ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. The meeting was resumed. We continue with the appearance, at our own request, of the President of the Government before the Plenary of the Congress of Deputies, pursuant to article 14 of Royal Decree 926/2020 of 25 October, declaring the state of alarm to contain the spread of infections caused by SARS-COV-2, to account for the data and actions of the Government in relation to the implementation of the latter. I give the floor to the President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, good morning. I compare, as the President has said, before the plenary of this House for the second time - the first was on 16 December 2020 - in compliance with article 14 of Royal Decree 926/2020 of 25 October, declaring the state of alarm to contain the spread of COVID-19. I compare to be accountable to you for the management of the Government of Spain during this period. In just over a year - the first official case detected of COVID-19 was on December 8, 2019 in China - the world has lost about 2.5 million people victims of COVID-19, a virus that has broken the pillars of what we believed in; a virus that has forced us to rethink many things: our consumption model, our life model; a virus that has taught us the supreme value of science and also of the unity of action; a virus that must also make us aware of the gravity of some of the emergencies, especially the climate, which we urgently have to face; a virus that has also reminded us of the importance of public services, of the welfare state; a virus, in short, which has shown us that the great challenges we had must be faced urgently and firmly. We have learned a lot about the virus, ladies and gentlemen, in these long months of pandemic, but we still have great uncertainties and we must recognise them. The world has created in record time effective vaccines against COVID-19, but we need to keep surveillance at maximum levels and continue to investigate to shut down the virus and its new variants. In the midst of this health, economic and social emergency - I have said it many times - the progressive coalition government has had only one option: firstly, to be guided by science and not by superstition; secondly, to mobilize all economic and social resources to deal with the pandemic and to seek unity at the international, European, national, autonomous, local level, at all levels, and ultimately to include in the unity to the maximum of the political and social actors available. That is what the Spanish Government has tried to do on all fronts, ladies and gentlemen, that is what Europe has also done, and that is what we need all over the world to give a multilateral response to a global challenge. Unity was not complete - it must be acknowledged - in many areas. It has not been, for example, at the international level, where one of the major powers - the United States, in this case - has distinguished itself from the guide of the World Health Organization, and yet it has been possible to have unity in the European area in a consistent way with the agreement reached last July 2020, and there are the fruits, in the vaccination campaign, for example, with centralised purchase, despite all the difficulties in the supply of the vaccine by some of the major pharmaceutical companies with which the supply of doses was contracted last year. And unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, unity was also not the rule at the national political level, despite the efforts made by the Executive and the constant appeals. It has been that unity with the social partners, and it has resulted, precisely, in seven agreements which I believe have guaranteed stability and certainty to workers and businesses. Yes, it did, but also with resistance because we were subscribing to this culture of co-governance in the autonomic and also in the local sphere, recognizing the contribution of the Spanish Federation of Municipalities and Provinces to that multilateral debate that we all owe in terms of co-governance in response to this pandemic, thanks, for example, to the conferences of presidents but also to the Interterritorial Health Council, but unity was resented between the forces and especially in this House. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, when we bend the last corner of the pandemic, when we turn to the right of the exit from this health, economic and social emergency, I would like to start my speech with an appeal to unity addressed to all the forces of this House, to the forces that have always supported the measures of the state of alarm and also to those who did not. After a year of health, economic and social crisis, after a long year of economic break, with social consequences and enormous ravages on the productive fabric and also on employment, Spanish society is exhausted and expects of human policy, responsibility and generosity. [[Applauds]] Society, in short, ladies and gentlemen, calls for unity and unity is what I come to ask of this House. The year 2020 - we have said it many times - will be remembered as the year of the pandemic, as the year of the COVID-19, the year of social distance, if I may, but also of emotional proximity, the year of applause on the balconies, the year of recognition to our health professionals, who will always be in our hearts and minds, that of our teachers. I was once told by the Minister of Education that, compared to what is happening in other countries of the world and also in Europe, very close to us, only 0.7 % of the incidence has occurred in the classrooms. That means a lot about the work of the educational community on all fronts. I would also like to thank the members of the State Security Forces and Corpses, the members of Civil Protection, the firefighters, the Armed Forces, the transporters, the workers of the supermarkets, the food sector, all those men and women who were there at the worst, in the front line of the fight against the virus. We have said this on many occasions, but I believe that it always, always, must always be in our guide and in our conduct of political action. Spain, ladies and gentlemen, has, as you know, deployed a social shield, in my opinion the largest in our country's history, because it has been an unprecedented challenge that we have had to address in this long year of pandemic. But in order to put it in economic terms, in terms of figures, up to EUR 200 billion we have mobilised in order to be able to deal with all the consequences of this pandemic. We did so, ladies and gentlemen, to save lives, to save jobs and to save businesses; we protected workers with ERTE; we helped self-employed people, families and businesses; we supported families that were already vulnerable before the pandemic and also those that became vulnerable with unprecedented measures in our democracy but also as necessary as the creation of minimum living income. Allow me to dwell on this point, ladies and gentlemen, because today I would like to make a new announcement to you in order to continue to protect the Spanish economy and also to ensure that our country continues to make progress. The first thing I would like to move is that economic recovery is a promise, a firm hope, with unprecedented economic means that make it real, effective and possible. They make it the basis on which to establish not only the immediate present but also the future of our country. The economic and social recovery also has to be emotional because when Spain - as it already begins to do - progresses with a solid and transformative growth not only will the pockets and the public coffers be recovered but also the spirit, spirit, hope and tranquility of the Spanish and Spanish. Please note that since the pandemic began and we declared the first state of alarm in March of last year, the Spanish Government has implemented measures and aid to companies, workers, self-employed persons and households equivalent - as I said earlier - to 20% of gross domestic product; I repeat, 20% in less than a year. A protection exercise never seen in the democratic history of our country. For an idea to be made, only the payment of salaries and contributions for workers in ERTE and the provision of self-employed persons amounts to some EUR 40.8 billion of direct aid. In addition, more than EUR 116 billion of ICO loans are being mobilised. Clearly, we could not allow viable companies to close or destroy jobs because of a crisis that we always knew would be temporary, such as a pandemic, and that would last only for as long as the virus lasted. In addition, the Government transferred more than EUR 24 billion to the autonomous communities in 2020, also in 2021, so that they could cope with health expenditure, educational expenditure and also inject direct aid into the most affected companies because, as the autonomous administration, they were better placed - not only from a competitive point of view but as a conviction that they were - to know what the impact of the restrictions on each territory was and therefore what compensation should be derived from it. More than EUR 24 billion is also transferred to the Autonomous Communities. According to the various international indicators, the public support measures adopted in Spain are aligned or even higher than the average of the rest of the European Union and have had a very positive impact in terms of preserving the financial stability of our economy. Thanks to this safety net we have managed to protect our productive fabric, employment and the incomes of families and we therefore have an already solid basis for economic recovery. As I have told you before, I would like to inform you of a measure that we are going to take in the coming weeks from the Government of Spain and that the Executive will shortly approve an additional package of EUR 11 billion for new actions for businesses, SMEs and self-employed workers. [[Applauds]] These EUR 11 billion, ladies and gentlemen, are a significant amount of resources to continue to support, during the hard weeks that we still have ahead to finally overcome the pandemic, sectors of the economy that grew before the pandemic, which were competitive before the pandemic and which are now, logically, in an extremely difficult and complex situation, such as the tourism sector, hospitality, restoration or small business, among others. It amounts to EUR 11 billion to strengthen the solvency of their balance sheets and can thus resume their economic activity, make the necessary investments and hire the workers who need to start economic recovery in full. This progressive coalition government, ladies and gentlemen, has the vocation not only to leave no one behind - we have said this on many occasions both from a social and territorial point of view - but we also have the ambition to always look forward. Not only do we want to save businesses, not only do we want to save jobs, we want to strengthen those businesses and jobs, we want to create new businesses and new jobs. We have an unequivocal vocation to continue to bend the contagion curve but also the economic crisis curve under two parameters that I would like to share with you and a premise. The parameters are as follows: firstly, the seriousness and sobriety in the public accounts and, secondly, the modernisation of our economy to create jobs, jobs and more quality jobs in the coming years. The premise is clear: never lower the guard. Never, we can't get her down, we haven't gotten through the pandemic yet. With the state of alarm decreed on 14 March 2020 and the responsibility of the citizenry, ladies and gentlemen, we managed to bend the first curve of the pandemic. Therefore - I have said it many times before you - I believe that Article 116 of our Constitution, the state of alarm, works to maintain and bend the curve of the virus. And yet, I think that with a certain perspective we could also be aware that we made a de-escalation in that first wave too fast, pressed by the need to reactivate the economy, to remedy the emotional fatigue that, after an unusual experience as was the confinement so hard that we did during the month of March last year, evidently suffered our society. Co-governance, which has worked well, ladies and gentlemen, in all areas, could have worked better - we have to recognise it too - in that first descalation. The second wave, which reached all of Europe after the summer, forces us to resort again to the state of alarm, this time decreed for six months and this time with greater protagonistism by the autonomous communities and co-governance. That state of alarm, which we approved on 25 October 2020, was supported by the majority of the House, although I must say that I would have liked much more unanimity than we had then because it would have been useful to better address the new stage of the pandemic. What has happened, which we can assume as a teaching of the successes and also of the collective mistakes that we have had over these long months of pandemic, must serve as an example to improve responses and also to avoid future failures. Prudence is now, ladies and gentlemen, a civic duty but also a political duty. We run the risk that the arrival of vaccines will relax us sooner and we will see ourselves in a fourth wave that we must avoid. We must all take the challenge of avoiding a fourth wave as our own. Ladies and gentlemen, as you know, this state of alarm is logically different from the one adopted on 14 March in the first wave of the virus. First for its duration, as I said in the first of the appearances aligned with this state of alarm, until 9 May. These six months of implementation are the estimated time, not only by the Government of Spain, by the health authorities but also by the experts, to overcome the situation we are going through. Secondly, together with that duration, it incorporates an express recognition that it will cease to apply immediately in the event that the emergency is overcome earlier. In the fourteen days - simply to recall some data - prior to its approval, our country recorded an accumulated incidence of almost 362 cases per 100,000 inhabitants in the fourteen days, the total number of deaths was 34,752, of which 655 were compatriots for the last week. The situation in Spain at that time was very serious, with an unstoppable upward trend and very worrying, and with the arrival of the change of season and the diseases associated with the winter's entrance we all saw how the hospital pressure increased to very critical limits. At that time we already had a greater diagnostic capacity, we had to recognize it, with more than a million PCR tests we did a week, and we also had a state strategy that drew up and approved the Interterritorial Council of the National Health System. In other words, the Spanish Government and the autonomous governments did their duty. And again the answer gave results to bend the curve. On 16 December in this House I explained that, thanks to the state of alarm and the strategy of containment of that second wave, we had been five consecutive weeks keeping the cumulative incidence down to 14 days. We moved from almost 530 cases per 100,000 inhabitants in 14 days in the first week of November to below 200 cases. With the arrival of Christmas, ladies and gentlemen, the third wave also came, with a great lesson, which once again we must humbly assume at a global level and is that in all the countries of our environment there was a significant upswing because of the Christmas holidays. Even in countries with lower incidence during the first two hours, such as Germany, the rate of contagion and also of the deceased was literally triggered. The guard should not have gone down then and therefore we cannot go down now. Spain currently has a cumulative incidence of 236 cases per 100,000 inhabitants in 14 days, a figure that we have managed to reduce by 62% in the last 14 days and the number of deaths amounts to 68,079 compatriots. The situation in Spain remains serious, there are in particular some territories where the cumulative incidence is significantly high, but the trend is downwards thanks to the measures taken. It is shown once again that the state of alarm works and that co-governance is working, which provides a repertoire of measures sufficient to bend the curve, but obviously they must be activated and also maintained. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to stress something very obvious to everyone and it is that in the face of any evolution of the virus, what the Government will do will be to reinforce, together with the Autonomous Communities, the restrictive measures and all those measures that are relevant. We did so, for example, on February 17, when we adopted a new ministerial order to prevent and control the spread of variants - the Brazilian, the South African - of COVID-19 in our country. This order dictates, as Minister Darias shared with her ladies and gentlemen, that all travellers from Brazilian and African airports keep a mandatory quarantine of ten days upon arrival in Spain and this period may be reduced to seven days if, after the initial quarantine of one week, a negative CRP is provided. The order entered into force, as you know, this very Monday, 22 February, with a duration of fourteen calendar days and with the option of being extended if deemed necessary by the health authorities. We all know that this is not an easy task, ladies and gentlemen, that the societies in which we live are very interconnected. We also know that the COVID-19 only needs a small wick to spread uncontrollably, but we do everything we have to do from the various public institutions. For example, the interterritorial council of 17 February, the day on which that order was adopted, also had the participation of the Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, Mr Planas. The aim of their presence was to strengthen the control between the different administrations in the face of the start of the new agricultural campaigns, which we saw in the past months of July and August, in the summer of 2020, which involved a wick that spread the virus in different territories of our country, thus detecting, with that participation of the ministry, the housing needs of temporary workers and the correct planning to prevent possible outbreaks in a sector as important to our country as is the agri-food sector. Ladies and gentlemen, I would not like to move forward without quantifying the government's management here. Since he appeared two months ago, 10 meetings of the Inter-Territorial Council of the National Health System have been held, 7 of them as of year. In total, since the beginning of the pandemic, 17 conferences of autonomous presidents, 239 conferences and sectoral commissions have been held, including 75 plenary sessions of the Interterritorial Council of the National Health System, 201 meetings of the Evaluation and Monitoring Committee and 59 meetings of the Technical Management Committee, including those of the Technical Committee on Descalation. In addition, this must be added to the 12 meetings of the Scientific Committee, which I personally chaired. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we are not going to deviate from our objectives, nor are we going to allow ourselves too much confidence. There is a road map for the Spanish Government which is summarized in three concepts: health, employment and social protection. We must therefore continue to work together until we achieve an incidence of less than 25 cases per 100,000 inhabitants in 14 days. I insist, in the battle against COVID there can be no truce. Never. We have to win day by day and, therefore, we must all be consistent in the implementation of health measures. As we face that third wave, ladies and gentlemen, we are also approaching the most hopeful stage of all, the beginning of the end of this pandemic, in a context in which the cases of COVID-19 are coming down not only in Spain and Europe, but throughout the world for five weeks. Like never before in this pandemic. Consequently, we are entering a new international order and we have a challenge as a country, joining as a society, strengthening ourselves in this final line of the pandemic, which is the process of vaccination and the process of economic recovery and social reconstruction. Therefore, we are facing a new phase and, therefore, I ask for what I offer, unity of all the parliamentary forces. I said earlier, ladies and gentlemen, that 2020 was the year of the COVID-19 pandemic and 2021 has to be - it will be, ladies and gentlemen - the year of vaccination and economic and social recovery. I'll start with the first point, the vaccination. Ladies and gentlemen, as is evident from a crisis of international magnitude, such as the one we are suffering from, it can only be addressed from a response with international involvement and the strengthening of all multilateral institutions. That is why the Member States of the European Union have developed the European Vaccination Strategy, to which Spain joined on 12 June 2020. To date, the European Commission, ladies and gentlemen, has signed contracts with six pharmaceutical companies for the acquisition of a total of 2265 million doses. As you know, this is AstraZeneca-Oxford, Sanofi-GSK, Janssen, Pfizer-Biontech, Curevac and also Moderna. Recently, the European Commission has made progress in negotiations with Novavax and Valneva, whose contracts could also facilitate the purchase of 200 and 60 million doses respectively. As far as our country is concerned, the Council of Ministers has authorized the acquisition of 126 million doses of five vaccines: more than 52 million doses of Pfizer-Biontech; more than 31 million doses of AstraZeneca-Oxford; more than 8 million doses of Moderna; about 21 million doses of Janssen, which you know is only one dose; and around 23.5 million doses of Curevac. Thus, a total of more than 136 million doses for a population of just over 47 million inhabitants. Beyond the purchase of doses, Spanish scientists and scientists are playing a key role in the manufacture of authorised vaccines and also in the development of new vaccines. Three Spanish companies are actively involved in the manufacture of vaccines from large pharmaceutical companies and, therefore, this is a source of pride for all and for all. For example, there is the company Rovi, which has installed a new production line at its plant in San Sebastián de los Reyes, near the city of Madrid, for the production of millions of doses of the Modern vaccine destined for the markets of the United States. Together with Rovi is Reig Jofre, who reached an agreement with a large pharmaceutical company, Janssen, for the technological transfer of the production of the VOCID-19 vaccine, currently pending approval. The pharmaceutical capacity is 250 million doses per year and could start manufacturing before summer in Sant Joan Despí, Barcelona. Alongside this, Insud Pharma, for its part, will perform in its plant very close to here, in the province of Guadalajara, in Azuqueca de Henares, part of the international production of the vaccine developed by AstraZeneca-Oxford. The company has been in charge of its filling and packaging since February. To strengthen this line of action, the Centre for Industrial Technological Development, the CDTI, has financed eleven company projects in Spain. The objective is to expand infrastructure, develop production capacities, also from vaccine packaging to VOCID-19 in both Spanish and international projects. In total, ladies and gentlemen, EUR 9.98 million has been mobilised, of which EUR 4.72 million is provided by the CDTI in the form of a grant. I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that we can be very proud of our research. Spanish science is also developing twelve new vaccines projects against COVID-19, three of which are coordinated by CSIC. Ten projects have already received funding of €7.8 million from the Ministry of Science and Innovation. All ongoing projects have developed a prototype or vaccine candidate and are carrying out the preclinical tests necessary to determine the validity of vaccines in animals. I would like to stress that there are five very hopeful projects funded by the Spanish public institutions. First, the one developed by the Mariano Esteban group, which has obtained very positive results in preclinical trials in mice, with a 100 percent efficacy in protection against SARS-CoV-2 infection. This vaccine is stable and can be stored and administered under advantageous conditions and, therefore, if the results are positive - we cross our fingers - phase 1 and 2 clinical trials in humans could be started soon. Secondly, there is the Luis Enjuanes project, which is in a phase of negotiation with several companies for the encapsulation of nanoparticles, as preclinical tests in mice progress. This would not enter clinical trials until June 2021. Thirdly, that of the group of Felipe García, of the Hospital Clínic. The production of its vaccine candidate is being developed in the Catalan company Hipra and could start phase 1 and phase 2 clinical trials in humans in the second quarter of the year. Fourthly, there is the Hipra project, based on an antigenic protein. The company has the technology and also the production capacity necessary and plans to carry out preclinical trials in animals shortly in order to be able to start phase 1 and phase 2 clinical trials in June this year. Finally, the project of the Buenaventura Clotet group, which has completed preclinical trials in animals with a hundred percent efficacy. [[IrsiCaixa]] It is in negotiations with different companies to agree on the production of its vaccine and to start phase 1 and phase 2 clinical trials. In short, ladies and gentlemen, they are vaccine projects that fill us with hope, optimism and great pride for the company and also for Spanish science and research. [[Applauds]] For its part, the Interterritorial Health Council has played a key role in managing this crisis. It has been the meeting space between public administrations in the co-governance forum. It was there last December, for example, that the autonomous communities of both signs agreed with the Ministry of Health on a vaccination strategy at the state level; an indispensable mechanism to protect the health of all citizens. This Strategy has since been updated three times, in order to define new priority population groups and incorporate new available vaccines. As you know, because it has been reported by the media in different ways, the priority groups that we have defined so far and that will continue to be updated as circumstances change are as follows. First, residents and health and social workers working in the homes of older persons and caring for the large dependents. Secondly, front-line health and social health personnel. Thirdly, other health or social health personnel carrying out activities requiring close contact with people who may be infected. Fourthly, people considered to be big dependents. Fifthly, people over 80 years of age. Sixthly, active collectives with an essential role for our society, such as State Security Forces and Bodies, Emergencies, Armed Forces, teachers and personnel of child education and special educational needs, teachers and personnel of primary and secondary education. Seventh, people between 70 and 79 years of age. Eighthly, people between 60 and 69 years of age and, ninthly, those under 60 years of age are at high risk of suffering from serious disease by COVID-19. And finally, with the AstraZeneca-Oxford vaccine, authorized in Spain for children under 55 years of age because this is the result of the clinical trials that the company has proposed, the rest will be for the healthcare staff and the age group between 45 and 55 years. Ladies and gentlemen, as I have told you before, obviously we are going through hard times, but joint efforts are beginning to yield results, and I would like to underline and put some figures that I believe are quite eloquent of the collective effort we are making and that we are deploying society and public administrations. Spain, ladies and gentlemen, is today the fourth country in the European Union in total number of doses administered, with more than 3.1 million doses, behind Germany, with 5.1 million doses; France, with 3.7 million doses and Italy, with 3.5 million doses. If we measure the average vaccination rate per 100 inhabitants, Spain is above these countries. Specifically, we occupy the thirteenth position in the European Union. The current rate of administration is about 540,000 doses per week. Until 17 February, 3622 165 doses of vaccines have been administered among the autonomous communities, 3165 191 doses have already been administered, or 87.4% of those received. Almost two million Spaniards have already received at least one dose. And from the Spanish Government we have set ourselves a very ambitious goal - I am aware - but necessary and possible. We have committed ourselves to reaching the target of 70% of the vaccinated population before the end of the summer. I am also convinced that the supply problems that have occurred in Europe in recent weeks will soon be overcome, especially with the new vaccines that are currently under way. Without going any further, we are thinking and estimate that Spain will receive the quadruple of vaccines in the next quarter. But our responsibility doesn't end here. In a pandemic that has paralysed the entire planet, some countries suffer more than others and, as public health is unquestionably global, our commitment to vaccination must also transcend borders, ladies and gentlemen. That is why the Council of Ministers approved on 19 January the Universal Access Plan, Solidarity Vaccination. What we are proposing, and we are defending it at European level, is that countries with the most difficulties can quickly access the vaccine. Since our status as a founding member of the ACT-Accelerator and part of its facilitation council, we will be giving priority to multilateral channels, such as the Covax partnership or the European Union's donation mechanism, and in recent months Spain has already committed EUR 50 million to GABI's Advanced Market Commitment, which is aimed at promoting vaccine production in the least developed countries. Ladies and gentlemen, as I have told you before, 2020 is going to be remembered for the year of the pandemic, the COVID, but we must also say that 2021 is going to be the year of the vaccination that will free us from the health nightmare that we have experienced in recent months and also the year of economic recovery. Economic recovery, ladies and gentlemen, is a certain, certain horizon. I understand that, in the midst of this thick fog, of this crisis, it is difficult to reach the end, but the exit is near. We are at the end of the health emergency and, consequently, also at the beginning of economic and social recovery. We are approaching recovery not only because the end of the pandemic is coming, but because we will have unprecedented means that will make it possible, real, effective. These unheard-of means, we could describe, make recovery a huge opportunity on which to lay our future for the country. They will remember that in the darkest moments of the pandemic a year ago, when it seemed to have no end and we could only ask the citizens resistance and social discipline, Spain demanded from Europe an unheard-of effort, a new Marshall plan, we said then. Well, that Marshall plan is here, that Marshall plan is quantified at more than €700 billion for the European Union as a whole, Spain will receive €140 billion in six years. In order for us to get an idea - as I have said to you on other occasions, ladies and gentlemen - the structural funds represented EUR 8 billion in six years and these are EUR 140 billion in six years - it is true that the gravity of the crisis justifies this - resources that go beyond what the whole of Europe received in the post-world war period. This economic and social recovery, as I said before, must also be emotional. And the engine of that recovery has a name, it's the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan in our country. It is the project I would say, ladies and gentlemen, of economic modernization, of more ambitious economic conversion in our country's economic history. We are working on this plan together with the European authorities in its implementation, and we have already begun to do so with the first meeting last week of the Inter-Ministerial Commission for Recovery, Transformation and Resilience, as well as with the creation of the technical committee to support that inter-ministerial commission. I have said on many occasions that this is a historic challenge, because we are also facing a historic moment, and managing EUR 140 billion from the Next Generation European Union Fund for Spain, from which we will be releasing almost EUR 80 billion in direct transfers over the next three years, will be the starting point for achieving this huge milestone. Ladies and gentlemen, the purpose is to grow, but to do so in another way; to grow by transforming, because precisely the rules and the international order have changed, as a consequence also of the pandemic. The path we are going to take is that of a Spain that has to be unequivocally more digital, more sustainable, more cohesive, more just and more feminist, and, ultimately, will mean a real revolution for our economy, in our way of life and also the achievement of a promising reality, which is economic recovery. These four transformations, mapped out and supported by Europe, fully coincide with our government agenda and with which I set out, as you will recall, when I presented the investiture programme, and will also define the action of the autonomous communities and the municipalities in the development of the plan. The purpose of these four transformations is one, to create the highest number of jobs, and the highest quality; to create solid, sustainable, quality and, of course, long-term jobs, thinking, above all, of the young people in our country, who are suffering unacceptable unemployment rates. The measures included in the plan will serve to reduce temporaryity, to facilitate the internal adjustment processes of companies and to invest in our public employment services. The plan aims to change the basis of our productive model in the medium and in the long term, but at the same time it will have a countercyclical effect of generating activity and employment in the short term. We are going to boost sectors with a high capacity to create quality jobs, such as sustainable building rehabilitation, urban mobility, the deployment of smart energy networks, the renewable energy park, the extension of broadband, the strengthening of green and water infrastructure, reforestation and biodiversity conservation in our country, the improvement of social services and also the boost to the care economy. Employment, ladies and gentlemen, is the foundation of any economic policy and is undoubtedly the main objective of the Government of Spain. And whenever I talk about employment, I mean quality and sustainable employment, not precarious employment, which unfortunately has been created in recent years. That is why I inform you that all calls for projects of the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan that will be carried out in collaboration with the private sector - industrial, digital, technological, energy projects - will have among their main criteria of eligibility the creation of quality employment. According to our estimates, ladies and gentlemen, the plan will create about 850,000 jobs in the next three years. And we're going to do all this without leaving anyone behind. We must protect the weakest, ladies and gentlemen, and create wealth at the same time, not only as much as possible, but also by redistributing to all spheres of our society. We cannot repeat an ultra-liberal obsolete model that proposed to concentrate wealth on 1% of the social pyramid so that sooner or later a part will reach the most disadvantaged. That model is unfair, and I think the pandemic has made it much more visible that it is inefficient, that it does not work. Retrieving a country in another way, leaving some untempered, is just doing half the job, and we must strive to do the full job, because everyone deserves the opportunity to live decently. [[Applauds]] Allow me, ladies and gentlemen, at this point, to speak of quality employment, I am referring, above all and especially, to training and education. There's no one without the others. Our clear objective is to promote the creation of skilled jobs - I said earlier - by promoting training, by promoting talent and also by attracting global talent, which has gone to us and also another foreign talent, to our country. What we have learned over the past few years is that in the medium term technology always creates more jobs, many of them also associated with the development, management and repair of the technologies being implemented. We are very aware, ladies and gentlemen, that programmers, mechanics or data scientists will increase in the immediate future. It is expected that the largest employment growth in the coming decades will be concentrated in sectors linked to health, technology, R & D & i, leisure and also entertainment, and this means that, with artificial intelligence and digitisation, the entire Spanish labour market, like that of the rest of the world, will be transformed. It will increase the number of jobs and, logically, the distribution of occupations and the organization of work will be different. Today we know, ladies and gentlemen, that the world is losing 23 million euros in GDP by not closing the gap between men and women. That is to say, if we achieve real and effective equality between men and women - I also say this in the week we started, when the unacceptable wage gap between men and women has become very eloquent and very visible - we would not only have fairer societies, but also much more prosperous societies. These losses are compounded by the failure to correct the intergenerational gap, to which he referred earlier, by the unacceptable youth unemployment rates. We must be aware that the advanced Spain will need more health personnel specialized in care, in older and dependent people, as well as profiles in psychology and guidance. Spain of the future, which is already Spain in which we are working in the present, will need more scientific staff, more engineers, more engineers, more renewable energy professionals, recycling, water management, building rehabilitation or sustainable food. And in this respect, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to share with you some of the information that has to do with qualifications and employment. Note that graduates in an intermediate vocational training cycle have almost 30% less unemployment than those in high school. Four years after obtaining an educational degree, the unemployment rate is 6 points lower in middle-grade FP graduates and 10 points lower in upper-level FP graduates than the unemployment rate in high-school graduates, according to the labour integration survey prepared by the National Institute of Statistics. This represents a huge opportunity, ladies and gentlemen, to reduce youth unemployment and to bet definitively, as we are going to do from the Government, as we are already doing from the Government, on vocational training. In this regard, ladies and gentlemen, on 22 July we presented the Plan for the modernisation of vocational training 2020-2023, with the aim of turning personal training into a lever for economic growth and the creation of youth employment, with three main lines: the first, the recognition and accreditation of professional competences. Ladies and gentlemen, 48 %, that is, almost half of the working population, more than 11 million people, does not have a formal recognition of their competences, having been trained through practice. The aim, therefore, is to establish in record time, i.e. in four years, the competences of 40% of this population under fifty-five, which is equivalent to more than 3.3 million people. I mean, what we were doing in ten years, we're going to do in four years, and that's going to be very good for the employability of a lot of workers in our country. [[Applauds]] The second is the relaunching of vocational training both in the education system and in continuing vocational training for employment, making it more flexible and more accessible. It is planned, ladies and gentlemen - I also said this in the investiture speech - to create in the next four years 200,000 new places of vocational training, in a training catalogue that has to be renewed, because the demands of the labour market have changed radically, in order to respond accordingly to these needs and to ensure that the lack of trained human capital does not become a burden for growth, the improvement of competitiveness and employability. Thus, vocational accreditation, vocational training and, thirdly, the incorporation of digitalisation, innovation and entrepreneurship into the vocational training system. Among the actions proposed are the following: firstly, the implementation of a digitalisation module applied to the productive sector for the unemployed and employees who will train 125 000 people annually over the next four years and the incorporation of a digitalisation module applied to the productive sector in each and every one of the vocational training qualifications. I would also like to recall, ladies and gentlemen, that the Government, within the framework of the Digital Spain 2025 strategy, has already promoted the National Artificial Intelligence Strategy, the 5G Technology Impulse Strategy, the Plan for Digital Connectivity and Infrastructures and the Entrepreneurship Nation Spain Strategy. And along with these plans, we have presented three more: first, the National Plan of Digital Competencies; second, the Plan of Digitalization of SMEs 2021-2025 and, third, the Plan of Digitalization of Public Administrations. Ladies and gentlemen, employment, employment and employment, improving our well-being and the transformation our country deserves. Look, ladies and gentlemen, at those who are old enough to do so, I ask you to remember the magic of 1992. When the Olympic Games and the Expo de Sevilla were held in Spain, with the opening of the first line of high speed Madrid-Sevilla, the Spaniards who were born in those years were barely beginning their adolescence when the crisis broke out in 2008. The COVID-19 crisis has caught them trying to start an adult life, and we must recognize that an entire generation has had to assimilate uncertainty, a generation that knows only survival, into a continuous crisis. If an idea is repeated in the head of all those young people, it is that of 'everything that costs them everything'. It is difficult for them to develop in their territory, it is difficult for them to find a job and they also perceive stable work as a sort of luxury; it is difficult for them to access decent housing, it is difficult for them to develop a personal life, to emancipate themselves and, in addition, the decision to be mothers and fathers is increasingly delayed. And this, ladies and gentlemen, has to change, it has to change if we want to transform Spain and if we want our country to move forward, because we cannot draw a future of progress on the sacrifice of our younger generations. In this regard, I would like, if I may, to convey my gratitude, on behalf of the entire Government, to the young people for their behaviour. Often the media, ladies and gentlemen, point out, denounce some irresponsible conduct by some young people, and they are true, but that is not, much less, the standard of conduct of our young people. [[Applauds]] It is true that it is easier to contain, maintain distances and even remain isolated from a certain age, but it is much more difficult to do so with the vigor of youth, and yet the vast majority of our young people have done so, and have done so more out of responsibility to their elderly, vulnerable, than out of their own health. And that must also be said and recognized. Ladies and gentlemen, the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan, this possible future for Spain, I would say, ladies and gentlemen, would be nothing without the General Budgets of the State that have started on the first day of 2021 and that will involve concrete actions to transform the economy of our country in a real way; public accounts that are aligned with the priorities and strategies of the plan; budgets that have received maximum plurality of support, up to eleven different political parties. In the history of our democracy, I do not think there is as much plural support as the one that has received these accounts. Budgets are our great lever of change, the lever for a transformation I would say real, and they amount to a total of EUR 239 billion to combat the effects of the pandemic and to shield our welfare state. This unprecedented social investment includes, for example, the largest share of scholarships, increases the policy to combat child poverty by 59%, in addition to the minimum living income, allocates 3 billion euros for the consolidation of that minimum living income, strengthens the unemployment benefits by more than 4 billion, equalizes the paternity and maternity leave in sixteen weeks - I think this is a collective success also of your lords -, allocates 180 million euros to the prevention of male violence, increases the health policy by 75.3%, firmly committed by our young people, increases the housing policies by 25%, those of culture - which is a very damaged sector, as we all know - by 26%, allocates 11 million euros to tasks also very important to our democracy, as we saw yesterday precisely with 23 February, as is the democratic memory, and, without a doubt, also does justice with our older generations by increasing non-contributory pensions. In short, we are putting an end to the pandemic thanks to vaccination, we are protecting the most vulnerable families, we are supporting jobs, companies, the self-employed, now we are going to inject, ladies and gentlemen - I want to repeat it again - EUR 11 billion more to continue to reactivate our economy and we are projecting the country we want to be, the Spain we want, which is Spain, in short, which the Spanish deserve. I think we have reason to look to the future with confidence and hope. Spain, ladies and gentlemen, is an admirable country and deserves us to do so. Spain deserves, after the greatest calamity of this century, that this be the legislature of recovery and also of the modernization of our economy. Ladies and gentlemen, just over a year ago I presented a country project to get the support of this House, to unlock in 2019, after five electoral processes, the governance of the country, to be invested president and to address the challenges of Spain, ultimately to put real solutions to the real problems of the real people. We wanted to do many things, and in reality, the management of this pandemic has required us to do many more and address them with greater care and determination. And on this point I would like to acknowledge the work of the two parliamentary groups and that of each and every one of the ministers and ministers of the Government of Spain, both of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and of the United States. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, this year 2021, in which we will leave this health drama behind with vaccination and embark on economic recovery, will also be a turning point, and at this point I would like to return to my initial appeal, as unity in this House was not the norm throughout 2020, a very hard year, and ask you to at least stick together the exit line of the pandemic and the start of economic recovery and social reconstruction. We owe it to all the citizens of our country, to whom we serve, to whom we owe. They do not take into account the vote when maintaining hygiene measures or social distance. Health care providers, police officers, basic service employees do not attend to the political colour to assume and deploy their obligations. We can exchange criticisms, criticisms - I am convinced that we are going to do so once again from this rostrum throughout this morning - but let us try not to poison the social atmosphere, that they do not distill hatred, that they do not bring discouragement or that there is no strength for a purpose that we all share, which is to overcome the crisis and undertake recovery. We need the energy of all, of all, ladies and gentlemen. There's more to anyone's hate. Everything is possible from unity and nothing, on the other hand, is built from division and resentment. The Government, with the unity of all, or of all who want to contribute at least to the action of the Government, with the help of all, or all who want to join, will continue to work for Spain to move forward, to overcome this painful trance of the pandemic and to take its rightful place in Europe and the world. Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Prolonged applause by the ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-In Communal Podemos-Galicia in Communal and the members of the Government,]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u3	Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups will then speak. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Casado Blanco has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u4	Thank you, Madam President. I would like to begin by recognizing yesterday's success in commemorating, under the presidency of his Majesty, King Philip VI, the 40th anniversary of the triumph of Spanish democracy in the face of the coup d'état of 23-F. And I have to regret the absences in this act and condemn the unacceptable statements of some radical independenceist groups in this House, some of which are part of the Government, and some of which have led to a very serious blow to legality three years ago in Catalonia. I want to highlight the performance of Don Juan Carlos I, who was instrumental in aborting the asonada, and the courage of Adolfo Suárez, who represented the entire Spanish people united in defending the Constitution and freedoms. [[Applauds]] As today, forty years ago the king gathered in Zarzuela the main political leaders: Suárez, Fraga, González, Carrillo and Rodríguez Sahagún. A few days later, they shared banners in a massive demonstration of unity under the slogan 'For Freedom, Democracy and the Constitution'. These three words are the guidelines of a history of success and reconciliation which began in 1975 and which reaches today, but they are also the red line which, if transferred, causes death to democracy, in Ziblatt's concept. Spain is built thanks to those who are represented in the statues and pictures distributed by this Parliament and against those who shot this Chamber and the terrorists who killed us for forty years and the radicals who sow violence today on the streets of our cities, thrown away, unacceptablely, by parties present in the Council of Ministers. Four decades ago, concord was possible because the memory of our country's history was present. It was well known what had been the cause of so many previous failures: radicality, polarization, arbitrary use of power, denial of dialogue, hatred of the adversary and even political violence, ultimately believing that it was better the victory of one half of Spain over the other, instead of meeting and living together in a common space. It was not easy in 1981 and it will not be in 2021, but there is no other formula to make this old nation move forward. To the nostalgics of the two Spains I remind them that a military member of the Regime like Gutiérrez Mellado was the symbol of the defense of freedom on that same ladder or that an exile, she did, as Dolores Ibarruri previously occupied a prominent place in this same Table. We have already dialogued, already reconciled, already fixed the rules of the game, already made Spanish democracy and already made possible the coexistence of all those who want to live together. We don't have to do it again, we just have to keep it; we don't get asked too much. There was neither lock nor will there ever be for the sovereign will of the Spaniards. In addition, we now have three basic anchors: the political one, of the Constitution; the economic one, of the European Union; and the security one, of the Atlantic Alliance, that make up our seat belt. Not by chance, extremists are now talking about a lack of democratic quality, raising internal borders and exiting the euro or failing to meet our commitments to NATO. Ladies and gentlemen, each generation must face its own responsibility in defending freedom and progress in Spain. It is not just a reminder of history, but also a reminder of it, and a reminder of it. In 1979, Adolfo Suárez called the first democratic elections, in 1989 Felipe González assumed the European Presidency for the first time, in 1999 José María Aznar managed to found the euro. However, in 2009 José Luis Rodríguez Zapatero left an economic devastation and an agenda of moral and territorial division that broke that path and in 2019 Pedro Sánchez dedicated himself to the exhumation of Franco and to pact with the Batasuns and independenceists, who yesterday asked to overthrow the 78th Regime, as if they could confine the constitutionalist majority in a social lazaretto and with another political health cordon. [[applause]] And in the middle of these two black stages, Mariano Rajoy managed to avoid Spain's bankruptcy, and he did so successfully. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u5	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u6	Two of these presidents interrupted the direction of the Transition and the consequences we are all paying for, but the other four continued the path begun in the Constitution, with successes and mistakes, and left a country clearly better than they found. Central, centre-left and centre-right politicians, alternating in the Government and pushing the country for the same purpose, compatible with political pluralism, managed to ensure that legitimate party disputes took place in a state of European law and prosperity, not in an invertebrate country, with weakened institutions, international irrelevance and economic depression. For example, during the years of the People's Party government, one job was created for every six votes received. In all that time no one challenged the rules of the game from within, because they preferred to be opposition in the system we had built together, rather than being government in another. Mr Sánchez, this is the amendment to the whole of your management. You lead the most radical and confrontational government in the last forty years, they no longer deny it or their own ministers; you ask here for unity, but you don't have it in you. It places power in its pact with extremists, at the cost of straining our democratic coexistence to social fracture, economic bankruptcy and institutional degradation. They had never sent so many who want to destroy Spain, and they say it publicly, as the fugitive Puigdemont, whom you promised to bring to Spain, but it is we who have worked to withdraw his immunity, or as the albaceas of ETA, who are in the direction of the State, to condemn the murder of 850 innocent people. However, constitutionalism had never been weaker and the rights and freedoms of the Spanish had never been more unprotected. That is the agenda that has moved him since he arrived, not on the horse of Pavia, as War against Suárez - that time was not pink - but on a motion of censure with only 84 seats; look, 5 less than the People's Party now has. Since then, not only has the productive fabric and our international reputation been damaged, but also our rule of law for the abusive use it has made of the right of exception. Today you appear here to report an unprecedented and unusual six-month state of alarm, but don't even put it to the vote, even if the balance sheet is demolishing. On 29 October, 173 Spaniards died because of COVID, but 443 died yesterday. According to official statistics, the victims of COVID were then 35,600, but today they are almost twice as many, and the reality they hide is even worse, since the dead already amount to 90,000, the infected to 3 million and the economic and social repercussions are terrible: there are already 5 million unemployed, 2 million families in the queues of hunger and 1 million households with all their unemployed members. None of that you said here today. A year ago he hid international alerts and, according to a study by the University of Zaragoza, the delay in taking measures cost the lives of 23,000 Spaniards and the recommendation not to wear masks in the first wave, many thousands more. I hope that the prosecution will be able to investigate the dozens of claims and complaints of health professionals and victims' families and that it will not block a parliamentary commission of inquiry when the pandemic is over. Nine months ago Mr Sánchez declared the virus overcome recklessly and for electoral reasons - all a deja vu of today - and since then he has used the autonomies as mockers, abandoning them in the second and third waves, and Europe as a capo to justify the delay in vaccination. And then what good do you and your government do? Unlike other groups on both sides of this House, we are Europeanists and autonomists, especially when we are the only counterweight to a bad government like yours. Therefore, we denounce the arbitrariness with which they have treated the autonomous communities governed by the People's Party: with the state of alarm in Madrid, with the curfew in Castile and León, with the electoral limitations in Galicia, which contrast with the Catalan campaign to the measure of the PSC or the bar free to the nationalist demands. [[Applauds]] We do not understand why they have rejected throughout this year our offer to make a legal framework for pandemics that the same article 12 of the Organic Law of the state of alarm advises us to use for prolonged periods, as you are reporting here today. Nor do we understand why it has rejected our offer of a state pact for the health, research and care of the elderly. In time he is to fall off the horse and get to work on it, as we remain in the Reconstruction Commission, whose conclusions have left him dead. Mr Sánchez, as a left-wing man like Semprún recommended, I am not asking for a turn to the right but to the reality of the country. The Spaniards are having a very bad time; they will thank you for more humility, more sensitivity and more empathy on your part. In our society there is growing a climate of tiredness and disappointment over politics because of incompetence in management and the impossibility of reaching agreements, and that only benefits the populists. If the political center is compressed by the extremes, in that revolted river only the radicals win and lose all the Spaniards; stop making waves. Our economy is the most affected by the pandemic in the European Union, with a fall in GDP and the deficit of 11%, a public debt of 117% and a loss of 100 000 enterprises, 300 000 self-employed, 600 000 jobs and 900 000 ERTE. If we do not act urgently, an entire generation will be condemned to live worse than their parents, the same generation that has barely known the good times of Spain and that has been the pagan of the two crises that the last Socialist governments have left behind. It is unacceptable for the Government to say that the consequences of the pandemic will be paid by our children and grandchildren. On the contrary, reforms must be promoted to prevent the burden of debt from applying the future of young people. There is still no light at the end of the tunnel and most of his Government's proposals delay the exit, such as the repeal of educational reform, employment, pensions, proposing tax increases, debt forgiveness, increasing political spending, energy costs and involving private companies and housing. Last week the new Prime Minister of Italy, Mario Draghi, said that a timely reform does not question the authority but reinforces it. I don't know what you're waiting for to do and what you're hiding in Spain from those plans that you've already explained in Brussels. Either lie here or lie there, but we'll end up knowing soon enough. Still, I continue to offer you our economic shock plan to lower taxes and also lower bureaucracy, increase labour flexibility and also increase direct liquidity to SMEs and self-employed people, especially in the devastated sectors, such as tourism and hospitality. Not enough 11 billion, at least 50,000 are needed. It has entrusted everything to the vaccination, which has been complicated, and to the reconstruction funds, which are not guaranteed, and has crossed hands, but it should not wait for others to solve the problems and it should foresee that after the German elections the situation can get worse. As the President of the Bundestag has already warned, no money will be given until the reforms have been implemented, which are to create sustained employment, not to waste on a new plan, to buy wills and to ruin those who come behind. Remember that the European Union is not a neutral club but is founded against nationalism and populism, just what its Government represents. In order to assure our European partners and the markets, we offered them in July, September and December to agree on the national reform plan, compliance with the specific recommendations and the creation of an independent authority for the transparent, effective and honest management of European funds. It is still in time to accept it, for we have registered it as a proposal for a law, and to publish at once the report of the Council of State, which they hide in order to save the decree that allows them to distribute the aid, without parliamentary or administrative or judicial control, with a clientelism that can result in corruption. Mr Sánchez, remember a Social Democrat like Bernstein when he criticized the deadly illusions of those who consider themselves left-wing and end up in disasters on the workers' backs. A country needs strong institutions to achieve economic prosperity, and that is why it is essential that it ceases from the Government those who attack the monarchy, justice, the State Security Forces and Bodies, the free press; that it ceases those who defend self-determination, justify ETA and question the quality of our democracy. [[Applauds]] It simply cannot be tolerated. Moreover, it is essential to regain the central role of Parliament and to strengthen the independence of all constitutional bodies and regulators, even more so when the international reputation of the Government is greatly deteriorated and so neither Calviño nor Playa nor Duque have been elected in their respective candidatures, nor Borrell is being respected as the European High Representative. As an example, a button: the new President of the United States has already spoken to twenty-five world leaders, but not you, and your Secretary of State has contacted forty-three foreign ministers, but not yours. That is what your Government weighs for the world's first power. Ladies and gentlemen, a new start is needed for Spain, an agenda for a new majority with ambitious goals and bold reforms to achieve them, for families to regain confidence in the future, for pensioners to regain calm, for young people to be able to fulfil their dreams, for the self-employed to be able to get back on their feet, for health to be strengthened after COVID, for education to be a social lift and not an instrument of social engineering, for administration and business to be modernised within the framework of the digital revolution and sustainability. We must get to work to help heal the wounds caused by the pandemic; older, young and women are the most suffering from the crisis. Opportunities must be given to those who have become new poor and the growing inequality in our society must be alleviated. That will be the best vaccine against populism and radicalism, which degrade our country and which its Government is feeding. That new beginning, that national agenda, must aim to achieve a Nobel Prize in Science in the coming years and several national universities among the best in the world, and full technical employment, and reverse the demographic winter in depopulation, and reduce to half the school failure - why not -, and move towards a horizon of zero violence against women, zero bullying against children, zero addictions in our adolescents and zero loneliness of our elders. Let us propose shared goals, projects suggestive of common life, as forty years ago, in the Transition, when we were able to implement an unprecedented agenda of political, economic and social reforms that have transformed our country to this day. The Law for Political Reform laid the right path, and it was not the easy path. Nor is it for those of us who choose not to be dragged away by the whirlwind of polarization and radicality that pollutes Spanish politics. It is no coincidence that the Pacts of La Moncloa will be called the Sanitation and Reform Programme and were the pillars on which the Constitution was established. Fuentes Quintana summed up his point by saying that it was about preventing Spain from moving away from the European economic and political core of which he wanted to become a party. Unfortunately, that is just the opposite of what the Government is doing. The alternation of the centre-right and centre-left was the attraction pole of the vast majority of the country and managed to lead the extremes to irrelevance, both on the left and on the right. The radicals fired their hatred in attacks or in this very Chamber, but the Democrats wrote their agreement in the Magna Charter exhibited in the next room. [[Applauds]] The triumph of reformism and moderation was possible after many failures, many defeats, many moments when their enemies seemed to be about to overcome. I am very clear about that teaching; the open, moderate and reformist society in which I believe and which my party represents is not a gift from history but a conquest of the best politics, and it is neither achieved nor preserved without reaffirming itself in it in the face of every setback. I especially reaffirm myself today because I do not want another way or another destination for Spain, I do not seek any vote that I do not seek to live with. I did step forward and I won't take any backs. Mr President - I finish already - I told you in your investiture that the task that you and I must share is to widen the space of moderation and make it so great that we can both win within it. I have already done my part, aware of the short-term cost but convinced that Spain needs a centrist, Europeanist, humanist, constitutionalist and liberal project that will soon be the majority in order to overcome the economic recession, the social, generational and territorial fracture that we suffer. Today, forty years ago, we all share the same banner together: In defense of democracy, freedom and the Constitution. I am speaking in plural, because although I was born in 1981, I am an heir to that formidable generation that bequeathed us the best Spain in history and because I firmly believe in the canoeing principle of coming to continue the history of Spain. Let us leave behind the nightmares to start dreaming in the best Spain, the future of the nation is in our hands. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause of the Members of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, stood up]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u7	Thank you very much, Mr. Casado. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the VOX parliamentary group, Mr Abascal Conde has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u8	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Sánchez, in March we told him that Spain should be protected but that Spain could not stop. Since then, for negligence or for the sake of power, you have done quite the opposite, you have unprotected Spain: neither tests nor breathers nor masks nor vaccines have arrived in time, all your management in this matter has been chaos. And, in addition, you have paralyzed, arrested and frozen Spain with massive confinements that have been useless, with counterproductive curfews, with closures and with totally arbitrary prohibitions. You, Mr Sánchez, as much as you have said in this speech, have only brought death, ruin, division and now violence. You have not protected Spain from the Chinese virus, which comes from China and spread throughout the world between concealments and for which one day China will have to pay to the entire international community. And what is perhaps worse, because of its arbitrary measures in Spain it retreats into economics, retreats into sovereignty, retreats into coexistence and retreats into freedoms. Millions of Spaniards who are listening to us today are paying with their health or with their pocket each and every one of the misdeeds that this government has committed since March and many more, ladies and gentlemen, will pay for it in the future. [[applause]] That is why, in October, we tabled a motion of censure against you and your Government, although some, ill-advised, wanted to become protagonists and victims of that motion, and they did so. [[Applauds]] A motion of censure that fundamentally warned the deputies of this House of the consequences that would bring to Spain the continuity of its government: more ruin, more disease and violence. And we haven't failed, we haven't failed at all, Mr. Sanchez. We would have liked to be wrong; all of you knew we were right, but for different interests - and none of them patriotic - preferred the continuity of this government of ruin, death, the cutback of freedoms and violence rather than supporting a motion of censure that promised to return the word to the Spaniards and call elections. Perhaps we should offer this House the possibility of a second motion of censure so that some Members can redeem themselves from their gigantic responsibility to the Spanish. [[Applauds]] And now we are in these, Mr Sánchez, or rather, in these are the Spaniards. While you are ruining the economy, while you are evading your abusive taxes, now to the self-employed, while you are wasting millions of euros from the Spaniards to pay 56% more to the unions and for all their ideological and sectarian causes, while all this happens, you dare to promote very serious riots, attacks on the police, looting of shops, and there is fear among the population. Barrios throughout Spain have been suffering from the violence that this government of Sánchez e Iglesias promotes and supports in writing, justifies and tolerates the Generality of Catalonia, which has also done so throughout the Catalan electoral process against the party I represent. And on top of that, they have the futility to justify violence from the government in the name of freedom. When the Spanish have suspended their fundamental rights to circulate, to work, with curfews, they dare to justify violent mobilizations and looting in the name of freedom of expression. All that, ladies and gentlemen, with 100,000 dead and almost a million new unemployed; one million, we're just talking about numbers. This is a photograph of this morning on a street in Madrid: one more stop from the resourceless hospitality. [[shows a photograph]] This is your work, Mr. Sánchez, this is your and Mr. Iglesias's work. But not one of those unemployed, not one of the families of one of the victims of the coronavirus that you have so badly managed, nor one of the families that you have prevented from saying goodbye to your family members has burned a single container. The Spanish have behaved peacefully and decently, and you now come to justify violent mobilizations and crimes in the name of the freedom of expression of a violent type, of the freedom of expression to defend the violence in verse. Do you want to do something for freedom, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party and of Podemos, ladies and gentlemen of the Government? Let street terrorists be discouraged, stop justifying yourselves, stop violence. [[applause]] That would be an extraordinary step. Stop sponsoring violence, stop justifying it, and some of you respect electoral processes. They have not respected the elections and have not respected the electoral processes. Of course, they have had to check how precisely those who incite and participate in violence against VOX in Catalonia today have fewer votes in Catalonia than those who have VOX. [[Applauds]] They allow the security forces, the National Police Corps, the Mossos d'Esquadra to do their job and dissolve these violent mobilizations. They have the resources to do so and to dismantle from a feather all that network of urban terrorism of registered individuals, absolutely all, and that would not last a minute on the streets if you allowed to defend legality and defend the order and law to the Police and the Mossos d'Esquadra. [[Applauds]] You won't, you won't, because you don't want to be told not to defend the freedom of a criminal, but you don't believe in freedom of expression; for you it's never what you're told, for you the important thing is who says it. You claim that a hijacking is a crime, but arming terrorists, if it's in verse, is freedom of expression. And I wonder: will you allow criminals and psychopaths disguised as artists to encourage all kinds of violence in verse? Of course, not only against the police, against the Civil Guard, against the Crown or against the right. Do you want to allow it to defend itself against jihadist terrorism? Can anti-communist terrorism, which does not exist, be held in reverse? Have you gone completely crazy? Why is this government silent? It is a rhetorical question, it is silent for its support, which is there, a few lines above, which have been the protagonists of violence on my land for so long, and for the members who sit on the Council of Ministers. [[Applauds]] And all of this is told to the government as a whole: while one minister or one spokesman for the groups that support the government justifies the violence, as long as that happens, each and every one of you, who sit on the blue bench, are accomplices to the violence, and all those who negotiate with you and all those who divide the judges with you are accomplices in robbing the freedom, tranquillity and order of the Spaniards. [[Applauds]] Of course there is a democratic anomaly in Spain, ladies and gentlemen! The democratic anomaly is you, because you do not believe in freedom of expression, because you go by the hand of terrorists, coups and all kinds of national and international criminals. That is why there is nothing to be agreed with you, and that is why from this group we will continue to maintain an infinite distance with this Government. And you know what? You burn the streets simply out of anger, because you can no longer walk through them, because you can't go out on the street, especially some members of the government, and look into the eyes of the Spaniards. You can't go out on the street and listen to what the Spaniards have to say. And you don't go to the street, not because it threatens you with any violence - thank God - you don't go to the street because it threatens you with shame and dishonor. [[Applauds]] And they still want to continue to test the patience of the Spaniards, it seems that they have not yet realized that, when the Spanish people get tired, they massively go out to the streets peacefully, democratically, respecting the health security measures to enforce the law to their representatives, as happened in May in those mobilizations that were prelude to the end of the confinement, so that they forced the democratic and peaceful mobilizations of the Spaniards. I already know that you believe that you are far above the laws, that you believe that you are unpunished thanks to your media power, cultivated through blackmail and subsidisation, through the latrocinion of Spanish taxes. I know that they believe they are unpunished by the fraudulent state of alarm and they are counting on the complicity of the Constitutional Court, which insults fifty-two Members of this House and insults the entire House by not answering a unconstitutional appeal about the current state of alarm and the previous one. [[Applauds]] We already know that you believe that you are unpunished by your control over the governing body of the judges. Really, Mr. Casado, what a weak favor you are doing, what a weak favor you are doing to your party and what a weak favor you are doing to Spain saying that you want to agree with Pedro Sánchez, as if it were something different than agreeing with Pablo Iglesias, as if it had not been Pedro Sánchez who today, in a message perhaps addressed to his own party, defended the unity of his government, as if it were not Pedro Sánchez who sat his vice president next door, as if it had not been Pedro Sánchez who has agreed with Bildu and with Esquerra Republicana de Catalunya. [[applause]] [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]] That being said, Mr Sánchez and Mr Iglesias, the Spaniards will sooner or later enforce the law and have them answer to the courts. VOX is going to do everything possible to make it that way, and I have to tell you that when we tried, we didn't get hurt. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u9	Thank you very much, Mr. Abascal. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Echenique Robba has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u10	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, and members of the government. Mr President, just over two months ago I had the opportunity to address you from this rostrum and gives the impression that it was at another time. We live in times when in a couple of months it seems like years have passed. Therefore, we have no choice but to periodically redraw the maps so that we don't get lost and hit the road. That is what I am humbly going to try to do today in my speech: draw some elements of the new map that we can think of in Unity. First of all, vaccines. The last time I addressed you from this rostrum had not yet arrived in Spain any doses of any vaccine. This Monday we had already delivered an accumulation of more than 3.6 million doses of three different vaccines, 85% of those vaccines had already been supplied and almost 1.2 million people had received the full schedule. It is clear that vaccines lead us to start a new and hopeful time with regard to the epidemic, but we must also make, as you, Mr President, very well, an appeal for prudence. Not in vain the last time I addressed you everything seemed to indicate that we had doubled the second wave and, however, in the few days we already looked with apprehension at a third wave much more virulent. With this prudence simply, it must be recognized that the vaccination plan is being a success, only overshadowed, unfortunately, by a handful of corrupt people who have skipped their tails. But, despite them, at the moment, as the president has explained very well, Spain has supplied more doses of the per capita vaccine than France, Italy or Germany, and there is no autonomous community that has seriously delayed from the others. I think this speaks objectively very well of the work of the coalition government, of the strength of our public health despite the cuts of the PP and the advantages of having a decentralized state, and I think we need to be proud. Many times the Spaniards have an inferiority complex that I have always believed to be unjustified. I think we do a lot of things right, and in the vaccination plan we're proving it. Secondly, and in the face of the cries of criticism that we have heard before from Mr Casado, I believe that it is just and useful to note - and that is the case in the Journal of Sessions - that the position of the Government when we defended the state of alarm there in December was the correct one. Today, it seems clear that setting the deadline for completion on 9 May was the most sensible thing. It has also been shown with facts that the decentralized design of this second state of alarm has been sufficient to double the second and third wave with surgical measures taken by the autonomic governments, without re-centralizing the command and without dictating generalized confinements. On the negative side - I think it is very important to tell the truth at this point - we should already have learned that the logic of saving summer or saving Christmas is not only perverse as it conveys to the citizen the false obligation to choose, in a sort of blackmail, between the economy or health, the bag or life, but also that it is a logic that does not work; it does not work, this is evident, and now we have seen it with pain after two new waves of the epidemic, but it would be to take people as an idiot not to recognize that it was evident from the beginning. I open quotes: 'It is very clear that if one does not take restrictive measures in time, the epidemic is out of control and more decisive measures must be taken later, which cause even more serious damage to the economy'. I close quotes. These are my own words from this rostrum in October last year. You don't have to be a genius to realize. This is what has happened to tourism, hospitality, nightlife and very small business. They were told that saving the summer was saving them, and that caused the second wave and they had to close. They were told that saving Christmas was saving them, and that caused the third wave and they had to close again. We already know that acting like this does not work, and it was obvious from the beginning. However, today there are autonomous governments, such as Ayuso, who continue to play this perverse logic with their population and their productive fabric. That the Community of Madrid, which has the worst hospital numbers in Spain, is considering removing restrictions faster than anyone else and continuing to offer its hoteliers choice between the bag or life is an enormously irresponsible strategy. And all I can think of is an explanation: they don't want to pay direct aid. Of course, if you are not willing to help businesses that lose billing, you only have to open up too quickly and put the population at risk. But there is another option: to take restrictive measures as strict as is necessary to bend the curve and, at the same time, to implement effective aid for the businesses concerned. This is what we can think about, Mr President, and if the autonomous communities do not give aid, the Spanish Government must do so. That's what Germany has done, that's what we have to do here, and that's why we are celebrating the announcement you made today from the House of Representatives. And above all, above all, let us not start, please, talking about saving Holy Week; let us not start talking about saving Holy Week because we all know that that means fourth wave, more dead and more business closures. I have no doubt, Mr President, that if the autonomous communities do not eliminate the restrictions too quickly, if we continue the excellent performance of the vaccination plan and continue to improve in detection and tracing we will defeat this damn epidemic. I don't doubt it. It is in this sense that the arrival of the vaccine also opens a new era in terms of public policies and government action, because when the virus has been defeated the deep economic crisis will continue here and people will judge the coalition government for its response to it. And that answer only depends on us, Mr President, on the UN Podemos, on the PSOE and on our parliamentary partners, because in front of you, Mr President, I fear there is no one. Because another thing that has happened in these little more than two months is the Catalan elections, and there has also been a change of era, this time in politics. First, in Catalonia, where we have moved from having a majority of seventy-four seats to having a progressive majority of eighty-three. The election result, in addition to a endorsement by the Catalan people of the coalition government, implies the possibility for the first time in a long time to form a left-wing Government of the Generalitat. I hope, comrades of Republican Left, we do not miss this opportunity. But the Catalan elections also have an impact on the state and draw if not a completely new era in Columbus' photo, but an important intensification of the existing dynamics. If before the Catalan Citizens elections it was a slow decadent party, it has now directly broken apart, and there is already openly talk of a hostile OPA on the part of the PP. If before the Catalan elections the PP hesitated between being Feijóo or Ayuso and watching VOX every Monday by the rearview mirror, today directly it is Abascal who drives the Popular Party. That is why I was telling you, Mr. President, that there is no one in front of you. There can be no country project, there can be no sense of state, there can be no political proposals with a minimum of land grab that come from the photo of Columbus, when PP and Citizens are fighting for their survival and when the piece that becomes strong is the one claimed by the terrorist governments of the dictatorship and, more recently, the state terrorism of the kidnapper and murderer Rodríguez Galindo. Since there is no one, Mr President, all the measures, all the real policy, all the progress comes and will come from the debate within the coalition government and with our parliamentary partners. I know that there are very powerful people who would have liked the Spanish to have voted differently and that the time of the monocolor governments would have returned. I know that there are very powerful people who do not like the debate, it makes them nervous; that is why they call it conflict, fight, tension, noise and even battle or war, because using negative words to refer to the normal differences in a plural parliament or in a coalition government serves to stigmatize social differences and debate, but it is that without differences and without debate there is no democracy. That is why I ask citizens to be suspicious of politicians and opinionors who speak negatively of differences in democracy. Out of curiosity, if they don't like differences and debate, what exactly do they propose? That is why I also ask you, Mr President, to work together in this new culture of the coalition, because it is normal for it to cost at first, given the history of our country. It is vital that we do this pedagogy, because not only are differences and debate the driving force behind democracy, but also that they will not disappear, and if we endorse the discourse of certain chattering that crush every day with which differences and democratic debate are terrible things, we will not only be feeding for three years to those who want to overthrow the coalition government, but we will also be setting up a highway for one day to win a Trump in Spain, because there is no more anti-political discourse than that and because the opposite of differences and debate we all know what it is. In three years' time, when we get back to the polls, citizens are going to judge the coalition government for the degree of courage and effectiveness of the measures we have been able to put in place, and those measures, Mr President, are going to emanate from the debate in the coalition government, with our parliamentary partners and with civil society, and that is fine, because that is what democracy is about. For example, we believe that housing is a fundamental right enshrined in the Constitution and that it is above any market consideration. We think we have to make laws to intervene in the rental market. Before forming a government at this point we did not think the same - I know because I was part of the negotiation - but we were able to debate and reach agreements above our differences, agreements that are firm today, that are black on white, and that, therefore, I am sure that we will start soon, improving the lives of many people, in particular many young people. Something similar is happening with labour reforms. We believe that the last two must be repealed, but we were able to agree on our differences and we agreed to repeal the labour reform of the People's Party. With youth unemployment of more than 40%, with a rate of temporaryity of more than 55% and with an average wage among young people, which is half the average wage in Spain, it is very important that we speed up, Mr President, the fulfilment of this commitment, because a large part of the discontent, frustration and indignation that we are seeing these days on the streets and that many forums are trying to criminalize it has to do with a deep despair among our young people, who are facing precariousness and an absolute lack of prospects. Our young people, Mr President, as you said very well, are neither the culprits of the contagion nor are they children or terrorists, they are the future of our country, and we cannot allow the institutions to continue to leave them behind. I want to think - and I think I am not wrong here - that we do agree on this. Perhaps we do not agree, for example, that the current design of minimum living income is too bureaucratic and that this is preventing it from reaching many people it should reach. Perhaps in this we do not fully agree, but I am sure that by debating again over our differences we will be able to reach an agreement to improve this social right. There will be those who try to convince us that it is terrible to debate in democracy, I have no doubt - I wake up every day with the Chain Being - but you and I know, Mr President, that the result of that debate will be that more humble Spaniards can put food on the plate. [[The Lord]] The three years of government that we have left - probably more than three, because I say to you, Mr President, that there is no one - we will have differences on many points; at best on the rights of trans people, on the law of the one hand, on the pension system, on the regularisation of migrants, on the reform of the electricity market, on freedom of expression or on the monarchy. Some of these differences are not going to be resolved by this legislature and will have to wait for the Spanish to redistribute the letters in the next elections; others will have as easy a resolution as coming to and implementing the government agreement, and most of them will be resolved through dialogue and democratic debate. It is our duty to do so, Mr President, because within three years there are only two possible scenarios: or we can say that we have taken courageous and effective measures that have protected the population, that have given the Spaniards prospects for the future and that have changed and strengthened our economic model or we will have failed. In the first scenario, we will not only have a fairer and better country, but I am also sure that citizens will know how to recognize it in the ballot box. In the second scenario, if we are not able to do what we have to do, not only will enormous social suffering be generated, not only did the material foundations of democracy deteriorate, but we certainly also look at the dark precipice of hatred and the extreme right. Whether or not we take these courageous and effective measures not only play the future of the coalition government, we play the future of our country. That is why it is vital to pedagogy this new culture of the coalition, that is why it is vital to naturalize differences and debate, because for many aggressive discussions that dedicate us on radio and on television, Mr President, of that debate from where the progress and measures will arise and because other things I say to you that no, but to have different positions, to debate and to reach agreements is indeed democratic normality. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u11	Thank you very much. [[Pausa.-A cleaning worker proceeds to disinfect the rostrum used by Mr. Echenique Robba]] For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Rufián Romero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u12	If you go out, you'll get infected; if you don't go out, you'll go crazy. Get out to remove ice; don't get out that there's ice. Don't go to E.R. if you don't know what you have; go to E.R. to see what you have. Be supportive and salt, that the bars sink; be responsible and do not go out, that the bars infect. Ventilating school is safe. Playing in the park is insecure. Go vote you can. Don't go on the subway if you can. The repuntes are your fault; the descents are the measures. Look how good Valencia; look how bad Valencia. Look how they get together. Look at those laughs. Look how they touch each other. Vaccinate now for what can happen; don't vaccinate now to see what will happen to you. He believes that Christmas must be saved; he consumes that the summer must be saved; he consumes that the Holy Week must be saved. You will see the second wave; you will see the third wave; you will see the fourth wave. You'll see, you'll see, you'll see. Exhaustive. For this is what many people, many people in this country have been living for days, months and almost a year. The Jumanji of the management of the pandemic, an entire national adventure, is firing a curve as alarming as that of contagion, that of mistrust, and mistrust, ladies and gentlemen, rots everything in politics and in life. And there are already three mistrusts that will prevail beyond the pandemic. The first, people's distrust of us, of politicians. The thing before it is the neighbor who chooses the mayor was grace; the mayor now chooses to be vaccinated before the neighbor, not so much. People no longer know who of those they vote for are useful and who are not. Consequence: the party of the fourth Cuban, VOX, entering the parliaments with batons. The second distrust, that of politicians towards the people. Consequence: increasingly restrictive measures under a clear premise: only prohibition with people works. Out of the pedagogy. And the third distrust, between us, among politicians, with shared social objectives above all, and I mean the left. Consequence: minimal cooperation and maximum disorientation. This is the stage, ladies and gentlemen. Let us never forget, let us never forget that a state of alarm is a state of enormous democratic anomaly, so comfortable by the enormous powers it confers on a Government as dangerous by the even greater abuses it can carry. How do you think it feels a lot of people going on a crowded subway of people, probably on their way to a low-paid curro, and read in any digital that is being vaccinated to the Berlanga, that is, first the mayor, the priest, the judge, the guard and then the people? How do you think they feel? How do you think a lot of people feel knowing there are VIP vaccines? How do you think? These days there is an interesting, very interesting debate about violence. United We can condemn it every day and yet they open newscasts every day saying that United We can't condemn it. They almost lacked a sign with neon letters saying, "We condemn violence." It sounds to us. But violence is not just a broken window, ladies and gentlemen; harassment is violence; poverty is violence; exclusion is violence; precariousness is violence; racism is violence; machism is violence; fascism is violence, and manipulation is violence. [[Applauds]] There are words that burn and non-compliance that hurt. The tweet of a VOX deputy praising a torturer and a confessed murderer as Galindo burns, burns like a fire, and protects people from a virus, but not from the misery that will entail, for example, by not regulating the price of rent as you, ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE, committed, hurts, hurts like a fuck. That this is never said in the media, that is not a marginal opinion, that is simply a marginal opinion. It was forty years ago yesterday that a fascist handgun, sent by other fascists, inside and outside, came up to this very rostrum to give a coup d'état. Do you know what's changed in these 40 years? That those who sent Tejeroa this rostrum no longer need to send here a fanatic with tricorn. As we have said many times, today the coups d'état are not made with military and tanks; today the coups d'état are made with editorials and digital. Look at that. First, the danger was living like in Venezuela; then, the danger was that he stole from you for a month; later, the danger was that the Okupas occupied your house; then, the danger was that the ETA ruled; then, the danger was that the vice president of a social communist dictatorship said that this democracy was also better, and today the danger is a rapper who hypnotizes and radicalizes young people with his lyrics. Today, ladies and gentlemen - it is not casual - we know much more about a Nazi girl, who made a Nazi speech in Madrid, than about an anti-fascist girl to whom the Mossos d'Esquadra took an eye with a blow job in an anti-fascist demonstration in Barcelona. [[Applauds]] Today there is already a whole media, political and judicial machinery that generates an environment of exceptionality, uncertainty, relativism, fear, democratic questioning and, above all, misery, moral misery. And with a pandemic and a political arm with fifty-two deputies in Congress, I say that today coup has it even easier than forty years ago. Ladies and gentlemen, we are about to see media and parties say that Franco was an influencer of interwar. That's what we're at, and nothing's gonna happen. Let's go to the causes and not so much to the consequences. Spain is the oldest country on the continent and one of the oldest in the world. There are few young people, and many are unemployed, almost 40%. Spain is not able - it is not able - to generate youth employment even having one of the lowest percentages of youth population on the planet, and that is the key, that is the cause. When politics fails, the street is occupied. The burning of a container is simply the culmination of much more severe burns. Ladies and gentlemen, containers are replenished, but hope is not, and we have today an entire generation literally desperate. Today there is an entire generation that not only feels forgotten, but feels humiliated and pointed out. Sicculpating young people from the contagion was a savage, blaming them now for the violence on the streets is a political suicide, especially for you, ladies and gentlemen of the government. [[Applauds]] If they do, if they continue to do so, if they continue to blame young people, they will be giving an entire generation to disaffection, to abstention and to the far right, by that order. One thing that goes very well to avoid vandalism on the street is to avoid vandalism in the judiciary, in the police stations and in the news. [[Applauds]] Linares's is not for Linares; Hasel's is not for Hasel, it's for a whole generation that has only known crisis, precariousness and exclusion. Young people are accused of living under anaesthetized in front of a screen, for example. They are accused, they are criminalized for this when they are encouraged, without ever being analysed - never - that perhaps the material and working conditions of their environment are the cause of all this. Maybe a 15-year-old spends twelve hours a day in front of a screen because his mother spends twelve hours a day curving on a low-paid course, twelve hours a day; maybe that's why, maybe that's the key, maybe that's the cause. Politics, ladies and gentlemen, cannot simply be a mere instrument for holding an order. We are a party of government; Republican Left is a party of government, not of opposition, with everything it entails, with the enormous contradictions and responsibilities it entails. The republicanism that we defend, the left that we represent, is called, especially after February 14, to govern our country. We aspire to have a democratic police and to have a police model of the 21st century, and to see the police hugging in 'hands' of facades and beating in 'hands' of anti-faces I can assure you that it is not. It is very good to criticize, but even more to take charge and improve, and that obviously includes the police. [[Applauds]] I would like, ladies and gentlemen, to put an end to something unusual in politics: self-criticism. He is not here, but I address him: Mr.Asens, I did not like what he said to my group the other day. I think it was super and unfair, but you have the right to say it, you obviously have the right to say it, and maybe you're right. And I got carried away and made too many scarecrows during his intervention, and that's not our role, that's not my role. We represent too many people who share too many things to walk in the bargain with you and me. [[Applauds]] I want you to know that I respect you as a politician and as a person. Let's see if among all - above all, all - we make politics a little less testosterone. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u13	Thank you very much. [[Pause. A cleaning service worker disinfects the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Nogueras i Camero has the floor for the Plural Parliamentary Group, which is now holding its turn.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u14	Thank you, President. President, you have started talking about Europe and I will too. In Europe all democratic political forces have turned their backs on the far right, but here, in the Spanish state, you and your party are committed to continuing to whitewash. How do you explain that your Office keeps people in prison for defending their ideas peacefully and democratically, and at the same time you call the same political prisoners and exiles you keep as far-right? I appeal to your speech: humanity and responsibility, Mr Sánchez. Today I am not going to recite the list of errors and imprudentities that we believe your Government has committed during this health crisis; it is enough to review the hemerotheque and also the studies, the latest reports and the international editorials to know that the Kingdom of Spain is one of the countries that has managed this crisis the worst. We are going to list some of the measures that we consider essential, and I hope they will take note of them. To territorialize the MEDE credit for health expenses, so we release the regular budget and we will compensate for the losses of the most punished sectors; only for Catalonia would it amount to €46 billion. We must devote a much larger fund to active occupation policies; youth unemployment in this country is at unsustainable levels. You have announced EUR 11 billion in aid for small and medium-sized enterprises and for self-employed people. The proposal is fine, Mr Sánchez, but it would be much better to have the EUR 30 billion we would have in Catalonia if we negotiated the funds directly with the European Union, and it would also help a lot if you stopped raising the share of the self-employed in the midst of the crisis. The reconstruction of Catalonia involves unconditional support for those who generate jobs and investing in finalising the key infrastructures of our country that would improve the competitiveness of our business fabric, which has never been a priority for you. We prioritize investment in digital policies, we propose an economic transformation based on the knowledge society, the green and technological agenda and investment in R & D+i, which would reach 3% of GDP in Catalonia. Catalonia must have a voice and antennae in the world, and we will continue to do so through our government delegations, despite their recidivism in trying to eliminate them. Mr Sánchez, Spain today has a debt of 120 %, a debt which you all know perfectly well must be repaid, and to date that will be its legacy to the next generations, but, as President Puigdemont points out - and to see if I can explain myself, Mr Sánchez - the PSOE must acknowledge the merit of convincing many that responsible policy is that of failing to comply with the agreements and that those whom you have repeatedly deceived continue to regard as reliable partners. The reality is that the Spanish Government, whatever color it is, is a danger to freedoms, is anti-Catalanist and always acts against the weak. There's only one way out of this misery that we're being caught up in, and it's independence. Moreover, this path, independence, has now counted on 52% of the vote support in the last elections, and you yourself, Mr Sánchez, on 16 January 2019 in the European Parliament, and in front of diplomacy and the international media, said - and I quote, textual -: They have never gone beyond 48%; they are not a majority. Well, Mr Sánchez, we're past 48, we're 52; we're a majority. And now what, Mr. Sánchez, dialogue? What Dialogue, that of voting with VOX against our MEPs, who are the first Catalan force in Europe? The dialogue from no to amnesty, the dialogue from no to referendum, the dialogue from no to the end of repression? I'm waiting for your answer in the replica. I'm done, President. [[Finish your intervention in Catalan]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u15	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] The next item is Mr Bel Accensi.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u16	Thank you, President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I shall try to keep to the agenda. At some point, looking at the speakers' statements, this seems more like a general state debate than a debate to assess what the Government is doing with regard to the state of alarm. We, as we know, the Members of the Democratic Party, support the state of alarm and, in principle, make a positive assessment. It has been managed relatively well, the powers have been returned to the autonomous communities and they have been able to manage within their territory, some with better and others with less. There will be a time when we will have to evaluate each other's actions, some have more decentralized measures within their autonomous community; others, less, but it has worked positively. Therefore, in that we make a positive overall assessment. However, Mr President, the problem is the actions that had to be taken, complementary to these health measures that were being taken. The autonomous communities have been taking restrictive measures in economic activity and these restrictive measures in economic activity, which have not been general, which have been very sectoral and with a different impact, required compensatory measures. I'll explain myself. If restrictive measures are taken in activities such as hospitality, commerce, small business, restoration, beauty centers, because we understand that closing or restricting these activities benefit the community, and there are other economic activities, such as some of the industrial sector or major trade or food trade, that can develop their activity and have even increased it, what we have to do is that the cost of closing those activities does not revert exclusively to the activities themselves. In this case it is justified to socialize the losses. The cost of closing these activities must be socialized and that, from our perspective, should have been done especially by the Government of the State. Why? Because the autonomous communities do not have sufficient financial resources to deal with these consequences and hence the distortion in the application of the state of alarm. The autonomous communities are taking restrictive measures to combat the pandemic, but they cannot take the economic compensation measures and these economic compensation measures we are claiming from the first day; we again claimed them when we approved the budget. Today you from this rostrum, with a little delay, announce 11 billion, that we will see whether they are enough or not. I would like to make a clarification: are these 11 billion that you have announced here today direct aid or are they direct aid plus financial aid? At present, SMEs and self-employed people in the sectors concerned require direct aid, not financial aid. Financial aid is currently insufficient. At a time of a crisis of a few months or a few weeks, financial aid may be necessary and sufficient. In a crisis that lasts for months and in some sectors for more than a year, this financial aid is absolutely insufficient. We would therefore like to know whether this 11 billion is direct aid. Also, Mr President, we would like to bring back to this rostrum the demand of the majority of the municipalities, including the FEMP, for additional funding for these municipalities. Many municipalities have had to make use of aid to these affected sectors as well. Unlike the autonomous communities, they have not had those 3 billion promised and committed; they have been freed from the non-use of the remnants, but there are many municipalities that, unfortunately, had no remnants. In any case, this is absolutely necessary. So, Mr President, as far as health measures are concerned, a relatively positive assessment; as far as economic measures are concerned, an insufficient assessment. If they fix it now with the 11 billion, we'll take it for granted. We understand that it should be some additional amount, the important thing is to know whether they are completely lost or are financial aid that will be absolutely insufficient. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u17	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Then you have the floor of Mr Errejón Galván.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u18	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Sánchez, you appear here almost a year after the first states of alarm, after a year that has been very hard for everyone. The Spaniards during this year have worked hard, sacrificed themselves, stopped visiting their elders, endured at ERTE or with gas-fired businesses and endured a very harsh situation basically without knowing what would happen to them the following month. Now it seems that we are beginning to live a certain hope with the vaccination process and hopefully thanks to it we can soon recover our lost life, but we all know that there will be deep wounds. After a hard year, I think we can take stock of both what citizens have done and what the Government has done. The government has been asking the Spanish for effort and sacrifice for a year, asking for responsibility. It seems obvious that the Spaniards have fulfilled, so I do not think it would be much to ask the government to expect the same responsibility. Today, Mr Sánchez, it is easier to learn about the government's latest controversy than what the quota of self-employed people is going to be in June, whether they are going to extend ERTs or the changes in the rules on mobility restrictions. Citizens sometimes get much more noise than solutions, we are almost a year away from the contract signed in this House for their inauguration as president of the government, not signed between two groups, signed between many groups to give the numbers. And it has to be said without buts: rents have not been regulated, the law has not been repealed or an ambitious law of climate change is in place in line with what science demands. You probably don't remember and it's normal, but I do. In the investiture debate we told them that you could not settle for being a government against the right, that they are the symptom of social decomposition, but that you have to be a government against causes, injustices, hopelessness, inequality. [[Rumors]] That's what they have to do, we've been doing it for a year, and I have the feeling that they've been settling for being a government on the right. It's normal because this thing you're facing is terrible, but the problem isn't what's here. The problem is what's out there and out there things are ugly... [[The Rumors Continue]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u19	Ladies and gentlemen, quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u20	They're getting ugly, with people getting tired and getting more anxious. A year of government we see symptoms of a tired executive who has lost course, you have to stop the ensimism of arguing with yourself and regain the pulse of Spanish society. A year after the legislature, Mr Sánchez, they get oxygen back, they get back in touch with this Congress and let us agree on a stable and exciting course and horizon for this legislature to ensure that people get more solutions than noise. In this speech I have reserved myself a space to talk about something that is never talked about and that I think is fundamental and it is a request that we make to the Government and to the State. It's something the vaccine won't cure. You've talked about emotional fatigue, but I don't think we just have emotional fatigue, Mr. Sanchez. Our society is traumatized, the pandemic, the confinement and the crisis have caused enormous psychological pain, which is particularly eaten by the most humble. 65 % of the Spanish population have symptoms of anxiety or depressive symptoms, suicide is the first cause of non-natural death already doubling to traffic accidents. In Spain, the medical emergency system has registered 130% more consultations this year on depression, emotional distress and anxiety and drug use has been triggered. You, Mr. Sánchez, do you know how many people suffer, do you know how many people are alone, how many people are sad, how many people need pills for anxiety, how many simple people and plainly hurt every day? The fourth wave, Mr President, is going to be that of mental health and the state has to move forward and it has to take over by multiplying psychologists in the public system, because emotional health cannot depend on the money your family has and putting at the center of public concerns an entire generation of young people that we are losing, who have only experienced one crisis after another, becoming entangled, and who are currently in the bad mood, frustrated and with less and less patience. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u21	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u22	The truth will make you free. After listening yesterday and today to mimibarous and complacent demands of the attempted coup d'état or the role of the then king, after hearing criticisms and disqualifications that we did not want to be present yesterday, the words of Jesus gain more strength: 'Truth will make you free'. If your version of the story is true, if you are so sure, declassify all the 23-F documentation, and then the others will be able to do as St. Thomas, put their hand in the sore, in the documents, and then we will be able to believe your version. Mr Sánchez, the budgets have been approved, the Catalan elections have been held, the European alarm and fund decrees have been approved and processed, they have put the autonomous communities to fight against the pandemic and the Valencians and the Valencians, although we have gone wrong, we have shown that we are able to take decisive measures, which Compromís has always proposed, and to bend the curves of deaths, contagions and hospitalizations, and today fortunately we see a little light. But there are also shadows that depend on your Government. I'll tell you two. The first, the vaccination process, the distribution of vaccines. We believe that the most sensible measure would be to divide them according to the population, especially now, with the AstraZeneca vaccine, which cannot be given to people over fifty-five years of age, in order to avoid differences between territories and suspicions and to avoid that some communities like ours, which are highly vaccinated, are far below their population weight. And the second, after the approval of the budgets, of the European funds, of the state of alarm, and after the Catalan elections, there is no longer an electoral landscape in the short term, there is a time of stability and, therefore, we can address delayed problems, we can implement investment agreements with us and with everyone. The new funding system was discussed in our agreement. Look at this map. [[Show a map]] It's the debt map for our gross domestic product. There's only one purple territory, ours. When you get to president, we owed 46 billion, now we owe 49, 3000 more. We paid debt in debt, absolutely Kafkian, and we have made a great deal of effort, the Valencian Government has made a great deal of effort, but with this funding we are exhausted. Mr Sánchez, there are no excuses now, now is not the time to promise, it is the time for good funding. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u23	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Rego Candaimil has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u24	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr President, since we are one year away from the state of alarm, in three minutes let me give a general reflection on three elements. First, the management of the pandemic by the Government was and remains highly deficient. No absolutely necessary measures were taken, economic interests were prioritized in the face of saving human lives and social protection was and continues to be manifestly insufficient despite announcements such as the one we have just heard. Right now limiting the acquisition of vaccines to NATO space is a mistake because, if the priority is to save lives, it makes sense to negotiate with all the available vaccines laboratories so that, with all the necessary health controls, we can move forward on vaccination as soon as possible. That at this time not even 3% can only be described as failure. By the way, we demand a fair distribution of vaccines which, at least so far in the case of Galicia, is not being so. And, by the way, when are they going to explain what the conditions of European funds are, how they are going to distribute them and who are going to benefit, whether society as a whole, the social majority or just the usual ones? Secondly, the health emergency situation was addressed from a centralist perspective that, beyond political reading, meant inefficiency and slowing down the solutions to be implemented. In this second stage they chose to delegate to the autonomous communities, but without giving them competence to do so. First, they cancelled the competitions by decree and now an autonomous government can move the curfew one hour up or down. All right. If you move it for three hours, you go directly to the Constitutional Court, it's not going to break Spain. We must be grateful that this Government is demonstrating the inadequacy of the autonomous system to solve the problems of our peoples. Thirdly, they used the pandemic as an excuse to fail to meet their commitments. There they continue without repealing the labour reform or the law on the biting; without applying the rebates on the tolls of the AP-9; without solving the industrial crisis in Galicia; with the focus on the electro-intensive industry, in Alcoa, Agroiberica or Endesa; they continue not to solve the problem of returned emigrants, etc.; finally, without complying with the set of measures contained in the investiture agreement, which is not a commitment to the BNG, but to all Galicians and Galicians. That is true, with the General Budgets of the State you have committed a new act of discrimination in our country, as before, towards the People's Party. Correct, because every day you go without doing so, you go deeper into your disbelief in Galicia, with more people who think you're not trustworthy, that the PSOE is a party you can't trust. On July 12, Galicians and Galicians sent a clear message to PSOE and Podemos. It seems they didn't understand it or that they don't care, which is even worse. Finished. In any case, there are also more and more Galicians every day who join the BNG to consolidate an alternative to the harmful government of the PP and Feijóo in our country, an alternative that opens way to a Galician with the capacity to decide for itself its future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u25	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Arrimadas García has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u26	Thank you, Mr. President. Twenty thousand Spaniards have died by COVID in our country since Mr Sánchez last came to this rostrum to explain the state of alarm. There are twenty thousand Spaniards, twenty thousand broken families, twenty thousand dreams lost in a third wave that has also caught many people by surprise. Eight months ago Mr Sánchez made it clear to all the Spaniards that he was withdrawing from the fight against the pandemic, which left the health care workers at the forefront and also, from the point of view of the Administration, the autonomous communities. Today you have found a very funny euphemism to say what happened: that left greater prominence to the autonomous communities. No, it's that you guys ran out eight months ago from fighting the pandemic. Many Spaniards already know that when they hear about the pandemic to the President of the Government, they will be able to hear you talk about logos in vaccines or European aid, but probably not about the less beautiful part of the toughest part of the management of a pandemic, which certainly has no precedent. We're in a state of alarm for six months and Mr. Sánchez is due today, because if he were, he would be six months without appearing for Congress. That's right, he comes to the control sessions, and we're going to have to thank him even for coming. I am glad that I have taken a position of responsibility, because I am convinced that if that state of alarm had not been supported, the Spanish Government would not have taken restrictive measures, it would not have wanted to enter that less pleasant part of the management of the pandemic. And how would our hospitals be, how would the ICUs be if it were not for some responsibility that the autonomous communities have assumed because of this state of alarm, in which the Spanish Government basically washed its hands and said that it was not going to take any action? We are seeing the consequences of that absence of a national plan to deal with Christmas dates and we are seeing the consequences on those 20,000 dead since Mr Sánchez came here on 16 December, if I am not mistaken. Worst of all, the pandemic isn't over. I like speeches of hope, but I think the Spaniards do not like triumphalist speeches, especially when they come from the greatest political leader we have in this country, who does have to assume leadership and responsibility, as we are seeing in other countries. Why? Because, if not done, it gives the feeling that Moncloa is like a bubble waterproof to the suffering of many Spaniards. And it's okay with the message of hope, because we're gonna get out of this, of course. We've solved much bigger problems. We commemorated it yesterday, celebrating the forty years since Spanish democracy survived a coup d'état and consolidated itself as a political system, but there really are many months ahead. Therefore, if we do not have a good diagnosis, we will hardly be able to take good measures. The Spaniards are seeing that there is a very complicated health situation. The Spaniards are seeing that we have a very difficult economic situation and also a political situation of instability and violence on the streets. This uncertainty even leads to a sense of a crisis of authority on the part of the Spanish Government. Not a single reference to the altercations we are having for many days in my land, in Catalonia, but also elsewhere in Spain. And not only have we had altercations, but there have also been demonstrations by members of the Government that, far from making a common front against the violent, what they do is a sort of justification for violence. What will all those merchants, those hoteliers who strictly comply with the restrictions, all those families who have been months, months and months without seeing their family members and see how the government is more understanding with those who destroy urban furniture, with those who skip the restrictions than with those who comply with them in a rajatabla? That is why I was telling you that the message of hope is very good - and I share it, Mr President - but when that falls into empty triumphalism, it is when it generates more discomfort and more despair in Spanish society. The last time you came around to give explanations about the state of alarm I made you almost twenty proposals and a series of questions. I remember he didn't give many answers, even some that he still resounded in this Chamber, as when he said that the vaccination plan was already published in the BOE, which was obviously not true. I would like to make a few comments and move some doubts that have health care providers, that have experts, that have epidemiologists with regard to the health situation, but also with regard to the economic situation on the part of companies, workers, families, self-employed persons, entities, etc. At the health level, 14,000 remain in hospital in our country and more than 3,400 in ICUs; 443 deaths occurred yesterday. You didn't name it today, but I'd like you to talk here in your reply about what's going to happen in Holy Week, Mr. Sanchez. Are we going to live a Christmas 2? You haven't mentioned what the plan is. What's going to happen? Are we still going to have seventeen different plans or approaches this Holy Week? Are we going to have to see a fourth wave after these dates if you don't take the right steps? All we have heard are contradictory speeches from their ministers about Holy Week, about tourism, but I ask you not to hide again as you did on Christmas. Those same gestures you also made to me two months ago and, in the end, look what happened. With regard to this fourth wave, are you aware that there are some experts who even say that a fourth wave or a rebound could arrive in March because of the discontrol of the new variants, which are not just being sequenced in our country? Do you have, apart from those airport controls that you have announced - which, by the way, are not at all rigorous with respect to most countries - some measures to increase that sequencing of viruses that all experts say is necessary to make a proper control of the evolution of the pandemic? On the issue of vaccination, you have not commented on something that has been very serious. Because I believe that the Spanish can understand that more vaccines arrive from Europe than we would like, that I believe that we can all, to a greater or lesser extent, come to accept it, but what we cannot accept is the theft of vaccines. I would like you to make a statement here and ask you expressly, Mr Sánchez, to support our ethical commitment so that any vaccine steals, any corrupt 'vaccine gate', has to leave your political party when it is detected. I say this because you have held back in the Senate - you, the Socialist Party, the Worker and the Spanish - together with your governing partners - we can, nationalists, etc., your usual club - this ethical commitment. [[The lady]] I want to show you a map of shame. This is a map of positions of the Socialist Party, of the People's Party, of Junts per Catalunya, of the PNV, of people who have skipped the queue in vaccination. [[Displays a poster reading: Politicians who have been vaccinated against coronavirus]] I can understand that fewer vaccines are coming to us in Europe than we would like, but what we cannot accept is that there are politicians who jump in line. So, Mr Sánchez, are you willing to take on an ethical commitment - which I think you can also give a very good image of Spain, and you could lead it and put on the medal if you want - to drive all those vaccine thieves out of the political parties and jump their tails? I think that would increase confidence in the vaccination system. I would also like to ask you, Mr Sánchez, whether you continue to trust that 70% of Spanish people will be vaccinated in the summer. What is going to change with regard to what has been done so far, apart from a greater supply that we hope will come from Europe? I say this because 2% of the population has been vaccinated in these two months. We have talked in these weeks with health experts, with people who are on the front line of vaccination and doubt that by summer you have been able to keep that promise. I say that because there are still many things that can be improved and I offer you alternatives. There are many autonomous communities that are asking the Government of Spain for permission to make use of human resources and infrastructure that are of the General Administration of the State and you are refusing. Can you speed up those procedures? It is curious, because there are even some autonomous communities of their own political colour. In short, what is going to change, apart from a greater supply of vaccines, so that you really trust that 70% of Spaniards will be vaccinated by summer? Can we implement, Mr Sánchez, in these months the common clinical history and the single health card, which could help to detect the virus and which could greatly favour the work of health care providers? What are you going to do to deal with this mental health crisis, to which some other spokesman has referred earlier, which we have in Spain? I would like you in your reply to give explanations, because the last time you gave few; it even came out with a certain tone of pride, as I say, saying that everything was already published in the BOE, but I really want to remind you that there are many health doubts about it. And let us not forget the economic plan. Look, Mr Sánchez, you did not remember today that we have 4 million unemployed people in this country; you did not remember today that we have lost 207 000 companies in the last six months; you did not want to remember today that our country is the country that has had the biggest fall in GDP from the OECD, but you did make an announcement - of those who like the Redondo factory - of these 11 billion euros. There is a very clear question, Mr Sánchez, that many Spaniards are doing it right now. Are these EUR 11 billion direct aid or are they going to be financial aid again? Are they going to be EUR 11 billion in direct aid? I would like to make it clear in this case because we have all seen that in France there is an ambitious plan to cover up to 60% of turnover and that in Germany 83 billion euros - with a lower fall in GDP, of course - have been allocated to many businesses and up to 75% of losses are covered. I would like to know what that EUR 11 billion is going to come into being. I ask you: do you think that you can endure many more months of business and not just businesses, but also small businesses, self-employed people and SMEs in this country? What will these entrepreneurs think when they fulfill their obligations and see that you are always defending those who fail, those who skip the laws, those who burn containers and those who do not comply with the restrictions? What will all these self-employed people and businesses think when they see that in other countries there are direct aids and here we never find money? Well, Mr. Sánchez, in the face of this, I don't just want to make critical speeches. I don't even want to imagine, Mr. Sánchez, what you would be like - when you end up - if you weren't ruling. I remember his position during the Ebola crisis. I don't even want to imagine what speeches you would make if you were now in the opposition. But I want to tell you that more state agreements are needed in this country, and I say this in a week that is a real shame for millions of Spaniards, and now I have to look at the other part of the House as well. Because in this week two spokespersons - two politicians who, like Pimpinela, argue a lot in public - probably, when today's session ends, they will go to a dark office to distribute the Spanish judges and Radiotelevision. That is, the Spanish have seen in a year that these two parties have been unable to make state agreements to save lives, to carry out general state budgets to approve states of alarm that protect the Spanish, but they see that now, in hiding, they are going to a quarter to distribute the Spanish judges and Radiotelevision. What a shame of bipartisan parties that all they care about is the distribution of the state. Because these are not state agreements, they are agreements to divide the state, and the situation is regrettable. The members of the Government have agreements with parties that want to destroy the State, make agreements to divide the State with the opposition, but do not make state agreements. And here, another game, VOX, kicks not because the judges are sharing, not because they are sharing the TV; no, but because they have not been allowed to put spoons in the distribution of the judges and the TV. I want to offer you four state agreements to save lives and jobs. The first is to prevent new waves - which can come, even if you never talk about it - and to speed up vaccination, with so many measures that are being defended by real experts, not imaginary experts who normally advise you. The second state agreement I want to propose is an agreement to rescue the Spaniards from ruin. Direct aid is needed now. Financial aid, moratoriums, ERTEs, were good measures and probably sufficient if this crisis had lasted a couple of months. When a crisis lasts a year and a half, as it is, it is essential, urgent and absolutely necessary for you to implement that direct aid plan already. The third of the agreements that I would like to propose to you - and in which you do not normally go into depth - is a state agreement to comply with the reforms that Europe is asking of us. It is not just about how we spend - as you say; I prefer to say how we invest - European aid; there are structural agreements and structural reforms that need to be carried out in our country and which you do not talk about. The fourth is an agreement to increase the budget in science and research to 2%. Look - and with this I conclude, Madam President - there is nothing in our country or in our society that condemns us to have the worst data on the management of the pandemic in the health and economic field. There's nothing to stop us from getting out of this crisis and doing it right. All we need is to change course and change policies. I ask you, Mr Sánchez, to leave the agreements with separatist parties that only want to destroy the state, to stop making agreements to divide the state and to agree once and for all on matters of interest to the citizenry and, ultimately, on state agreements, because every day that you go in the opposite direction is a day that steals from the opportunities and hopes of millions of Spaniards. [[pointing to the seats of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress and the Socialist Parliamentary Group]] Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u27	Thank you very much, Mrs. Arrimadas. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Esteban Bravo has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u28	Good morning. At many times it seemed to me that we were more in a generalist debate, like the so-called state of the nation debate, than in a debate on the pandemic, the COVID and the state of alarm and, frankly, I was concerned because it can give the feeling that the situation is already half over, that we are already at the end of the day, and we would be sending a wrong message to the citizens, as if we did not care about the current situation at this time and if it were not important that there should be no relaxation in order to be able to emerge successfully not only from the public health situation, but also to be able to emerge strengthened and strong in the economic sphere for the future. I'm going to try to focus on what the pandemic is, the COVID, etc. Now, fortunately, Mr President, we are talking about vaccines, that seems to be the focus of our attention, and I would say that the first conclusion is that we have made a great deal of progress, because it is easy to lose perspective when we are constantly talking about these issues. In the last debate we had, the issue of vaccines was there, but there was nothing concrete or we could see that it was going to start already and when exactly, there were only expectations. On this subject, however, I would like to make a few things clear. There is, as you mentioned, a vaccination strategy that marks the Government of the State and is actually being updated; there are the population groups to which vaccination has to be directed, what vaccines are put on each of these groups and how they are to be administered: doses, times, etc. But, of course, then, suddenly, in some moments, the message has been: run, run, vacunen; yes, I know we have said that the pattern is two, but you vacunen. Almost, according to some statements and some exhibitions in the media, as if this were some kind of race to run. Sure, then it happens. And what happened? It happened that the supply failed, the supply chain failed, and there came an unexpected moment for you - I think you had to have it planned - but pressure for who? Pressure for the autonomous communities, which are on the ground and are immunizing. So, I think we should make it clear that there is no lack of capacity on the part of the health system to vaccinate in any of the autonomous communities; what there is is a lack of supply, and that depends on you, because if there were more vaccines you could vaccinate more, of course you could! And then you have to do it, but you have to do it right, and for that there's a vaccination strategy and guidelines. So I think generating communicative expectations as they were already created at the end of the year made people think it was all done, when it turns out there were some things, a few things, that were not well built, and there I go to Europe. Good, very good, because it has been negotiated jointly and there has been no such tension between countries in obtaining the vaccine, but bad in terms of contracts that we partially do not know because many of its paragraphs are marked and on which there is a certain obscurantism. Bad about the non-compliance with the pharmaceuticals and the commitment they had, and what we paid in advance to speed up production. I believe that transparency is required if they do not comply and, above all, whether it is given to third parties, why it is given to third parties and in what cases, what can be perfectly justified. Europe recently authorized - well, not recently, a few weeks ago - the United States, Canada, etc., but there has to be transparency, and on that, at least I believe that this Parliament has no information at all. What should be the target? The objective must be that Brussels requires committed vaccines - which require committed vaccines -, to boost the industrial fabric in order to increase production - we must not forget to continue to boost research because this is going to be very important in the future - and to continue monitoring the strains that occur. By the way, speaking of new strains, you have now announced that flights from Brazil, South Africa and the United Kingdom will be closed in order to try to avoid, to the extent possible, the spread of new strains. Now, what I would say is that that's very good, but what happened with other countries? Has there really been exhaustive control? I'm talking about French tourism. I do not say that the hotels have been full, but, of course, to some, that for work reasons we had to go to Barajas airport, for two or three weeks the movement that was suddenly drawing attention to us, and not precisely of people who looked like they were working or having a work motive to make that journey. Because the virus can enter perfectly from another country, not directly from the UK. Are we really doing those controls? Have we taken things seriously? Because, of course, here we are restricting the movement between autonomous communities and in the case of Euskadi even within the municipality or only with the adjacent ones, and it turns out that we see an international traffic that is sometimes unjustified. So, well for the UK and Brazil, but it seems to me that we would have to have a broader analysis of the situation. I would like to ask your opinion on the COVID passport and the desirability or not of doing so. Clearly, if in the end this disease is more or less endemic, traceability will be needed in the future. What is the position of the Spanish Government on this? And I will also tell you that there are practical problems that the European Union should solve. For example, imagine people who are working in transportation, with trucks, etc.; in some countries PCR certificates are not recognized if they are not in the language of the country or in English. It's happening. I think it should be valid not only in Spanish but in other official languages, but also in Spanish, which are not being recognized by authorities in other countries. I believe that Europe should send an instruction and a message to solve specific problems. Therefore, the obligation of your Government and the European Union is to give certainty about the arrival of vaccines. It cannot be well planned by the autonomous communities if the information on the number of vaccines that we are told will arrive is only two weeks away, even less so if it is changed on the march and received less than it has been announced, and less so if, at times, as has happened, vaccination strategies are changed. You have today given information about what has been requested, about the new vaccines and that they will soon start manufacturing here and there, but what is needed is certainty in order to be able to make a correct planning, even if it doesn't have to be so optimistic. You have to be a little more'safe' - in quotes - when you say what can happen, but you need to know in order to plan. If not, it is asking for an impossible and putting pressure on those who have the responsibility to put the vaccine, which are the autonomous communities. Its obligation is to provide a certain timetable, and the autonomous communities are, of course, obliged to do so. Spain is no longer at extreme risk at the moment, fortunately -235 per 100,000 inhabitants - but we still need to be careful because, although the number of patients in ICUs is decreasing, the level of occupation is high. The media - some have also done so here - have taken out the theme of Holy Week and in the debate we had at the end of October the theme of Christmas was already beginning to appear as a goal. I think we have to park this absolutely and work and plan as if it did not exist, as we can find ourselves in a setback - then yes - that puts us competitively in relation to other countries in the exit of the pandemic in a worse situation. Of course, we have to try to end quickly and well, because the right thing to do in the control of the pandemic is going to be what makes us better implement our economy. Until we solve this, it's going to be impossible to talk about the other and we have to be in a good position to get out. You have given a number of meetings that have taken place: the Conference of Presidents, the inter-territorial congress, etc. I think there's basically been loyalty. However, with regard to co-governance, I would like to make the following points. He has been asked mostly for an adjustment in the Alarm Decree to strengthen the legal tools. I can understand your fears because this Parliament - let us say - is not very stable in its votes and I understand that by bringing an amendment to the decree, you know how it comes in but not how it comes out. Now, I also tell you that there are so many autonomous communities that were asking you on some issues the same thing, perhaps an attempt should have been made to have agreed a majority with parties that were in those autonomous communities supporting those governments. For example, it is clear on the subject of the advance of curfew. It was set at ten, but it could have been set perfectly at eight. Well, it was set at ten o'clock and now it looks like it's a pretty effective tool, but if there was a majority request from the autonomous communities, you could have tried to work with that majority and it wasn't done. I don't know if that's why, because you know how to get in and not how to get out, or because we had the Catalan elections and it was another issue of debate. I do not know, Mr President, but I think that at least I should have tried to seek that consensus, a consensus that was not only political, but also scientific. Similarly, efforts could have been made to give greater legal coverage - we are still on time - to the suspension of activities in different areas. Why am I telling you this? It is true that the higher courts of justice have acted in the same direction, but some - at times! - have experienced the experience that the corresponding High Court of Justice - read from the Basque Country - in three Sometimes, in August, October and February, it has ruled against the measures and were not measures different from those taken and sanctioned by the courts in other autonomous communities. In fact, that attitude of the High Court of Justice of the Basque Country is what motivated, I would say, in large part the current decree and its duration. It might also be possible to explore how to give a little more legal certainty to avoid this insecurity that is unexpectedly provoked by some judicial bodies. And in relation to the technical committee - I do not want to give up anything - I would ask you, instead of focusing on bringing out the guidelines before the interterritorial council, sometimes without consulting, making progress on what is going to be practically approved, to try that this which has happened sometimes will not be repeated again. I've got to get this over with. Two things about the world. How's the Covax mechanism going? Because if we do not work with all countries, helping middle and low-income countries, we will not get out of this pandemic. It seems that the first vaccines will arrive in Ghana - I have read the information in the American press - and it seems that this is going to be the first movement, but give us some information. What do you think of the proposal to exempt certain provisions of the Adpic agreement on trade-related intellectual property rights? What do you think of this WHO project on pooled access to technology against COVID, C-TAP, for a better transfer of knowledge? Are you guys doing something in that sense? It's over. This period is proving long and tedious, it is a complicated situation in general and, of course, with successes and mistakes on the part of everyone. Some sectors have taken a big hit. There is talk of hospitality, but there are many smaller sectors that are suffering so much or more and that remain in the invisibility. Economic problems have been caused, health problems of depression - some other intervener was also talking about this and I believe that public health has to pay special attention to this issue of mental illness, depression, etc. - and Health there will surely have a challenge and will have to make a reinforcement. In addition - and it is worrying - there is a certain relaxation of individual discipline, and more since vaccinations have begun. This is sometimes reflected in some unacceptable group attitudes which, in my view, should be sanctioned and which we should all condemn. Because how far are the applause on the balconies, how far are the applause! I believe that these attitudes are unacceptable and can only be understood from individual selfishness. One last effort is needed. We welcome the announcement you made of the 11 billion. In Euskadi, aid has already been approved and continues to be approved from the Government, parliaments and municipalities for trade, hospitality, tourism and culture, and it seems to me to be a good initiative. Finally, a final collective effort is needed on the part of all, on the part of each and every citizen, but this collective effort has to be matched by public institutions with certain and concrete deadlines. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u29	Thank you very much, Mr. Esteban. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Aizpurua Arzallus has the floor for the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u30	Egun on. Eskerrik asko, president. It's been a year since the virus arrived, a year since it entered our lives, a long year in which we hear and read the numbers of thousands of infections and hundreds of deaths every day. A year ago neither citizenship, and surely none of us here today, would have imagined the magnitude of what was coming upon us, and today, a year later, we hear and read those terrible figures more and more indifferently, as if it didn't affect us or as if it affected us less, as if we had gradually assumed it. A year ago, when the state of alarm was declared, we were incarcerated at home assuming what was happening and doing the greatest effort to stop it. These were very hard times for all of us. It was up to some of us to come to this Chamber to approve the state of alarm or to validate decrees that take urgent measures to deal with the health pandemic and to alleviate the social and economic pandemic associated with it. I remember those days when sadness was felt in the environment, there was more silence; even here, in this Chamber, I think our interventions were quieter because we came, at least some, thinking about what we could contribute so that citizens could cope with what was happening in the best possible way. I think we did that from most groups, and I'm sure we'd do it again. I am telling all this because today, a year later, after thousands of deaths and millions of infections, I think we have somehow lost sight of it. In those days we were talking about saving lives and a few months ago we were talking about saving a Christmas and now we are talking about saving Holy Week. In those days we were talking about ending the contagions and now we are talking about how to live with them. I believe that we have all lost sight of the gravity of this pandemic, and it is only necessary to see how most groups here today have focused on other issues that are not the pandemic; it is no longer at the centre of agendas or political debate. And I am not saying this as a censorship or as an attack on anyone but as a call for attention to all of us, because it is us and we, the rulers and public officials, the people in whom citizens have placed their trust for us to protect them, who must set an example and not send messages that come to citizens to that false sense of normality and relaxation, and the opposite is happening. Every time citizens hear us talk about descaling and, to be able, as quickly as possible, we are transmitting that sense of relaxation. Every time you hear about saving Christmas or Holy Week or next summer we are transmitting that feeling again, and to that I meant, that it is unfair for citizens to be blamed for their supposed relaxation when the rulers themselves, even unconsciously, are the ones who extend it. Because you speak, Mr Sánchez, as our governments do, that the increase in cases could be a little less than a kind of meteorological phenomenon, something that happens simply, and no, the increase in contagion is a direct consequence of the decisions made by the governments. There are erroneous decisions that lead to contagion, and it is high time to assume responsibilities also for what is wrong from the political point of view. It is enough to blame society alone, because this pandemic, ladies and gentlemen, does not improve. I share with you, Mr Sánchez, and with most people the optimism that can give us that vaccines are going to assume to be able to control this pandemic and save lives - of course, of course - but until that happens - and still lacks - we must make one more effort, and I do not want to be neither aggravate nor generate despondency or discouragement, by using one of the terms that you have used. We are going to get out of this, yes - of course we are - but, in the meantime, we must be realistic and rethink the way we have to deal with it. Because when the contagions are reduced something we lack time to, in the name of economic recovery, reverse the measures that had led us to a better situation. It is hard to take a year with measures like this, hard in health and hard in social and economic terms, but if we continue this way before the vaccines get the desired effect we will see another new crisis and, again, thousands of infections and deaths. Therefore, and being aware of people's tiredness and tiredness, we must do pedagogy and understand that it is worth another effort, bearing in mind the measures that work to avoid another blow. That is why, Mr Sánchez, I ask you - as we asked the Lehendakari Urkullu and the Lehendakari Chivite - not to be mistaken again, that even if it is hard their responsibility - our responsibility - is to do the best to safeguard the present and future of the people with the necessary measures because, as we said a year ago in this Chamber - a Chamber that at that time was almost empty - without health there is no economy. Mr Sánchez, I was talking to you about vaccines, in which we too trust as the best instrument to curb this pandemic, and it is really incredible, as you said, the ability that science has had to develop safe and effective vaccines in such a short time, and we celebrate it. It is a fact that we could describe as a milestone in the history of humanity, and therefore, because it is a milestone, it hurts to see how something so important is tarnished by the bad practices of pharmaceuticals, governments and politicians. Pharmacists who, prioritizing corporate profit and after receiving millions of public money, refuse to release patents to turn vaccines into a universal asset to continue doing business while blackmailing governments. Again, a scientific achievement achieved by brilliant researchers is mercantilized by this system; yes, this neoliberal system that does not understand life or health, that understands only economic benefits and money, of course. We do not see that your Government, Mr Sánchez, is pushing for action on this, we do not see it. We would like more initiative, more ambition to end corporate blackmail and a clear commitment to liberalising patents, and today you have a new opportunity to commit to it. As pharmaceuticals prioritized their interests, politicians also did the same, and vip vaccinations came and again appeared the worst face of politics, that of those who use politics for their own benefit, above the collective. I told you before that it was our duty as public office of citizenship to set an example and take care of people, but not everything is so, politicians of not a few Spanish parties - Basques too - have again given the worst examples. Politicians and police immunized, and sanitary and elderly waiting. That is the reality, the worst of politics, of the old politics of all time, also tarnishing this scientific milestone. It is curious because then they will try to convince us that capitalism is good for the citizenry, that old politics is what has to be trusted, but all this does is show that it is this system that does not care for people, that it is not good for the citizenry and that neither this old way of doing and understanding politics is at the service of people. Seeing how companies and politicians, not even with something as necessary and vital as vaccines, are not able to govern themselves by fair conduct only proves that this system is not worth it, nor is that policy prepared for the new challenges of the future. In any case, we hope that vaccines will reach the population, both from this State and from all over the world, and that we can end this pandemic. I told you at first that the health situation is very harsh, as is the other pandemic, the economic and social one, which is already hitting, but that you, Mr Sánchez, although today you have been reasonably optimistic, know as well as I that you will hit and hit even harder. We want to ask you again - as we always do when we have an opportunity - that this time the crisis should not be paid by the usual ones, those who have already paid the 2008 one, that the workers, the young women or the pensioners should not be paid by the workers. Now they have to pay the others: the rich, the banks, the big companies, all those who got rich with the 2008 crisis and are getting rich again now in the middle of a pandemic. Dare with them, Mr Sánchez, now yes, force them to take on the burden of this crisis, not only because they can but because they owe it to the citizens. Do not allow once again the rich to be richer and the rest, poorer. And I give you one example, one example: Endesa has won in 2020 - year of the crude pandemic - eight times more than what it won the previous year. This is what's happening. You often say, Mr Sánchez - today I think you have repeated it again - that this government will not leave anyone behind. He even said that everyone must live with dignity, and I wish it were true. But we have not just understood how you intend not to leave anyone behind if you refuse to regulate the prices of rents, if you do not repeal labour reform and pension reform, if you refuse to ban evictions and refuse to impose taxes on the rich and the bank, if you refuse to increase social protection, if you refuse to promote decent minimum pensions or to raise the inter-professional minimum wage. The truth is that, without doing any of this, we do not understand very well how he intends to keep his word of leaving no one behind. If you don't do this in the midst of this brutal crisis, when are you going to do it? We told him, Mr Sánchez, we are responsible, we have a word and we have proved it, but we are also demanding. Our loyalty is not with this Government but with the policies that help and benefit the working and working classes, Basques and also the State. That's why we demand more. Do not hide in the health emergency in order not to take far-reaching, deep measures that tilt the balance towards those most in need of support in the face of a crisis, because that is when the most necessary are left-wing and progressive policies. Mr Sánchez, we appreciate the measures that this Government has taken in the construction of the so-called social shield, we do so and that is why we have supported many of these measures, but it must make more decisions, faster and deeper. You have asked for unity today, but unity with those who seek to establish an agenda of cuts and austerity is not possible. But we do offer you responsibility and generosity from the left to make left-wing policies. Finally, Mr Sánchez, we have often called for the territories and the governments themselves to take the decisions on the measures against the pandemic and we continue to defend it, because clearly the instruments we now have are insufficient and will demand - as we have always done - that our institutions, the Basque Government and the Navarro have all the instruments - and I say all - in order to manage the health crisis and also the socio-economic crisis. You will say that it is indeed the autonomous communities that manage the decisions, but it is not true or it is not entirely true. Our Governments manage within the margins that their Government sets and it is obvious that they are not enough. Therefore, in the face of the coming crisis, I invite you to make a joint reflection to expand these tools so that from the exercise of our self-government we can respond to the demands of the citizenry. I'm on my way, President. Mr Sánchez, today I would have liked to talk to you about another issue, about the importance of recognizing all the sufferings to advance towards peace and coexistence, also the suffering generated by torture. Because this week the publication of the audios about Mikel Zabalza, tortured to death, has generated a great impact on Basque society for its cruelty, for its normality, for its everyday life. That is why I would like to know whether, as has happened in other conflicts in other latitudes, you will be the president who will take that step forward, that step so necessary and who will acknowledge that torture has caused enormous suffering in thousands of Basques and devascos. I hope it is, I hope it is you, because it is important that we all continue to take steps on this path, that we all show commitment and generosity to the path of coexistence. Let's go ahead there too, Mr. Sanchez. Eskerrik asko. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u31	Thank you very much, Mrs. Aizpurua. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Vehí Cantenys has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group, which is now holding its turn.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u32	Thank you, President. We want to start - as could not be otherwise - by celebrating that health data will improve, that the number of cases will fall and that vaccines will begin to reach everyone. We're going to do a parenthesis on the vaccines. They are not arriving with fairness or with all the fairness we would like and this is a problem. Moreover, it seems to us an aberration that in the midst of a health pandemic such as the one that exists we have not been able to suspend patents and that we are still with the famous phrase 'It's the market, friends'. There is a health pandemic, vaccines are needed and patents should not be a problem. If health data improves, it is economic data that do not improve. In an interview this week economist Miren Etxezarreta said that COVID has not gone against capitalism, but against the economy of the poorest. The president of the generation who were teenagers in 1992 was speaking, the truth is that it's mine and I couldn't help but change the speech I had prepared. Mr. Sanchez, the first thing I would say to you is that we're not so young anymore and this is not a joke. This is that precariousness has been installed in our lives, that precariousness is part of our everyday life and our future. And the second thing I would say, you thanked him, but thank you neither fill the fridge nor for anxiety, Mr. Sánchez. Do you know what people need that they will never have a fixed or indefinite contract? We need the banks to return the rescue, because 50% of the Spanish state's population does not reach the end of the month. Do you know what we need? Let them regulate the electricity market. This week we have learned that Endesa accumulates a profit of 1394 million euros. We think it's obscene. Do you know what the generation that will never have a safe and orderly life in material and economic terms needs? That they regulate the rent, that they make available to the most vulnerable population the floors that the Sareb has or that have the vulture funds. Instead of doing this - which are obvious measures with the situation that exists - and while thousands of young people protest in the streets because there are singers in exile and in prison for criticizing the monarchy, you yesterday paid a state tribute to 23 F, which is one of the founding myths of Spanish democracy: coup d'état and tribute to a king fleeing for corruption. Faced with this, ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE, from our perspective you are part of the problem, not the solution. We told you a year ago, when the investiture was being debated and there was also a situation of protests on the streets, and the situation has continued and even with a pandemic you have not changed substantial elements that would change people's lives. We'll tell you something else. In Catalonia VOX has gone up a lot. You know what that means? That unionism is becoming more and more radical, you will know. If when the extreme right criticizes the rights of women, they respond with feminism, why when the extreme right criticizes the rights of Catalans do not answer you with more rights? Put the ballot boxes, the Catalan people have called for a referendum once again. Even with elections imposed and in the midst of a health pandemic, in Catalonia people are calling for a referendum. To Esquerra and Junts per Catalunya, we share the analysis, but you've been in the government for the past three years, so don't talk like I'm not with you. The situation is very serious. Let's get to work, let's open a new cycle, but with sincerity and structural changes. I ended up addressing the young people who are on the Catalan streets these days. There is a future, the future is you, and the CUP is committed to building a country for its people, a country that knows there is another way to live.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u33	Thank you, Mrs. Vehi. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the same parliamentary group, I have the floor, Mrs Oramas González-Moro.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u34	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. President, shame, indignation, affront. There are no words for what you are doing in the Canary Islands. They have turned the islands into a prison to keep thousands of migrants crowded in internment camps under inhuman conditions, have allowed thousands of desperate people to reach Spain's main tourist destination, have managed to get the Canary Islands out on all European television stations with thousands of immigrants piled up on the cement of a pier. They have created alarm and fear, massified centers by putting older people with minors, separating mothers from their children, causing tension and fighting. They have made them sleep at temperatures of six degrees and walk between faecal waters. Shame, indignation and affront. You had abandoned the Canary Islands with the crisis. Now, besides, he insults her. Canary Islands is bankrupt, but you haven't made a rescue plan. Canary Islands is a catastrophic area, where poverty is devouring hundreds of families every day and you continue to treat it as one more region of this country. It assumes ERTE and pensions and, meanwhile, queues are growing in the social eateries and we have almost 400 000 unemployed. You said this was going to be the least-favoured government, a social government. Lie, Mr. Sanchez. Lie, Mr. Churches. This is a government that doesn't work for the worst. You're a fraud and you insulted me, you embarrass me and it makes me angry to see you play politics while my people starve. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u35	Thank you, Mrs. Oramas. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Quevedo Iturbe has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u36	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President of the Government, if there is one thing that is clear, it is that the pandemic has been and is an exceptional episode, both because of the lack of unity and even because of the lack of responsibility that we have had to suffer in this House, especially at the hardest times. There are also those who continue to put the economy ahead of health, with the dramatic consequence that, in the end, neither economy nor health, either. The positive is that the error of those who were engaged in propagating in times of harsh political crises and austere crime against public services and the general interest has been demonstrated. That policy has failed and must now be demonstrated by the facts. The value of co-governance has also been demonstrated. Of course, when Canarias was able to manage this pandemic, with a better knowledge of its own reality, as it is natural, it has shown excellent results. What happens is that at the exit of the pandemic it will also be necessary for co-governance to be a value. It is imperative for the autonomous communities to be able to develop their policies, especially in a case such as the one in the Canary Islands where problems are unique and situations too. However, it is true that the pandemic has lined up another set of relevant policies. Many have been mentioned here, and Nueva Canarias shares the need to discuss other policies that have clearly not been at the forefront of the issue. But now I do have to ask you one thing. I ask you, on behalf of New Canarias, to take part in migration policies in the Canary Islands. It's not reasonable what's happening. There are serious errors in certain ministries. We ask for your involvement, Mr President, because this matter is far more important than being a human rights issue, which it is, and it does have to do with other fundamental problems such as the growth of xenophobia, racism or the damage to the general interests of the Canary Islands. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u37	Thank you very much, Mr Quevedo. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the same parliamentary group, Mr Sayas López has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u38	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I want to begin my speech by showing all the solidarity with Azagra's neighbor, who was assaulted by her partner last weekend. I want you to feel the warmth of this House, the support and the desire for early recovery on the part of all. [[Applauds]] Mr President, it has been a year since the state of alarm was declared for the first time, more than three million people in our country have been infected by this virus, almost 90 000 Spaniards have died, and we still have no national strategy to combat the pandemic. We have seventeen strategies, seventeen communities taking the measures they consider appropriate because the Spanish Government has negligently transferred that responsibility to them. Thus we see how sometimes, in the face of a given, a measure is taken and sometimes, in the face of that same data, a different measure is taken. That is because there is no expert strategy behind it that indicates that it has given a given measure and that this applies equally, regardless of the autonomous community we are talking about and the political colour that governs it. I think that would be understood by society as a whole, because what is happening now is that, as measures are not being taken with objective criteria, people are already tired of so much arbitrariness. The risk of arbitrariness is that it will lead us, at best, to trivialization and, at worst, directly to non-compliance. If, in fact, we do not have a national strategy to combat the pandemic, let alone a country plan. With four million people unemployed, with almost one million Spaniards in ERTE, with the companies suffering, with the self-suffering, we still have no country plan. We need to regain confidence to attract investment and create jobs. Do you believe, Mr Sánchez, that it is possible to regain confidence when we have a government vice president who cries out to the world that Spain is not a full democracy? Do you think it's possible to regain confidence? It is very difficult to advance a country when the most destabilizing element is its own Government, because it is very destabilizing to have a Government that has chosen as partners that yesterday refused to participate in a tribute to freedom and democracy in the face of coup. And they did not participate because, probably, they feel much closer to the coup than to democracy, because the last blow to democracy that has taken place in this country was on October 1, 2017 in Catalonia, and those who gave that blow are those who today are partners of his government. That is why when Mr Rufián said today that the coup has made it easier, we have all fully understood that he is referring to having it easier after the results of Catalonia and having a government president like you, who chooses them as partners. Unfortunately, we have to say yes, they have it easier. It is very destabilizing for our country to have a government embedded in the debate whether or not we are a full democracy, or absolutely oriented towards limiting the freedom of the press, or fully dedicated to distributing the armchairs on Spanish Radio Television or the General Council of the Judiciary. Mr Sánchez, many Spaniards wonder if a government in all this has even a minute to think about the recovery of Spain and to take our country forward. I have just told you that it is essential that We can stop being part of the Spanish Government and that if you do not cast it out, either for lack of courage, or for what is worse, because you are thinking more about the electoral interest or the arithmetic of this House, the problem of Spain will no longer be We can, it will be you, Mr President. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u39	Thank you, Mr. Sayas. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] The next item is Mr Mazón Ramos.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u40	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr President, as in everything about the pandemic and the state of alarm, from PRC and Cantabria we are trying to be constructive, supporting the government, which does not mean that there has been and there are clearly better issues. But now we have to look ahead, and the most important thing we have in the short term is vaccination. From my party we tell you to put, first of all, all the priorities, before any other matter, the vaccine. Mr Sánchez, it is very worrying that at the moment there is not a minimum idea, even if it is approximate, of how many vaccines and when they will reach each of the autonomous communities, which are the ones that have to put them. The government must put all the meat on the boil in this matter, without squandering resources and putting pressure on the European Union to the limit. I want to imagine that you are doing it outside your speech, that you are 100 percent, but I remind you again. I would also say that they need to further refine their vaccination priorities. Apart from the specific groups, in the majority of the population it is not enough - at least in what I hear and in what you have said - to prioritize age for decades and regardless of sex. Minister of Health, you have to fine-tune more, you have to be braver in prioritizing these matters. A few weeks difference can save many lives, can save many hospital income, and can prevent thousands of contagions. And, of course, get vaccinated in record time. Here time is gold and no resources must be spared for this. The other fundamental element is tracking - in Cantabria it is being fundamental - which is what makes it possible to cut the transmission chain; it should be enhanced in all autonomous communities. Otherwise, Mr President, remind your ministers that they have some business with Cantabria to do, announcements that at the last minute tell us that we are going in a good direction. I hope they're real, I'll ask you here for them in two months. And remember that we are political partners in Cantabria and also in many issues discussed in this House. One last question with regard to the distribution of the new funds you have announced. I hope you take into account what the Autonomous Communities are telling you and listen to us. Today I will send the Minister of Finance some partial observations...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u41	Mr. Mazón, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u42	... on the distribution of the last 10 billion euros.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u43	Thank you very much, Mr. Mazón. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u44	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning, Mr. Sanchez. I begin by recalling that on 29 October, in the debate on the current decree of the state of alarm, which I voted against, you inexplicably abstained from defending this unconstitutional democratic parenthesis to the then health care holder, Mr Illa. By the way, since public health is the primary issue, you have had four health ministers, four, since you joined the presidency. It has already been said that Spain has made one of the worst efforts in the world. The second and third wave of the infection is a sequel to the period in which you, irresponsiblely, proclaimed victory over the virus on June 10. Hence, in the most alarming state of alarm, the actions of a bad government whose skirmishes and ministerial disagreements are terrible symptoms in the face of the challenge we face to overcome the tragedy, the contagion and the economic collapse. You ask for political unity and the coherent thing is that you start applying the recipe to the gallimaties of your own government. It is dramatic the destruction of businesses and jobs, the result of a paralysis to which we were dragged the denial of contagion and the delay in implementing measures to contain it. It left its fate to sectors for which, at last, but very late for many - also in Asturias - direct aid is now announced, just as other countries like Spain have already done. Finally, I would like to point out that the vaccination campaign offers doubts, so much so that I assume that the Socialist Group and that of Podemos have accepted the creation, here in Congress, of a commission of inquiry and that we have only two months of vaccination and there are seven months left. Although the Forum motion to commit a national plan was not approved, Mr Sánchez called for absolute priority and maximum attention to achieve group immunity that would allow the Spaniards to regain their longing for normalcy. It is not time for seventeen governments, each to its own ball and with restrictions on fundamental rights. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u45	Thank you very much, Mr Martínez Oblanca. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Finally, for the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Guitarte Gimeno has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u46	President, President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to start by recalling that there is still the pandemic and, for that reason, I thank all those who are on the front line for their work because, unfortunately, we still need to be on the front line. Our appreciation to all of them. We should have learned that the epidemiological control of a pandemic requires planned, precise and compartmentalized health action - if so - by territorial areas and that it also needs a common social commitment. That is why it would have been desirable for the plenary of this House to have strengthened consensus, information and debate, both to clarify relevant information and to strengthen social adherence to measures, and that has not been the case. Today we are concerned about the 14-day cumulative incidence data, which are more than 250 per 100,000 inhabitants in many of the provinces, and it is necessary to ask why this happens in the small, rural provinces and with an ageing population, such as Teruel, 407; Soria, 450; Palencia, 413; or Segovia. In addition, this same is repeated in that incidence at 14 days for more than 65 years of age. There is a need for more intensive health action where the larger population is more numerous per cent. In the criteria for the distribution of vaccines granted from now on, the size of the population and territorial dispersion should have a certain weight. For example, do not require people over the age of 80 with mobility problems to travel, necessarily accompanied by a caregiver, to be vaccinated at the health centre that is ten, fifteen or twenty kilometres from their home, i.e., the vaccination points must be brought closer to that population; as has been done in residences, vaccination must be carried out at the homes of that population. We must also see how effective it would be to vaccinate complete small towns, when their number of inhabitants is very low. Such immunization in rural areas may allow for safer mobility for the urban population seeking and needing outdoor, nature and rural recreation. On the other hand, we are very concerned about the impact of the confinement on the service sector in the population, I mean hospitality, small business and supplies. In the most depopulated provinces, confinement and perimeter closure have made them dependent only on their internal market, a confined internal market which is very small in scope and which impedes their development and survival. The lack of revenue has accumulated at fixed costs and will compromise the viability of these companies, when they do not lead to their definitive closure. We call for the allocation of this fund, which has been announced at 11 billion, to be made fairly and for aid, irrespective of the Autonomous Communities, to be made available without discrimination. There is a paradox that, for example, our tourism companies in Aragon have received direct aid of only EUR 1000 to EUR 1500 when in other autonomous communities such aid has reached more than EUR 25,000 per company. We need support measures. There are many ideas, such as allowing municipalities to exempt from IBI, paralyze business insurance, etc.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u47	Mr. Guitarte, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u48	... to reduce the minimum power levels and to recover loans, for example, to recover ICOs from the VAT generated by the companies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u49	Thank you very much, Mr. Guitarte. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Lastra Fernández has the floor for the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u50	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the pandemic has come to our country for over a year now and we are all aware of what we have lost, the pain of so many families and the effort and sacrifice that public health professionals are making. We've all learned a lot in these twelve months. We know that when care is extended, the number of contagions is reduced and when we relax the measures, there is a risk of resurgence. Today we see that the third wave descends in all the autonomous communities. We are one of the countries that has given the most vaccines and the effect is already clearly noticed, especially among the patients of the residences. But our message today is far from all triumphalism, also from that - it will allow - sterile pessimism, Mr. Married, which brings nothing but hopelessness. You spoke of disappointment in your speech; I believe that disappointment is only installed among your voters, Mr Casado. [[Applauds]] I want to talk to you about trust. Trust, because we know that it is possible to overcome the pandemic; trust, because, in a year, we have achieved an effective vaccine, something that humanity has never achieved; confidence, because all European countries have united to respond to the social consequences of the pandemic with the greatest economic effort in European history and confidence because the end of the pandemic will come. But they will allow me to talk about some other matter in this debate because Mr Casado and other speakers have raised other issues to which I would like to respond. Ladies and gentlemen, there are dates that are marked as a furrow open in time and that Monday, 23 February 1981 is one of those dates. For long hours, old and dark memories returned, but history was not written as the enemies of freedom wanted, but it was written with the clean words of a people who had already said enough. It was written with the headlines who spoke for the determined citizenship: 'The country with the Constitution' the daily El País; 'Fracked the attempt', of the Diario Ya; 'Clamor of freedom', of the Diario Pueblo; 'There we were all' wrote Diario 16. Yesterday we remembered those days not because a group of thugs threatened our democracy, but because freedom stood firm and prevailed over violence. Today, like then, the reactionary forces want to fish in the river revolted from fear, crisis and uncertainty; and today, like then, the socialists and all those who love freedom we face them with the most powerful weapon that has created the human being: the word and the calm reason, cleansed of hatred and anger. Violence, ladies and gentlemen, has always been the exact opposite of democracy and free politics, without buts, without excuses; to justify violence is to surrender, to lower your arms and to recognize the failure and inability of politics. [[Applauds]] As a militant of a leftist party, I cannot resign myself to the fact that the answer or the solution to any problem is the use of force and violence, I cannot accept that the decisive thing is who is more violent in the use of force; it is the opposite of what the left has always believed, of what we have always believed. It's giving authoritarianism an advantage it doesn't have, so don't expect it from my party. Ladies and gentlemen, in those days of 1981 we were shown that there is a thread that links each representative of this House with each of the citizens of this country, that this bond that unites us has a name: legitimacy. Legitimacy is that of what tyrants lack of all time and, because they lack it, they always have a deaf fear that try to quench with violence and oppression. Legitimacy is that invisible genius that turns naked power into authority because it is elected by citizens, because it is responsible to citizens and, therefore, respected by citizens. That is the true vault key of our democracy, the balance point that holds the entire building. That's why it's so important to preserve it. Very recently we were able to see in the United States the consequences of breaking that thread of trust, legitimacy, which unites citizens with representatives, rulers and institutions. Mr Casado, today you have come up to this rostrum to point out Members of Parliament and members of the Government, to demand cessation and to criticize the President for not facing, you say, those who question that we are a full democracy. And look, I'm going to tell you something, Spain is undoubtedly a full democracy, not because we say it one or the other question it, but because the most demanding international indicators say it, but, above all, because there are people who left behind to get this democracy and because many Spaniards gave it everything to achieve this democracy, this freedom, which generations and generations of Spaniards could not even dream of. [[Applauds]] And I'm going to tell you more, Mr. Married, and you're right, we've all had to read or hear statements that are hard to take for granted by any Democrat. It is difficult to hear, for example, that Spain is not a rule of law, it is difficult to hear that there is a deterioration of Parliament as a body of democratic control, that in Spain there is abuse of power, legislative abuse and abuse of the public media. Neither I nor any socialist share these claims, nor do they help our country or our democracy. I am sure that it is a feeling shared by the majority of Members of this House, also from the Group of the European People's Party, and yet, Mr Casado, these words are yours. They're yours. [[Applauds]] And then in his speech he talks about widening the space of moderation. I don't know what room of moderation you mean. Look, these words are exactly from the Assessment of the measures applied in Spain during the state of alarm, which you sent to the European Union. Do you remember? Do you remember? A report, let us recall, which you sent to make it difficult for Spain to achieve the EUR 140 billion that will revitalize our economy, that will save jobs, that will give us resources in front of the pandemic and that will help us to deal with the consequences of this pandemic and, therefore, economic crisis. [[Applauds]] Curious patriotism on the right. You now call for the cessation of those who question the full extent of democracy in Spain, but you did not have a problem in going to Brussels to tell your partners that - and I quote - the President of the Government intends to give an institutional coup d'état and end the separation of powers. [[Rumors.-Several Members: It's the truth]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u51	Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u52	But if you yourself, Mr Casado, have said in this House that Spain runs the risk of becoming a failed state! Since the same day that Pedro Sánchez took office as president, he has continued to question his democratic legitimacy. He said that Pedro Sánchez is an illegitimate president, a traitor to legality and the greatest felon in our history. He has accused him of the crime of high treason, compared him to the coupsmen of 23-F and said that the Government of Spain is heading for a constitutional dictatorship. And after all this and the vehemence with which you have expressed yourself in this rostrum a moment ago, I ask you, Mr.Married: Are you going to fulfill yourself what you demand of others? Are you going to cease yourself, Mr. Married? [[Applauds]] Look, there are two kinds of politicians: those who say what they think and those who say what is best for them at every moment. [[A Member of Parliament: Sanchez!]] They are easily distinguished because the former usually own their words, while the latter end up becoming their hostages. To have credibility we must have coherence, gentlemen of the PP, seriousness and coherence, even when we are debating in this House. [[Rumors.-A honourable Member: Sanchez!-Applause]] You too have repeated in the last few days until the satiety that there are differences in the Government. Well, if sometimes there are even them in monocolor governments, imagine yourself in a coalition government. Do you know who you have no problems with and understand perfectly? With VOX, where they rule. [[Applauds]] VOX requires them to eliminate the Equality Directorate in Madrid and no problem, they eliminate it. VOX asks for the parental pin and neither is a problem, they put it. VOX tells you that gender-based violence does not exist and you attack public policies that fight it where you rule. VOX requires them to delete the names of Indalecio Prieto and Largo Caballero and remove them from the street. Hearts and minds won't be able to do it, that's what I'm telling you. [[Applauds]] Mr Casado, in January 2020, in the investiture debate, I told him that if he spoke like VOX, he said the same thing as VOX, he proposed what VOX, he behaved like VOX and did politics like VOX, his voters will end up voting for VOX. In the recent Catalan elections this warning has become a reality. VOX has surpassed you and you have achieved the worst result of your history. It's very simple, Mr. Married. [[Rumors.-A honourable Member: Galicia!]] If you are extreme, you are extreme to your voters and they end up voting for the original, not the copy. They end up voting for VOX, not the People's Party. It's as simple as that. And it's that your fear of the far right is a problem for your party and it's starting to be for all of Spain. They should think about who benefited from Columbus's photo and especially how long they're going to keep his game in Columbus' photo. When you want to be in the front row, you can't copy others, so stop copying VOX and start leading your own party. And it's not, by the way, that they change appearances to give appearances of change. It is not a question of them changing their headquarters, but of changing their policies, strategies and, above all, their partners. Change partners. [[Applauds]] It breaks with the extreme right, which is devouring its party and is a threat to democracy and freedom in Spain. By the way, gentlemen of the right, condiferences or without differences, there is a law on euthanasia, there is a law on education, there is a minimum living income, there is a social shield and there are budgets. [[Applauds]] There will be equal treatment law, there will be LGTBI law and there will be housing law, because socialists rule to improve things and this government is improving things. Ladies and gentlemen, today's speech... [[Rumors]] Calm down a little, man! Just calm down a little bit.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u53	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u54	Ladies and gentlemen, today the reactionary discourse of anti-politics threatens us again and it is our duty, that of those who believe in politics and democracy, to remember that politics matters, that politics with all its imperfections is what allows us to move forward, to create a country and a more just world. If there is a vaccine against the virus today, it is because a good policy has been made, because representatives of all European countries have agreed, we have put in place resources and we have coordinated efforts. If today the European countries are not competing to get vaccines against each other, destroying the European Union, it is because it has become political. We've been able to understand each other, and that's made us all stronger. If Spain is among the countries that have made the most progress in the vaccination campaign today, it is because there have been presidents, councillors and mayors who have been able to join forces. I started this intervention by recalling 23-F and I want to end by remembering another anniversary as sad as it is a lesson. On February 22, 1939, he died in Collioure Antonio Machado, a poet for the people and for freedom. I believe that the best tribute we can make is to make sure that we fulfill that desire that you have expressed, to make sure that no Spain will ever again freeze the heart of any Spanish. Thank you very much. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations, we can-in Commu Puem-Galicia in common, stood up, and the members of the Government, some also stood up.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u55	Thank you very much, Mrs. Lastra. [[A cleaning service worker disinfects the speaker's rostrum]] Ladies and gentlemen, we're going to have a five-minute recess. [[Pause]] Ladies and gentlemen, we shall resume the plenary session. After the speeches of the parliamentary groups, the President of the Government has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u56	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Thanks to all the interveners. I have listened carefully to your arguments and would like to begin by addressing the issue that has been raised by different groups from different perspectives. As you know, the government - by mouth, among others, of the competent Council of Ministers, which is the Minister of Justice - advanced its will to reform the law to improve the protection of freedom of expression in our country, and we also want to do so in line with the legislation in force in our European environment, and we will do so, as Minister Campo himself said. We are going to do this, and the House will therefore have the opportunity to go into depth in this debate, but let me warn you in advance that, at least in judgment of what the Socialist Party represents, freedom of expression, like any fundamental right, is subject to certain limits, which are precisely the rights and freedoms of others. But those limits must be the same for all and, therefore, regulation must have as much support as possible, and the Government will certainly work to achieve the maximum consensus possible on this regulatory change. So far as freedom of expression is concerned. Next, I would like to refer to the violent episodes that have occurred in some cities over the past few days. The first thing I would like to say as President of the Government is that it has nothing to do with freedom of expression what we have seen on many streets in our country. The worst service that can be given to defending freedom of expression is the use of violence, and, in fact, there is nothing more opposed to any freedom in a democracy than the use of violence. Violence is not freedom, it is an attack on the freedoms of others, and therefore the Government is opposed to all kinds of violence, Mr Abascal, to violence on the streets, to violence against women, to violence against immigrants, to violence of all kinds in our country. [[Applauds]] And those who justify the use of violence as a means of drawing attention to a problem must tell them that violence is the worst propaganda for any cause because it attracts all attention to the violent act itself and diverts it from the real problems. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, no full democracy can protect, consent to, neglect violence, and Spain is a full democracy. In short, Spanish democracy protects the right to demonstration and freedom of expression - this is obvious - it even protects the expression of shocking and even infamous thoughts when we are talking about some figures that have been referred to by its lords, but what democracy does not, in any case and under no means, protect is no situation of violence. Once this has been said and before responding in detail to each group, I would like to draw attention to some points that have also been raised by your ladies and gentlemen, and the first is what brings us together here, which is the state of alarm and the management of the pandemic, and that is why I undertake to appear every two months. Therefore, what calls us is the state of alarm, an instrument that for the most part of the parliamentary groups has not been criticized, there is no criticism about it, which has allowed us, as I said in my first intervention, to save lives, to protect jobs, families, to take the most appropriate measures to bend the curve in the first wave, in the second wave, in the present that we live, and, logically - I also said in my first intervention - we cannot lower the guard, although, in fact, the incidence accumulated over the last few days has been much lower, 64% lower than a week earlier, as a result of the measures we are taking among all the administrations. I would also like to recall that there have been very important parliamentary groups in this House, such as, for example, the People's Parliamentary Group, who voted in favour of the first occasions of this state of alarm, but then radically opposed, claiming that the Government used this constitutional figure to violate democracy and act autonomously. That was the first criticism, ladies and gentlemen; then they followed others, curiously in the opposite direction. We were told earlier that we were an authoritarian government and now it seems that we are a government that disagrees, as Mrs Arrimadas says. When we applied co-governance in the fight against the second wave, it was simply to disagree, and before they said we were authoritarian. Ladies and gentlemen, the government had the sole command when the whole world - I insist, the whole world - was facing an unknown virus and we had to make quick, radical decisions to stop them from becoming infected, the collapse of our health system. With many of you I spoke precisely by videoconference in those difficult, complex days, and we even had to make very extreme decisions, such as, for example, that of unpaid leave for workers and hibernate, in short, much of our country's economy, except for essential services, precisely so that the ICUs do not collapse. Let us remember, therefore, that we were facing something absolutely unknown and had to take over in a much more decentralized way. And when the situation began to be under control and we began to know a little more about the behaviour of the virus, the nature of the virus and, therefore, we have some more certainties, we believed that the most effective thing was to co-governance and, therefore, to give a much more powerful development to Title VIII of our Constitution and to what we are mandated by the organic laws in the competition distribution; therefore, to reserve for the Government the decisions that correspond to the state sphere, as well as the functions of coordination, cooperation, collaboration, and to give the autonomous communities the power to modulate in their respective territories the general rules, adapting them to the intensity of the pandemic in each area. We even gave economic resources - here is the Minister of Finance, who has said it many times -. In other economic crises a kind of credit was given through the FLA. On this occasion, what we have done has been to transfer economic resources to the autonomous communities, as has not been done in any other crisis, which has been completely lost, and I believe that it also demonstrates the attitude of the Spanish Government towards the autonomous communities. Look, is it to disagree, ladies and gentlemen, to declare the state of alarm, which is one of the most severe measures that can be taken? I don't think so, and it's working. Is it a disagreement to establish the fundamental guidelines for the return to school and to give the autonomous communities the necessary funds, 16 billion euros, 2 billion euros, for our education system, which precisely makes us have the cumulative impact in the classrooms of our educational institutions by 0.7%? Consider what is happening in Portugal, France or the United States, where schools have not been opened for eleven months. Every day we open school here is a day we win the virus. [[Applauds]] That, ladies and gentlemen, we are doing it among all, and it has worked. Is it not to negotiate in Europe recovery funds and conditions that I believe are reasonable, favourable for the revitalization of the Spanish economy? I don't think so, which is the basis of our future. Is it a disagreement to announce EUR 11 billion to support, in this last Rubicón, that the productive sector in our country has to pass to businesses, the self-employed and the workers until we can enter a scenario of greater control of the pandemic as a result of vaccination? I don't think so, ladies and gentlemen. Nor is it a disagreement to negotiate and agree with the social partners on the extension of the ERTE until 31 May to sustain employment. And it's working, too, ladies and gentlemen. In 2020, economic activity in our country fell two digits, GDP, and the unemployment rate rose, according to data from the National Institute of Statistics, only one point. That has much to do with what has been done in unpublished answers, such as ERTE and ICO aids. And in this regard I also want to break a spear in favour of Europe, because we are talking about Europe in the centralised purchase of medicines - the vaccines in this case - the EUR 140 billion linked to the recovery fund, but also the unemployment reinsurance fund is a European decision, which is allowing thousands and thousands of jobs to be sustained in our country. Is it a disagreement, ladies and gentlemen, to promote a centralised purchasing strategy in the European Union, as I said before, or a national vaccination strategy in our country? Of course, we promise that by the end of this summer 70% of the Spanish population will be vaccinated. It is working, ladies and gentlemen, with all the difficulties, with all the logistical complexity involved in a vaccine that requires for its preservation and maintenance to be below -70 degrees. The impulse and development of that vaccine is working. And I would also like it not to be an element of reproach, but of political congratulations. To me, ladies and gentlemen, I am ashamed that there are comrades from my party or other parties who represent politics, taking advantage of their position. For this reason, they find and will always find my reproach. And from my mouth, ladies and gentlemen, you have never heard the reproach of any political party that has suffered the shame of having some political leader who has done that, because I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that is the bad example of politics at a time when we must claim the best of politics, the good policy. [[rumors]] We are doing this, for example, when in the European Union we have reached an agreement to give workers a horizon through the funding of ERTs, when we have for the first time raised a centralised purchase in the history of the European Union, anticipating economic resources for large pharmaceutical companies and research centres to give a record response. Listen, when I was sitting with the scientists at the beginning of the pandemic they were telling me that at least we would have to wait four to ten years to get an HIV vaccine, and we had it in less than twelve months, and that has a lot to do with politics and competition and the union of all the politicians and politicians in the European Union. [[Applauds]] The Government, ladies and gentlemen, has not been disconcerted at any time; on the contrary, it has led, acted and continues to act where it has to do so. And, of course, we are next to the autonomous communities in this trance that we are going through. And I would like to recall here that other political forces in this House are also accusing us of taking advantage of the pandemic to re-centralize and remove powers from the autonomous communities. It is good to remember these things because everything goes very fast and sometimes we forget about the serious accusations made from the rostrum, and this is a government that does not disagree neither centralized nor re-centralize, and what we do is co-rule, as a composite state that we are. It is true that it works best in those autonomous communities where there are better governments, but that is basically democracy. And, of course, I imagine that the citizens of the various territories will take note of the response that is being given by the autonomous governments and, no doubt, also by the Government of Spain. And the other point that I would like to share with you in general is that related to the rigour of data, data that some groups always question when they come here; the number of dead always rises. I have heard from the People's Party and UPN that 95 000 people have died. The VOX, the ultra-right, is something else, it's honor plate. We are very aware of the gravity of the situation and that is why we have put in place a series of measures that have no parallel in our history. Here are the ERTE, the benefits for self-employed people - I said earlier - we have already invested more than EUR 40 billion in this area. There are €16 billion in non-reimbursable transfers to the autonomous communities to finance health, dependency and education. In the coming months, I believe it will be crucial that all these resources are well managed, the EUR 11 billion we have raised today to your ladies and gentlemen and the vaccination strategy. We were talking about economic recovery before, and it is true that the year 2020 has suffered a very significant fall in our economic activity in terms of GDP, but it is also true, and it must be acknowledged, what the European Commission is saying right now, and that Spain is going to lead the economic recovery both this year and the following year. It has improved our country's economic forecasts by 5.6% for this year and by 5.3% for next year. Would we like it to be more? No doubt. That is why it is good that we have approved the General Budgets of the State, and it is good that we have recognised and anticipated in them the EUR 27 billion coming from the recovery fund that is due to us this year, because what we are going to do is to give a countercyclical response to this economic crisis. The tourism, hospitality and commercial sector has benefited from €41.5 billion of ICO credits, which have supported more than 256,000 companies in this area. Does this mean that the Government of Spain falls into self-congratulation? Not at all. We recognize the drama of the hoteliers, of the tourism sector, who see the recovery and reopening postponed. That is why we are announcing this new EUR 11 billion, so that we can sustain this definitive Rubicon of the pandemic. So far these sectors, ladies and gentlemen - when we talk about the tourism sector, the hospitality sector, the commercial sector - have absorbed some EUR 8500 million from the ERTE, which is currently providing shelter for more than half a million workers. The termination benefit has helped nearly 155 000 self-employed workers, mainly in the tourism, commercial and hospitality sectors, receiving around EUR 900. In addition, more than 150 000 self-employed persons have made use of mortgage debt moratoriums and loans without mortgage guarantee. On 22 December, a new plan to strengthen the hotel industry, the tourism sector and trade, with an additional €42 billion, was approved by the Government in a Council of Ministers. Anyway, it's data, it's figures, ladies and gentlemen. It can be said that it is insufficient, that it is suffering, and much, the tourism and hospitality sector, the culture sector, which is very rarely mentioned, but it must be remembered, but, ladies and gentlemen, we are dumping all the necessary economic and financial resources in order to be able to sustain in this difficult trance such important sectors also in generating employment in our country and in many territories. These are the data, these are the figures, and in politics I would like us to leave the speech empty, the bar free to say anything and stick to the data. In short, can we disagree? No doubt. Can you claim that such a party could have done things better, even wonderfully in the eyes of some of the interveners? No doubt. But what cannot be done is to deny the reality and the certain data that reflect it. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I shall reply to each of the speakers. I invite Mr Casado - I have done so in my first speech - to go together to the final stage of this misfortune, this calamity. I have asked him for the good of Spanish society, I think even for the good of his own party. I said it yesterday in the Senate and I say it today. This is not a government you have to consider as your enemy. We are not your enemies. I can assure you that it is not a government that is happy that you are getting things wrong in Catalonia or elsewhere. [[Laughter]] No, no, it is true, because I believe that an important, powerful centre-right is indeed needed to counter the emergence and growth of the ultra-right. But the truth is, I don't want to see him, or, as he usually happens to you, half way. If everything the government does is wrong with you, my question is: What's good with you? Did we do something right? What's the right path? What's your model? Is your model Galicia or your model Madrid? [[Rumors]] Mrs. Arrimadas, is your model Castilla y León or your model Madrid? What is Mr. Mañueco doing or what is Mrs. Ayuso doing, Mr. Married? At many times they are antagonistic policies. I don't say that, their own autonomous presidents say that, and they're all members of their party. You in Madrid have argued that it is less confined and in Galicia that it is more confined. In Castile and León they have come to advance the curfew, even without legal backing, forcing the Government of Spain to have recourse. And they have demanded the resignation of the former Minister of Health, Salvador Illa, and have also criticized him for having resigned. It has called for more competence for the autonomous communities, but it has also called for more centralisation by the Government of Spain. What are we left with, Mr. Casado? Yours is still an unsolved mystery. Your Honor, you have once again taken out the dead, as the ultra-right, Citizens and UPN do, in short everything that represents from the sociological point of view the right in this country. And I don't think that's a way of doing politics, Mr. Married. Let the ultra-right do it... But let you do it... [[Rumors]] It is to show very little empathy and very little sensitivity, Mr. Married. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u57	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u58	Neither in the pandemic nor in terrorism nor in any circumstance in political life is it lawful to parapet behind the dead. I think coexistence would win, also its party, if it stopped using the victims as a bold weapon. I'll tell you once again, Mr. Married, the victims are all of us. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] I will never have heard myself say it, I will never question whether such an autonomous community provides the correct data or not, whether it does it late or not. And, recognizing that we have lost more compatriots in some autonomous communities than in others, I will never ask you to think of how many of them the People's Party governs and then reflect on the barbarities that it says whenever it goes up to this rostrum precisely to reproach the deceased to the Government of Spain. [[Applauds]] And you know why I won't ask? Because in this drama we are all at the forefront and we must all unite to continue saving lives, because from the first moment I said that we would work in a coordinated way with all the autonomous communities and Europe, because this virus does not obey ideologies or votes or parties but leaves great consequences and confidence inequalities in our society that we have to fight, and because it is the unanimous desire - which I said in my first intervention - of the Spanish and Spanish, after twelve months, when they are exhausted and call for humanity to politics, generosity and responsibility, it is a unanimous cry on the part of Spanish citizens, and it is about taking this country forward, preventing this crisis from taking more lives, more jobs, more businesses, ultimately taking this country forward and ending this nightmare as soon as possible. And in the desire to move forward this country cannot compete in matches, I think we must show that we can all work together for recovery. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, we lead formations that defend different, sometimes opposite, political proposals, but together with the other 348 Members of this House, we represent millions of Spaniards and Spaniards who want to live together and have to live together. We must favour our formations and fight for our ideals, but not at the price of damaging coexistence, because we must live together. Your Honor, you give lessons here on the legitimacy of one or another political formation. I tell you this: the PP has a place in Spanish democracy. [[Protests]] Yes, it has a place in Spanish democracy.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u59	Ladies and gentlemen, please. Quiet. They cannot be constantly interrupting the speaker.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u60	I repeat, the PP has a place in Spanish democracy, as the rest of the political forces do, Your Honor. There are many Spaniards of conservative ideas, right-wing as you wish to call them who have the right to be represented, have the right to defend their ideas, to persuade others to achieve majority and govern. I am not happy, Your Honor, to see the People's Party disappear from entire territories of national geography, because I believe you have a place in Spanish democracy, but the PP must also respect the place of others. If you don't do it, the ultra-right is logical, there's your DNA, but if you don't do it, I don't think it's a receipt. He cannot declare any Government other than that of his party to be illegitimate. He cannot throw the dead into the face of the other parties because they are not his heritage, Your Honor, the dead are of all. And you can't appropriate the Constitution, as if you had lit it up. Welcome to the defence of the Constitution, Your Honor, welcome, but there are many other political parties - which I represent - that from the beginning we are fighting for democracy that the generations of Spanish and Spanish enjoy today. [[Applauds]] And you always use the Communist Party, the Social-Communist Government, as if it were a bit pejorative. It is precisely after what happened forty years ago in these Courts that I must tell you that the Communist Party of Spain has given the effort of many workers, of many young people, of many militants to enjoy democracy today. If Spain has a democratic Parliament today and the Francoist Courts do not sit in this House, it is thanks, among other things, to the Communist Party. [[Applauds]] Therefore, I invite you to spell out that rhetoric. Look, Mr. Married, the other day I was very worried about something you said. You have come to invoke the application of the Political Parties Act and, consequently, to drop a potential ban on the United We can into our democratic system. [[Mr. White Casado Makes Negative Signs]] Yes, you invoked the Party Law. [[Rumors]] Even if I'm surprised, this has happened. Of course, so many things happen, Your Honor, that everything seems to be losing importance, but this has it, because the far right does not say it, says the main opposition party. What is to be asked, ladies and gentlemen, is what you propose. Or are they just saying it to please a part of the electorate that's fighting the far right? All I'd like to ask you, Mr. Married, is who whispers these ideas in your ear, because they're not helping you. In any case, and with this I conclude, I advise you, Your Honor, to abandon that path of exaltation, because that is the path of perdition. It is good for you to talk about moderation, to appeal to the centre, as the spokesman for the Socialist Parliamentary Group has said before, but that has to be done with facts, Your Honor, and not just with words. Look at what your opposition to reject everything serves, because you're worth nothing, everything is wrong. I will tell you something indisputable: there has not been a mobilization of economic resources of similar support in the history of Spain - I think we can agree on that - EUR 200 billion, as I said before, 20% of gross domestic product. You say that instead of 11 billion euros, it's better than 13,000, or you say it's better than just 9 billion euros. But you don't serve 11,000 and 13,000 and 9 billion, you say not because what you want is 50 billion euros. And that's where you lose credibility, Your Honor; when you don't say where the 50 billion euros come from, you lose credibility, or, rather, when you say that you have to collect less taxes between high incomes, when you say that you don't have to be budget experts - to be aware that you have to add and subtract to know exactly that your figures don't match -, in the end what you're demonstrating is a lack of rigour. And he loses credibility again when he asks to confine himself in the morning and to distrust him in the afternoon. In short, Mr Casado, what I am asking you to do is to support the EUR 11 billion, which will be good for businesses, for the self-employed and for the small and medium-sized enterprises in our country. Mr Abascal, it is always a dilemma, because, as President of the Government - I am serious about it - I have to spend time and effort trying to get you out of the strange planet on which you live, an irrational, obscurantist planet, filled with hatred and falsehoods. You speak of the Chinese virus, the Masonic Jewish conspiracy that seems to be trying to control a new international order. [[Rumors]] He forgot to comment on Soros again. Today Soros has not appeared, I imagine that in the replica you will use George Soros. You even support Donald Trump's candidacy for the Nobel Peace Prize. So it's hard to take them seriously. The grotesque are the positions that you manifest and that do not conceal the gravity of what you represent. Look, there's a person from your party, two seats away from you, who has publicly defended QAnon, a group that claims that the State is a satanic sect that rapes children and subsequently kills and eats them. He did so when the followers of that group were on the front line of the assault on the United States Capitol. I think there is nothing more to say about this, except to ask Mrs Arrimadas and Mr Casado whether they believe that this is a real danger to Spanish democracy. [[Applauds]] Mr. Abascal and his party are talking about drug dealers. He doesn't like real Spain and what he aspires to is to clean up Spain. I believe that this simple expression of cleaning up Spain should serve to remind us of everything you represent, especially your local and autonomous government partners. It calls us the Government of ruin and death, Mr Abascal, and it is curious, it is paradoxical, because from the very beginning the ultra-right has opposed all the instruments we need to save lives in our country. They opposed the state of alarm, they opposed restrictions for the sake of a supposed freedom that is marred by this Masonic Jewish conspiracy that represents this Chavista social communist government, they opposed the confinement and, ultimately, everything that is worth protecting public health and the lives of the millions and millions of compatriots you claim to want to defend. And not only that, you encourage - and you have made reference to it in your intervention - irresponsible demonstrations, when most Spaniards collaborate to defeat the virus. And they say that the night restriction of movements is something typical of the 16th century, as I've heard one of their spokespersons say. They also say, ladies and gentlemen, that we are the government of ruin. I suppose it is because public debt has increased, of course, as it has increased in all global economies. But I remind you, Your Honor, that precisely with this public debt we are holding companies, we are holding jobs and we are helping at a very complex time a lot of companies and a lot of competitive economy before the pandemic to survive and regain momentum when the recovery begins. [[Applauds]] But when you talk about the 16th century and that we are taking such measures, do you really know what is prehistoric, Mr. Abascal? The prehistoric thing is to refer to a vice president as vice president and to deputies as deputies; that is prehistoric, Your Honor. [[Applauds]] In any case, now that we are talking about the risks of democracy, I believe - I repeat it loud and clear - that the far right is no joke and here it has again been mentioned in Mr Abascal's speech. It is a real threat, Mr Casado, Mrs Arrimadas, to Spanish democracy. It is a real threat, Mr. Married, Mrs. Arrimadas, a real threat to democracy, much more real and powerful than the fantasies that you stir up in your attempts to weaken the current Executive, as you let the real danger to our country continue to grow at your feet. This is the problem, ladies and gentlemen. By the way, before the CUP made reference to the electoral results of the ultra-right in Catalonia, saying little less that they have taken over the ultra-rightist theses. I just want to remind you of one thing, Your Honor. The first political force in Catalonia is the Socialist Party of Catalonia, which presented itself with an agenda for the reunion and the overcoming of the trauma and political crisis of 2017. [[Applauds]] If we add what was represented by the People's Party, Citizens and the ultra-right then not existing in the Parliament of Catalonia were forty seats; today they represent twenty seats. Clearly, Your Honor, there are a majority of Catalans and Catalans who bet on the non-confrontation and the reunion between Catalans. Apply the tale, Your Honor, and bet on that reunion and cohabitation. [[Applauds]] Mr Echenique, I believe that, indeed - it has been said by the Socialist Group - we are two different political groups, this is no secret. We have different traditions, of course; we share the same agenda of social justice, of extension of rights. I believe that we have demonstrated, and I said it clearly yesterday, an unequivocal commitment to that social justice, to that protection of employment and also of health. It is obvious, I have said on many occasions, that we have to apply that quote from Cervantes that I have used on many occasions that 'experience is the mother of science'. Yesterday I said it in the Senate and today I want to say it to your ladies and gentlemen: I am satisfied with the functioning, milestones, facts and policies adopted by the coalition government. No one can be absolutely satisfied, but I am reasonably satisfied; I am satisfied that I have extended the ERTE until 31 May, that I have incorporated the moratorium on evictions, that I have promoted policies to combat gender-based violence, that I have made an unequivocal bet on strengthening the welfare state, on science, on innovation, on research. Ladies and gentlemen, my duty is undoubtedly to work for the stability of Spain and my responsibility is to work for the unity of the progressive forces, and that is what I will do throughout this parliamentary term. That is my responsibility and that of all of us who are committed to this endeavour, ladies and gentlemen, especially at a time of great turmoil for Spanish society. We would all like to do more and we would also like to do them faster, but I think we need to combine the demand with realism, especially now that we have two years ahead without electoral processes - unless electoral processes are anticipated in some territory - and obviously we will have time to work with something more calm and quiet. I say this from the point of view of electoral demands. There are those in this House, Mr Echenique, ladies and gentlemen of the United Nations We can, what they do not want and do not accept is that their formation and mine occupy the blue seats; this is the key, this is the real problem. Therefore, what we have to do is continue to move forward and work as we have done so far, debating, of course, yes!, proposing, reaching the consensus that will truly improve the lives of the Spanish and Spanish, and also, why not say so, Mr Echenique, reducing the decibels a little bit. That never goes wrong, and so does the Executive and parliamentary groups. I believe that our differences have to be used to make - and you have said - better public policies. Let us show that in these differences there is also the strength of the Spanish Government, which is what you said in your speech and I can only applaud. [[Applauds]] I would like to tell Mr Rufián about Hasel and the demonstrations we have seen that I believe I have made clear what my interpretation of the facts is and where the Spanish Government is going in the coming months. I defend the police performance of the Mossos d'Esquadra, Your Honor. It is not the police of the Government of Spain, it is the police of the Government of Catalonia, but I defend it; I believe it is very important that the political leaders, and above all those forces that are degovernment - as you indicated -, defend the work of all the forces and bodies of State security and therefore also that of the Mossos d'Esquadra. I share with you that, indeed, we have to make an effort to land the debate and the policies on a percentage of our not smaller, very important population, which is the future, which is young people. I believe that in my first speech I have made a reflection on recognizing the responsibility of most young people in our country, something far removed from the distorted image that we can sometimes see on television. I would also like to say that, from the point of view of the Spanish Government, we are working on three fronts, which I have tried to point out in my first speech. Firstly, all that has to do with education and vocational training. The General Budgets of the State, which you also approved - and I would like to thank you for this - make a strong, unprecedented bet on the scholarships in our country and also on the modernisation and updating of vocational training. On many occasions - the Minister of Education and Vocational Training tells me - if we reduce school drop-out rates - because this is the drama, that there are many young people between twenty and twenty-five years who do not have any kind of job opportunity right now because they do not have training - I am convinced, Your Honor, that we will also be reducing the youth unemployment rate. It seems to me, therefore, that combining vocational training by enhancing dual vocational training and by promoting all accreditation and qualification strategies in the field of workers and the unemployed is of paramount importance. Alongside this, second, housing policies. We are, of course, going to pass a housing law, we are going to come to an agreement with the various groups that form this coalition government. We hope to have the support of the parliamentary majority in this House, but we are already taking steps in that direction, Your Honor. Just over ten days ago, along with the Sareb and the financial sector, it announced an increase in the social housing stock throughout the country. I believe that this housing law has to incorporate, in addition to some of the issues that you refer to, many others, such as, for example, that public assets should be defended and that, therefore, they should not fall - as happened after the financial crisis and as a result of the conservative governments - many of these public housing units are in the hands of investment funds that clearly do not comply with social criteria. Thirdly, everything we have to do in the field of the labour market. I have spoken to the Minister of Labour many times about this; it is clear that we need to reformulate the training contract and, in this regard, I believe that we can do much in the Social Dialogue and in this House. On the Government of Catalonia, Your Honor, I believe that the conclusion to be drawn - at least that is what I have and I also believe it; this is not that it is politically correct, I believe it - is that there are two clear readings in Catalonia. The first reading is that the political forces that are betting on reunion and dialogue have won; I think we can agree that. Secondly, there is a large majority in the Catalan Parliament who wants an exit from the economic crisis on the left. Therefore, in this sense, Your Honor, I think it would be very good if we knew that will for reunion and progress, also in the formation of a government that, in my opinion, would be very good that will lead the winner of the elections, who is Salvador Illa and the Socialist Party of Catalonia. To Mrs Nogueras, from Junts per Catalunya, I must express my amazement at some of the things she says. He tells me we whitened the far right, but have you heard Mr. Abascal? As much as it is committed, I would like to say it again from this rostrum, I have also said it in campaign and I say it every time they ask me -, Spain wants Catalonia; Spain wants Catalonia, and I am also convinced that Catalonia wants Spain. [[applause]] [[Applauds]] It is therefore unclear to me your concept of what represents an electoral triumph, Your Honor. Listening to you, it would seem that you won the elections on 14 February, when the only certainty to date, Your Honor, the only certainty to date is that you have lost the Presidency of the Generalitat of Catalonia. I think we can agree on that, can't we? We have been talking for a while about vaccination, about the end of the pandemic, about the management of the European Recovery Funds, that is, about the future, and you - at last - are trying to perpetuate a past that you brought to Catalan society on 14 February as a result of your inability to agree on the appointment in the Catalan Parliament of a new president. And I would like, Your Honor, to dwell on the mathematical question. It's no longer a 51, it's a 52% you said. Look, Your Honor, laws, rules, in any democracy in the world can be passed by a simple majority or a qualified majority, and not only the autonomous communities or organic laws such as autonomy statutes, but even on the boards of neighbors the law establishes qualified majorities for some decisions of structural changes or of singular significance, I imagine you will know well. So you stop agitating the 51% that you have achieved independence in the elections of 14 February, first, because it is false in itself, there was no plebiscite last 14 February, Your Honor. Secondly, because that 51 % does not even correspond to 30 % of the total census that has been the average of independence, but to 23 %; that is to say, they have fallen seven points, Your Honor. They want to endorse any process of structural change with that social support; it is more than questionable from a democratic point of view, Your Honor. And thirdly, because what democratic law does not allow is not going to get you by twisting mathematics, Your Honor. You will not be able to impose your vision of what Catalonia has to be on the other half of Catalans and Catalans. What the Catalans voted on on 14 February was, in the majority, an agenda for the reunion and a left-wing exit to the economic, social and health crisis in Catalonia. [[Applauds]] That is why it would be good if there was a progressive government in Catalonia. At some point, I think they'll have to move on, and this may be a good time; first, assuming their defeat democratically instead of trying to take advantage of other people's triumphs that are not theirs. Second, understanding the historical moment, which imposes on us the urgent need to land on reality, and the reality is the jobs, are the contagions, are the UCI beds in Catalonia, is the strengthening of the National Health System, social protection; in short, manage the real problems of citizenship. It is also, of course, coexistence, but we can do so by recognizing exactly what the Catalans and Catalans told us on 14 February, not distorting. I must also say to you, Your Honor, that I was amazed when you heard a representative of a right-wing party say - you have heard it not in this speech but in some others, but also some other accredited spokespersons from Junts per Catalunya - in short, of a conservative formation like yours, to say that this government wants European funds to benefit the evil companies of IBEX. Let that tell me a right-wing party already seems to me to be of note, Your Honor. [[Applauds]] Finally, I know that the independence cause forces you to give yourself a dubious progressive varnish, but I believe that coherence must be maintained at least, Your Honor. The reality is that these funds to which they are going to benefit are small and medium-sized enterprises, the self-employed, as, by the way, the ICO funds have also done. I simply remind you of one fact: 71,000 autonomous and autonomous companies in Catalonia have received direct aid, such as the extraordinary benefits implemented by the Government; the ERTEs are protecting the employment of more than 38,000 Catalan companies, and with regard to the Reconstruction Plan, the implementation of the axes specifically envisages actions on the fabric of small and medium-sized enterprises in Catalonia. This very week you will have seen that the Government of Spain is working not only for the transformation and modernization of the automotive sector throughout the country, but also in particular in Catalonia. As for the outcome of your comments on freedom of expression and on the democratic quality of our country... man, what do you want me to say to you?!, you support any cause, any, even the furthest away from your ideological postulates with such bleak situations of social conflict. You, Your Honor, are the inventors of the squeeze against your own government. In short, each one has to assimilate defeats in the way he thinks is most convenient. You can continue to offer an agenda of rupture, of imposition; we will continue to work for dialogue, for reunion, focused on the task of winning the future from a progressive and egalitarian government action in line with the European guidelines. I would like to thank Mr Bel wholeheartedly, because it was very difficult times, the support for the state of alarm, this state of alarm, which clearly supports the co-governance to which you referred earlier. Man, you can say that these measures are insufficient - I mean from the complementary point of view - but they are 40 billion euros in what we have been doing for the year and until 31 May in the ERTE, they are more than 100 billion euros deployed in ICO credits, the measures we have taken to extend the periods of deficiency, also the payment of these credits, the suspension of the rule of expenditure in the autonomous communities and in the local corporations so that they can also implement direct action measures. I believe, Sir, that we could say that we would have to involve many more economic resources, but it cannot be said that this government has not done what many other governments in Europe are doing, by the way. A week ago, a report was presented by the European Central Bank, where it was said that Spain, if we also incorporated ERTE, had been one of the countries that had invested the most economic resources precisely in solving the economic and social impact of this pandemic. To Mr Errejón I would say that we do not rule against anyone; we do not rule against the right, we rule despite the right, if I may have the shade. And that, as I said in my initial intervention, we have all gained certainty in the face of the uncertainty of the pandemic. I share with you that we cannot lower the guard - I think I have been clear in my first intervention - that the goal is not to save Holy Week, but to have cumulative incidences of fourteen days below 50 cases per 100,000 inhabitants. We are very far away, here in Madrid we are very far away and obviously we must not lower our guard. We must continue to implement the vaccination strategy and, of course, Your Honor, you will be able to criticize me for many things, but you cannot criticize this government for lack of climate ambition. The Vice-President of Ecological Transition herself has been recognized by the United Nations as one of the leaders precisely in the field of ecological transition, and that must be a source of pride, even if she is a Socialist Party activist, for the whole government and its lords, among other things, because when she ruled the right we knew what this commitment to ecological transition implies, nothing. Obviously, as the spokesman for the Socialist Parliamentary Group has said, all the issues that have to do with the legislative agenda are being implemented even in the midst of the pandemic. You have made reference to the issue of mental health. Speaking to the Minister of Health, I was reminded that we are already immersed in the updating of the mental health strategy, which is already being discussed with the autonomous communities, and I hope that we will soon be able to channel this new mental health strategy. Of course, I share with you that this is one of the main challenges ahead. I would like to say to Mr Baldoví - perhaps I did not understand correctly - that the target population was the first groups that I mentioned in my first intervention, older people who were in the elderly residences, the socio-health staff of the elderly residences and the health professionals who were on the front line, but, once that whole list of target populations has been covered, the vaccines are now being distributed - the Minister of Health will correct me if I am wrong - precisely on the basis of population criteria. Therefore, simply incorporate this shade. And of course, you can and do well to remind us of our tasks of autonomous financing, but you cannot deny that the Government of Spain during the year 2020 has given an unprecedented response to transfers of economic resources to the autonomous communities, and I also say this with a very important hue: in absolute agreement with their competences and with absolute justice. Because it is obvious that if today we have a cumulative incidence in the classroom of 0.7%, and therefore less than 1%, it has much to do with the good doing of the autonomous communities, of the educational community and, you will also recognize it, of the Government of Spain. I would like to say to Mr Rego that I regret that we cannot cooperate, that he has such a negative view, such a rejection and such a confrontation with this progressive government, and that he even has doubts about vaccination by saying that we do not share vaccines equitably when it is not true, Your Honor. We're doing and ensuring a fair distribution... - you'll say no, I tell you yes, Your Honor... - of the vaccines and we have a state strategy to fight the various waves of COVID that we've approved with the autonomous communities. [[Mr. Rego Candamil makes negative signs]] Therefore, I do not think that we are leaving any territory behind and that it is also fair to recognise it. Mrs. Arrimadas has asked me some direct questions. You will allow me, Mrs Arrimadas, to reflect on you later. As for the specific questions that you have asked me, hospital pressure, murder and variants, I completely agree, they are still very high and we are therefore calling for the prudence of all the autonomous governments. I would like you, Your Honor, for example, in the Community of Madrid to tell the President of the Community and her advisers that, perhaps, the descalation that is being raised when we are above 380 cases per 100 000 inhabitants is too rapid, too light and unaccountable, given the health situation in Madrid. We would have to be much more cautious and perhaps you could contribute not only from this rostrum, but also by talking to your public officials. As for coherence, Your Honor, I do not know whether you are keeping it in Castile and León and in the Community of Madrid, what I can tell you is that we have adopted a state strategy with the help of the Autonomous Communities and that the answer is obviously asymmetric because the reality of the pandemic is asymmetric, not only in relation to the Autonomous Communities, but also to the various provinces. With regard to sequencing, for a few weeks now we have been working with the Autonomous Communities, in addition to a communication from the European Commission itself which urges us to have a sequencing capacity of more than 5% - between 5% and 10% - mainly linked to these variants. As a result, we have opened a procedure to integrate all these sequencing processes and create a network of laboratories in all the autonomous communities coordinated by the Ministry of Health. And I would also like to say - as Minister Duque, the Minister of Science and Innovation reminded me - that the Carlos III Institute is working on this in order to increase our sequential samples from 250 to 700. That is true, if we reduce the number of infections, it will obviously cause us to move from 3% in a few weeks to 5%, which is what the European Union is doing to us. I agree with the political criticism that makes public officials who have used their post to immunize themselves early. I stress once again that the commitment of the Government of Spain is that in the first half of the year we will reach 20 million people vaccinated in our country. I've said it before. Starting in April, in the second quarter of the year, there are going to be a lot more vaccines coming in than they are coming in now and some of them are very important because they are of a dose, like the Janssen vaccine. And I share with you, of course, the discomfort we have with some particular pharmacists, who are not complying with the contract. On mental health, I have answered Mr Errejón, so I answer his question, and also with regard to the economic situation and economic recovery in 2021 and 2023. But I'd like to reflect on you, Mrs. Arrimadas, quite bluntly. You, on many occasions, come up to this rostrum and invoke useful politics, talk a lot about useful politics and that Citizens are to help, to make politics useful. I wish it were, Your Honor, I recognize it. I wish it were. I hope you will make a useful policy, because when the moment of truth comes, Your Honor, you always change the useful policy for small politics, which is that of the right-wing primaries. It's a shame, I'm telling you honestly. Look, Your Honor, you have no rational way of explaining your negative vote to the royal decree-law by which we establish the governance of European funds. You don't have a rational vote; you don't, Your Honor. There is nothing more to see than the excuses that have been given in various interventions - today too - from this rostrum. He accuses us of avoiding the Congress of Deputies' control over the execution of European funds. Article 22 of Royal Decree-Law 36/2020, which you voted against, entitled Accountability to the General Courts, reads as follows: The Government shall report quarterly on the progress and progress of the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan to the Joint Commission for the European Union of the General Courts. I think it seems quite clear, Your Honor, that we are pushing that accountability, as it could not be otherwise. On your repeated proposal to set up an independent fund management agency, do you really believe, Your Honor, that this is a useful policy? But do you know the state and the composition of the state in our country? Do you think that we are going to lighten the absorption of these resources precisely by centralizing it in an absolutely composite state, having very much of the competences decentralized, for example, in the field of housing, for example in the field of social policies linked to the care economy? Public money is managed by the public administration, which is for that reason, Your Honor, and what it is about is to achieve public management as agile and as effective as possible, which is precisely what this royal decree-law envisaged with revolutionary, innovative measures for the adaptation of the public administration to the demands of these new European funds. It is also proposed to create forums for participation, high-level groups of conversation, not only between the Government and interest groups, but also companies. Finally, I believe, Your Honor, that we have set up a governance of recovery funds that is absolutely transparent and aligned with what they are demanding from Europe. In addition, I have to tell you one thing, ladies and gentlemen, that thanks to these talks we are having with Brussels, the European Commission states that the Government of Spain is one of the most advanced Member States in the preparation of this recovery plan, which is, of course, the best recovery plans being presented by the Member States. [[Applauds]] I think that would be a source of pride for all the parliamentary groups, not just those who support this government. In any case - I told you in the previous session of control - I believe that the ultra-right poses a real risk to Spanish democracy, Your Honor, not those who are invented by you, a real risk, and therefore agree with the ultra-right, Your Honor, it does not come free to either the People's Party or you. You have lost 30 seats in the Parliament of Catalonia, Your Honor; you have gone from 36 seats to 6, and you rise to the rostrum as if you heard rain. Has nothing happened in Spanish politics, in Catalonia, with Citizens, for you to go up here, to the rostrum, and change even the tone, Your Honor, of your interventions? Sanchez's band, really, Your Honor, are we still like this? But that's Rivera's! [[Laughs.-Applause.]] You said: neither red nor blue. And his predecessor became the most enthusiastic of the blues. They promised to make a pact to the right and to the left, and in the end they ended up making a pact with the far right and with the right. They were not useful in making the changes that society demanded precisely in autonomous communities such as Madrid, such as Murcia, such as Castile and León. You supported the People's Party and the ultra-right not having won the elections in Andalusia because you said you wanted to change a government that had ruled for thirty years from a single party, which is the Socialist Party. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u61	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u62	Why didn't you do that in Madrid, Castile and León and Murcia? Why didn't they? Why didn't you, Your Honor? Why do they continue to support the People's Party and the far right? You, Your Honor, have tried almost everything; in your short life you have tried almost everything. What I'm proposing for once is that you try out the only thing you haven't tried: How about if you really dare behave like a center game, Mrs. Arrimadas? [[Applauds]] I do not know, I do not know whether it will be possible or not, but there may indeed be room in Spanish society for a center party that draws a health cord to the far right and not to social democracy in this country. There may be a space in Spain for a party that facilitates governability and does not strive to deny the legitimacy of the election result. There may be room for a party to bury the incendiary and divisive rhetoric that you pose whenever you come up here talking about Sanchez's gang and all the disqualifications it poses to legitimate parties. There may be room in Spain for a center party that is not a centralist and that respects the territorial and cultural diversity of Spain as a wealth and does not consider it a threat to the prosperity of our country. You have already tried almost everything, Your Honor: you have agreed with the far right, with the right... Why don't you prove what you haven't tried, really become a center party, put a health cord on the far right and take it off the social democracy in our country? With regard to this government's commitment to the protection of our business and productive fabric linked to the tourism sector, I believe that we have made this clear, and I will give you a simple fact: in January 53% of the workers in the ERTE were workers linked to tourism and hospitality. Your Honor, 148 000 of these workers at ERTE are directly linked to air transport, travel agencies and also to tourist accommodation. There is no better demonstration of our priority attention to the tourism sector than to reinforce it with a total budget of EUR 1350 million in general state budgets which you refused to support; the largest investment in tourism in our history, Mrs Arrimadas, almost 300 % more than in the budgets which you approved together with Mr Rajoy when he ruled the People's Party. And so much we can say about the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan, and so much we can say about the EUR 11 billion I announced in this forum, and so much we can say about that 20% of the gross domestic product mobilized during this long year of pandemic. That, obviously, we could have done things better? Certainly, but what you cannot deny, Your Honor, is that this Government is committed to very important sectors for certain territories and also for the functioning of our economy. I only give you a thought, Mrs. Arrimadas: Do you see how good social democracy is? See how he can do good things? Therefore, I ask you to reconsider your position and let Citizens prove what you have not yet proved, which is really being a center party. Mr Esteban, spokesman for the Basque Nationalist Party, I want to say that I agree with him. I think we have to focus the debate on the pandemic, because this is not a debate on the state of the nation. About the vaccination, there's the data. The doses delivered to the autonomous communities - as I said in my first intervention - are 3623 000, doses administered by almost 87%, 3165 000; the full schedule is 1208 305. We started vaccination on 27 December, with all the complexity in distribution and logistics. Finally, I believe that, of course, you are absolutely right: the problem is not the National Health System, it is not the autonomous communities, as far as the supply of the doses is concerned, but, indeed, the provision of the doses. That's the difficulty, the bottleneck - if I may say so - that we have with some pharmaceuticals. But, well, I think the data is there and we have to remember them. I have said this in my first speech and, if I may, I repeat it again. The European Commission has signed contracts with six pharmaceutical companies for the acquisition of up to 2265 million doses. The Council of Ministers has already authorized the acquisition of 126 million doses of these five vaccines. We are putting forward an international vision of solidarity with all this challenge that represents the vaccination of humanity as a whole. Then I will talk about Covax, because you have asked me some direct questions on this issue, but we approved on 19 January last, in the Council of Ministers, the plan for universal access to solidary vaccination. We have participated from the outset in the ACT Accelerator project, we are part of the facilitation council, we are part of the Covax partnership and the European Union's donation mechanism. I believe that we are demonstrating both within and outside our solidarity. On the vaccination certificate, I have to say that the Government of Spain is pushing forward within the European Council. There are some countries that today have their doubts, I think rather because of the variations and, therefore, the implications that these variants may have on the curve of contagion in their countries, but we are aware that we have to push it forward. I would also like to emphasise and remind you, although you know this, that at OECD level, when we saw the OECD General Assembly last year, we promoted a multilaterally orderly opening up, with common schemes for testing PCRs, quarantines and opening up borders beyond the European Union. We are working at OECD level on this issue. We have approved, as you know, the compulsory CRPs carried out in the seventy-two hours prior to arrival in Spain. Indeed, you have given in to the nail when you raised the difficulties in this House - I think also for a misconception of using the pandemic as a weed of the Government of Spain - to discuss any potential change in the state of alarm. But I'll tell you one thing. Viewed in perspective, I believe that the autonomous communities - and we talked a lot with them and I talked to the Minister of Health - have had a letter of instruments, of tools to contain, with this current state of alarm, the curve of contagions. On many occasions Dr. Simon, the director of CAES, has said this: it is not so much to approve more and more measures, but to effectively implement the measures and in the right time. We have approved - you know - a state strategy to combat the different waves of the COVID, which had three pillars: the first, the common indicators, to be able to assess daily the evolution of the pandemic; the second, the measures, and the third, time sufficient to be able to see the effectiveness of these measures, which we gave ourselves, because science told us so, fourteen days. I understand that many autonomous communities - as well as us with the first state of alarm, back in March - had the pressure to adopt more and more measures, but that can even mislead and hinder the necessary communication of the autonomous governments with the citizens. What do I mean by that? That on many occasions not by adopting more measures we will be more effective against the virus, but it is better to know what measures we have to implement to cut the infection curve. On Covax, I would like to say that Spain has indeed contributed EUR 70 million and that the first doses have already arrived in Ghana; I have just been informed by the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Cooperation and the European Union. Precisely, the Secretary of State will be present in this African country to transfer our support, and tomorrow, which we will have the opportunity to talk about the pandemic at the European Council, I will continue to advocate for the greatest solidarity from Europe with the rest of the countries. Mrs Aizpurua, I share with you the empathy that we must show all political leaders not to lower their guard, that the goal is not to save Easter or Christmas; our goal is to have a cumulative incidence of less than 50 cases per 100,000 inhabitants. We are talking about a challenge and an ambitious objective, but that is what the health authorities have set for us. Therefore, although we are now below 250 cases, it is not enough, and we have to continue with the restrictive measures. Look, I gave you the reason for my first speaking shift, because I said that, indeed, the descalation in the first wave was - now, seen in perspective - very hasty and probably - what I said to Mr Esteban - has been hasty, among other things, because - and here we live then - the pandemic was used by different parliamentary groups and by different autonomous governments as an element of wear and tear and confrontation with the Government of Spain. I would also like to recall what the Director of the World Health Organization said then. He said the worst thing against the pandemic was division and non-unity and the use of the pandemic as a weapon of political and party confrontation. In that sense, now that we are already in this final line of the pandemic, I believe that we do not have to lower our guard and we have to appeal to that unity of all, because we obviously have a very important task ahead of us. The pandemic has changed the international order. It plays the role of the European Union in that international order and changes the means of development, competitiveness and, consequently, the prosperity of societies - there is the ecological transition and the digital transition - that threefold integration perspective given by the Spanish Government - social, territorial and gender - to these two transitions that we are going to push with the recovery funds. Therefore, the question to be asked to the rest of the parliamentary groups, Your Honor, is that. Have they been confronting during the pandemic, during the worst of the pandemic, and now that we are going to start economic recovery and, therefore, the transformation and conversion of our economic system, will they contribute or will they continue to block, reject and oppose not the Government of Spain, but the general interest of all citizens? I think that is the question that some people will have to answer - not by other parliamentary groups - and in this context I wanted to make this distinction, if I may, about unity. You will say that the response to the economic crisis is insufficient. Good. But I cannot deny that this is a government which, in the two and a half years that it has carried - before in solitary and now in coalition - has raised the interprofessional minimum wage by 29%, Your Honor, 29%. There is no country in our environment that has raised the minimum wage by 29%. Pensions have been raised and what we want to do is to develop precisely what has been agreed by your ladies and gentlemen in the Committee on the Toledo Pact. To deny that we have a challenge in the sustainability of the public pension system is to put our ears on and, therefore, from a progressive perspective, we will have to respond to it. The European response, you will be able to criticize it, but the ERTEs are being financed with European resources, Your Honor. Recovery funds will also be financed from European resources, which are ultimately the resources of everyone. I mean, there's a ransom for people, to say it plain and plain. Or the minimum living income. It will be possible to criticise the minimum living income in terms of its development, but we have already covered more than 140,000 households, almost half a million people; we are in February 2021 and we have launched the minimum living income in the middle of last year. Therefore, man, the efforts being made by the Spanish Government in this area, in addition to the approved budgets, are very considerable. I cannot agree with you, Your Honor, on one thing you said. I believe that the lesson we have to learn from this crisis is that we have to strengthen the multilateral order, we have to strengthen the European project and, therefore, what we have to do is not so much question the competences of the State's public administration as to improve collaboration, cooperation and coordination between the various administrations. One of the things I liked most about this whole process - of course, the presidents' conferences, which I am convinced we can improve a lot - has been the interterritorial council, which we can certainly improve a lot, but it is the heart of governance in this pandemic. I have also liked to include the Spanish Federation of Municipalities and Provinces in the governance of the funds, in the sectoral conferences at which these funds are to be designed. In short, often what theorists tell you is that we have a decentralized state, but with very little federal or autonomous culture, and I think that's what we're trying to push, I hope sometimes with more success than mistakes. Madam spokesman for the UPC, I believe that in the area of young people I have responded to what Mr Rufián said earlier. On the reading of the vote, whatever you want me to say to you, Your Honor, I believe that you have won precisely moderation, dialogue and the left. In that sense, you who say so much that this is a very conservative Government, I do not know very well how you feel about pacting with the Catalan right, the Catalan right of all life, if so left-wing. Mrs Oramas, at last, I regret that you have that vision of the Government of Spain, which is expressed in such harsh terms of shame towards the Government of Spain. This government, with its mistakes and successes, Mrs Oramas, has approved a plan to strengthen hospitality, tourism and trade, which, I recall, has an amount of €4220 million. It is a Government that has made available to the Canary Islands authorities, through the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Inclusion and Social Security, the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Transport, resources, material and land to deal with the migration crisis in the Canary Islands. I feel challenged by this migration crisis and you will also be able to understand that it is not the same thing to manage returns and migration policy with a pandemic that without a pandemic, because borders are closed. I think it does not do justice anymore I do not say to the action of the Government, because I understand its opposition work, justice is not done. I don't recognize you in the things you say and in the way you say them from this rostrum, Your Honor. I thought that you, as a party of government that have been in the Canary Islands and that are in different municipalities, raised a somewhat more solid opposition and reflections, away from the ex-abrupt and the disqualifications, that I believe they do you no favour. I would like to thank Mr Quevedo, because I believe that his vision of co-governance is important. The co-governance at the end of the crisis will be carried out. I believe that we need to consolidate a federalist culture of cooperation, collaboration and coordination in the field of sectoral conferences. In the area of migration, this Government does not disagree with the crisis in the Canary Islands and logically shares with you the use that is being made by some political forces that go there precisely to flout the most basic instincts and the most ancestral fears that are being held by certain groups. Mr. Sayas, what to say. Of course, there's a state strategy for COVID-19. You say there isn't and I tell you there is. In short, I do not say so; you speak with the Autonomous Government of Navarre. Maybe you don't like the Autonomous Government of Navarre. Talk to the Government of Castile and León, the Government of Madrid, the Government of Galicia or the Government of Euskadi. Of course there is a state strategy, Your Honor, to contain the contagion curve and also for vaccination. Of course there is, Your Honor. We were the second country in the European Union, together with Germany, to approve a state vaccination strategy, a state strategy in which we started working in September with the autonomous communities. Discussing the obvious and disputing falsehoods... what do you want me to tell you, Your Honor? We have a state vaccination strategy and we have a state strategy against COVID-19. He says we don't have a country project. We have a country project, another thing is that you don't like it. Of course, we have a country project, which goes through the ecological transition, the digital transition, the strengthening of the welfare state and a threefold inclusive gender and territorial and social perspective of these transitions. So much so that we are being recognized by the European Commission when it says that Spain is one of the most advanced countries in that country plan, which is the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan. Sometimes, Your Honor, I am surprised by the little confidence you have in yourself. If we come to an agreement with other political groups present here to renew the governing body of the judges or the Spanish Broadcasting Council, we will vote for it among all. Therefore, I do not know very well why you say that we meet in dark rooms where I do not know what we do. You're going to vote for it, ladies and gentlemen. And so much so that you and the lords of Citizens are beating each other in the chest, saying that you are very constitutionalistic, more constitutionalistic than those we were from the beginning in the Constitution? I'm glad you're more constitutionalists, because that means the right has passed that Rubicon and you're definitely constitutionalists, but man! Do you think it's bad news to renew the General Council of the Judiciary, Your Honor? Do you think it's bad news to renew the Spanish Broadcasting Council? You, who have made such a fervent reflection on democracy, will know that in a moment of economic, social and health crisis such as the one we are experiencing logically, it is to strengthen public institutions, and I hope, I cross my fingers - because it will not be because of the lack of will of the majority group in this House, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group - that we reach an agreement before then in the renewal of these organs so important for the proper functioning of our democracy. I thank Mr Mazón for his support and reflection on unity. Without a doubt, Mr Mazón, vaccination is the first priority for the Government of Cantabria and for the Government of Spain, for any Government it is. You have no doubt, Your Honor, that I am awaiting this twenty-four hours a day, seven days a week. With regard to information - I have previously forgotten to comment on a reflection made by Mr Esteban, the spokesman for the Basque Nationalist Party - it is clear that we are transferring information to the Autonomous Communities on the basis of the information that we are being transferred, in this case, by the large pharmaceutical companies. But in the case of Pfizer-BioNTECH vaccines, I have to tell you that communities are four or five weeks ahead of the amount of doses that reach each of the territories. I think I also answered your question when I answered Mr Baldoví about the priorities of the target population. I share with you that we have to vaccinate in record time. Here it is questioned, even if it is very ambitious, that we can reach the end of the summer with 70% of the Spanish population vaccinated, but that is our commitment and we will try to make it happen in the shortest possible time. Mr. Martínez Oblanca, I'm simply reflecting on you. You go up to the rostrum and get your chest out that you voted against the state of alarm. If you get your chest out of voting against the state of alarm, there is proof of the null will, the null commitment you have. The truth is that it's quite paradoxical, because it sounds to me like you're a healthcare professional, although you're here on behalf of a political party in Asturias. I should like to draw your attention to the fact that you are voting against a constitutional and therefore legitimate instrument that so many lives have saved in our country over the past 12 months. [[Applauds]] I say to Mr Guitarte that he should take note of some of the issues he has raised with regard to the vaccination strategy. We must also rely on the technical presentation, we must rely on the Public Health Commission, where there are no political leaders but technical leaders from the autonomous communities. It is therefore necessary to rely on your knowledge and technical judgement. I have said this in my first speech, Your Honor, to this Government what has guided it is not superstition, but science. I am giving you this reflection because there have been some parliamentary groups that have not in this debate, but on some other occasions they have criticized the Spanish Government for not extending the AstraZeneca-Oxford vaccine to those cohorts over fifty-five years of age. We have done so because we want to be absolutely rigorous on this issue. We have done this because clinical trials show that this vaccine is effective among those under the age of fifty-five, an efficacy of 60%. Therefore, if within a few months the clinical trials that are made public show that this vaccine can also be effective in those cohorts older than fifty-five years, obviously we will. Therefore, very rigorously, I know that you have it and that you share it with us. I finish, Madam President, first of all by thanking your ladies and gentlemen. I also thank again - I will never forget - all the health workers, our teachers, our teachers and every person who is working on the front of this pandemic; also the self-employed, entrepreneurs and workers who are proving to have infinite patience and incomparable resistance. I would also like to thank the public servants, civil servants and civil servants who are working against the clock from their posts in Spain, in these General Courts and also in Europe. With their experience and knowledge they are putting in place the plans and strategies that I mentioned during my appearance. I would like to end by recalling two dates, a little in line with the reflection made by the spokesman for the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Adriana Lastra, to whom I would like to thank, and very much, the group's work and commitment. The first is on March 14, when one year has passed since we decreed the first state of alarm, a very complex, very difficult, extraordinary situation to deal with the pandemic. As I said in my first intervention, a year ago an unknown virus has shaken the pillars of our society, and now we are facing the beginning of the end thanks to the vaccination process, thanks to the national strategy, thanks to co-governance and thanks to citizen engagement. The other date I would like to recall is 23 February 1981. Yesterday, as you know, the 40th anniversary of the attempted coup d'état that had its most symbolic centre of operations in this House was celebrated in this House. That 23 February 1981 was only the last grotesque smith of the dictatorship. He never had a chance to succeed, and justly, against what his inspirers wanted, served to further strengthen the commitment of all and all to freedoms. Democracy, ladies and gentlemen, then defeated fear. Spanish society was definitely shaken by all its fears and pushed the course of three decades that are probably the best in Spanish history. That is why I am concerned that forty years later strategies of destabilisation and intolerance that we thought had been forgotten are repeated in this House. The opposition is not meant to overthrow governments, but to improve them. It should not seek chaos, but cooperation. It pains me to hear in this House, ladies and gentlemen, speeches and accusations that seek not understanding but destruction. I am saddened by the delegitimization that some political forces make of this Government, which is legitimate. After February 23, the House voluntarily decided not to repair the damage caused by the bullets in the ceiling of the room, which will remain as a reminder of infamy and fanaticism. I beg you to look at those bullet holes from time to time from our seats; may our memory, ladies and gentlemen, be long. Spain has lost many people, and many of those people who are no longer there were those who, with their hands, rebuilt Spain, Spain that was devastated by the Civil War and by forty years of dictatorship. After it, thousands and thousands of women and men managed to make the land fertile again; they built roads where only gravel and grass remained; they made industry, transport, our cities prosper; they modernized Spain and transformed it with their hands. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u63	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u64	I would like, on behalf of the Spanish Government, on my own, and certainly on behalf of the Socialist Group, to acknowledge in the figure of Adolfo Suárez the example of Spain's commitment to democracy. [[Address your words to Mr. Suárez Illana]] [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are the children and grandchildren of yes to democracy, of no to dictatorship, of yes to Europe and of those who enlightened our present. Ladies and gentlemen, it is time to look forward with determination, with hope, with optimism, with confidence. It's time to reactivate a Spain that needs everyone's concert to get ahead. It is time to implement a plan designed not for the coming months, but for the coming years. We also have an obligation to address the serious consequences of this pandemic, such as inequality, precariousness and youth unemployment, to which you have referred; such as families that have been left without the livelihood of their businesses; such as intergenerational risk in the labour market; such as mental health disorders, to which you have also referred. We have all that duty, that challenge, but we also have a huge opportunity, the opportunity to regain the essence of our country, to modernise Spain, to transform it from new pillars of sustainability, social cohesion, territorial cohesion, digitalisation and equality. And we have not only the opportunity, but the obligation to bet decisively on our talent, on this extraordinary country, full of talent, and on science. We have a huge debt to science and that debt we have to pay over the next few years, because without science today there would be no future in this pandemic. Consequently, there is only one formula - and that concludes, Madam President -: unity, unity and unity. The Government, ladies and gentlemen, invites you to participate in this unit. Spain deserves no less, Spain needs all of us. Thank you. [[Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist and Confederal parliamentary groups of the United Nations, Puedos-En Comú Puedos-Galicia in common, and the members of the Government, standing]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u65	Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups will then speak. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Casado Blanco has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u66	Thank you, Madam President. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group welcome the entry into the Chamber of Mr Garriga Vaz de Concicao]] Mr. Sanchez...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u67	Wait a moment, Mr. Married, for the proper silence. Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u68	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Sánchez, you have said something that we cannot tolerate, and that is that the People's Parliamentary Group uses the victims of the pandemic. We all have friends who have died, we've all had very close patients. I'm going to read you the INE statistics, because, according to you, we invent the increase in figures that the Ministry of Health recognizes. The INE has recorded between 2019 and 2020 an increase in deaths of 86,172 Spaniards and, in the months since 2021, of 13,500. That is to say, there are an excess of 99,715 deaths in Spain, at a time when, in addition, there have been no traffic accidents and industrial accidents in excess of the years of full activity due to economic closures. So, who's lying? The INE? Does Social Security lie? Is the Charles III Institute lying? Or do you lie? I believe that the best way to claim to the families of the deceased, to those who have gone through the disease, to the health care workers who have played their life, is to recognize at least the number of victims. And also recognize that there are parties that we have reached out to. I reminded you earlier of the health pact, which you incomprehensiblely did not accept; it would have been very good for you. I have reminded you of the legal plan B which asks you for all autonomy, which you are asking for in Europe and which even calls for the organic law by which you are here today talking about the state of alarm. We even told him that they lied on the committee of experts or in the use of masks or in tests, which affected him to CNN, Johns Hopkins or the University of Cambridge. He lied with 8 March, which will now be celebrated again - hopefully not with demonstrations - when you said, and your spokesman and your minister, that there was no risk to manifest. And on the autonomous communities, I said that I not only respect but I appreciate the work of all the autonomous presidents, those of the People's Party and those of your party even, because they have given their faces, which you have not done. And they are acting on the three WHO criteria: bed occupancy, the incidence of contagion and also the immunity they have from other waves. That is what all the autonomous presidents of the People's Party have done and, as you know, depending on the incidence of the first and second waves have acted on the third. He says that we have raised other issues in addition to the state of alarm and that this seemed like the state of the nation debate. For I ask that before summer you hold, after three years, the debate on the state of the nation, and so we will not have to take advantage of the few times you come to the House. [[applause]] He goes on to say: Spain is a full democracy. Well, tell your vice president, he's the one who's talking bad about Spain in all countries and it's his high representative Borrell who's not even able to defend it with Russia. And tell the partners of his government, those who keep him in the Moncloa, to stop messing with the king and the Constitution. It is very good that you say that Welcome to the Constitution, to the party that has four of the seven rapporteurs of the Constitution, with one of which we certainly ate you and me yesterday. Therefore, welcome to the Constitution. But with the Constitution, it must be made very clear that either he is with whom he respects and defends it or he is with whom he attacks it, in this case the partners of his Government. This fact that democracy is full is very good, but then why do you want to modify the crime of sedition? Why has he raised a ministry of truth? Why do you say it's important that there be a change in the crime of freedom of expression? Why then do you ignore what you said on the campaign and criminalize the illegal referendum? If you bring him to this House, we will support him, but it is you who are weakening that statement that it is a full democracy, which is, by the way, what Mr. Churches is questioning. Mr Sánchez, in relation to his partner in government, said that the partners in government did not always have to agree on everything. Man, but that they agree on something... The Marx brothers' cabin that Felipe Gonzalez says is getting short, it's a real cage of crickets. There is no coincidence: neither in masks nor in debt nor in labour reform, nor in pension reform, nor in trans law, nor in housing, wolf and agriculture. And, by the way, what do you think that the Prosecutor's Office has just announced that it will investigate the use of an advisor to the Ministry of Equality for the personal use of the Vice-President of the Government? Because it's your responsibility as president of the government, it can be a misappropriation of public funds. And you should act immediately. Then talk about the Party Law, you have threatened with the Party Law. Listen no, it is a law that is in force and that not only talks about the illegalization of parties that instigated the violence of the kale borroka in the years of lead of ETA, no; it also says that there are sanctions for those spokesmen who can justify these violent attitudes. He says that he is not happy with the result achieved by the People's Party in Catalonia, just as we are not happy that the BNG oversaw him in Galicia or that Podemos oversaw him in Madrid, Barcelona or Zaragoza in the last municipal elections. [[Applauds]] Less wolves, Mr. Sanchez, as I told you the other day. And you throw at Citizens and say they've been useless in Catalonia. Hey, what use is Mr. Illa having? When does he show up for the investiture? I wish, like Rivera and Arrimadas, you could explain that you don't have a band that you want - and you say it every day - to destroy the Spanish nation. They say it, not us. As for the scarecrow from the far right, it no longer hangs, Mr. Sánchez. This is that now, all of a sudden, you get involved with the far right, according to your words, when you have supported the fund of that decree of 140 billion euros to use at your will... [[Applauds]] This from the green and digital backgrounds is because they were fingered and approved by Bildu and VOX, the green parties.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u69	Mr. Married, I'd have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u70	Yes, Madam President, I'm finishing up. Speaking of economy, those EUR 140 billion, as you well know, cannot pay off the 139 000 that has fallen in GDP or cannot pay off the EUR 30 billion that the Spanish sovereign debt ECB has, i.e. twelve times more. If the ECB continued six years - which is what the reconstruction fund lasts - financing EUR 300 billion, it would be twelve times more than you would do your entire economic recovery. The problem is that, as happened with Tsipras - melo said last Friday Mitsotakis, the Greek Prime Minister - inflation may appear by Germany and Mr Söder, Mr Laschet, Mr Merz, Mr Spahn, who is a candidate, have already said that they will not tolerate the continuation of extreme liquidity in countries that are not making reforms. I'm asking you to bring the reform plan here. Why do I have to learn from community sources that you include pension reform or labour reform in your reform plan? What are we left with? Are you going to do like Zapatero? Are you going to come here in two years' time to say: listen, gentlemen of the People's Party, collaborate in reconstruction to cut 10% of public spending, to give a cut of EUR 35 billion, to lower pensions, to lower civil servants' salaries? No, no, now we tell you, now is when you can agree on a recovery plan without having to wreak havoc on the welfare system that you voted for as a deputy when you were Zapatero in the government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u71	Mr. Married, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u72	I'm done, Madam President. We did offer him a shock plan. Yes, and in addition, not only EUR 11 billion, but 50,000. And he says, "How can you do this without raising taxes?" Well, man, like Merkel, Macron, Draghi and Conte, who belongs to his political family. Of course, you cannot raise taxes when businesses are breaking by 139 000, what you do is lower taxes so that businesses survive, don't throw people on the street - there are already 5 million unemployed - and therefore you can collect more, even less, but more companies. Unemployment in Spain has risen from 14% to 17%, Mr Sánchez. Last thing. You speak of Mr Suárez, I will bring you a mythic phrase from President Suárez saying that what Spanish society demanded of him was to change the pipes and he had to give water every day, change the light conduits and he had to give birth every day and, all this, without being allowed politicians to get dirty. This party is willing to get dirty, it is willing to do so in Europe and in this House. We've been asking for shock plans since March 9th last year. We are saying that we can go together for a reconstruction plan, to take real action now, that we are in time, with the help of our community partners,...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u73	Mr. Married, you have to finish now, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u74	... As we have negotiated with Lagarde, Merkel and Ursula von der Leyen. Now, it is your responsibility, Mr Sánchez, that you do not want to be stained, that you deny the reality of those who are accompanying you, that you deny the 5 million unemployed and that you are already in Brussels committing and putting forward the social cuts that your party made ten years ago with you sitting as a Member. Thank you very much. [[Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, on the floor]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u75	Thank you, Mr. Casado. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Abascal Conde has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u76	Two, one tortures us hour and a half in order to get live on the television, the other does not respect the time of intervention and speaks more than 50% of the time allocated, which is the same thing that you have raised the quota of the self-employed, to whom for four times you told them that they were not going to raise taxes. [[Applauds]] Mr Sánchez, I have heard you say in a pompous and self-sufficient way: of course, you cannot take us seriously. By not taking us seriously, you bring the prepared speech from home, with the prepared interventions against VOX and you hear nothing of what we say here. You should not feel so sure when you bring in all the handwritten intervention by awarding VOX things you have not said in this debate or things you have not said today, or things you have not said. [[Applauds]] Don't you take us seriously? Better; better, because we caught him off guard, because more and more Spaniards are taking us seriously all over the national territory, Mr Sánchez. [[Applauds]] He doesn't take us seriously, among other things, he talks about the Masonic Jewish conspiracy and you do so because we talk about the Chinese virus. [[makes scarecrows with arms]] You have spoken of the British variant, the South African variant and the Brazilian variant, why can you say the second surname and we cannot say the first one when those of the second surname have not benefited from the expansion of the virus and those of the first surname yes? [[applause]] Because China grows as the world falls to the ground. You say that the government is opposed to violence. No, Mr Sánchez, you and your entire government have been silent as dead while the country's third political party is stoned one day after another at all the rallies in Catalonia, and you have not said a word. The vice president just said it, you know what for? To say that, man, throwing a stone at someone's head was surely an illicit, but that VOX is comfortable with the situation that has been created. Of course, that's why the spokesman of a government party came out to say that the blood of a deputy was ketchup. You have no shame, you have incited hatred against VOX, Mr. Sánchez. And that's why he comes here to tell Citizens to break with the far right, to apply a health cord to us and to raise him to Social Democracy. Look, I have many differences with Citizens, we are not in any Government, but we are supporting from the opposition Governments in which Citizens are in. Do you know what's going on? That with all the differences I have with Citizens, Citizens is a decent party, and that social democracy for which you call for support is the social democracy that gets the votes of the ETA and the coups in this Parliament. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] Of course, after inciting violence against VOX, after being silent in the face of attacks against VOX, after being the government of the lie, that you come out here to boast a little is a minute sin, but, well, tell me what you presume and I will tell you what you lack; I think the popular refrain is very useful to you. You have done so with vaccines, you have starred in the first major failure with vaccines in the European Union because you did not manage to make the allocation of vaccines to Spain depending on the impact on each country of the epidemic, and Spain was at the head of the most affected countries, only managed to make it according to the population. We have tied our destination in buying vaccines from the European Union, which is proving incapable of buying the necessary vaccines, and you are proving incapable and clumsy when negotiating in the European Union. To the discredit that you have on the streets in Spain is added the international discredit, Mr Sánchez, so do not presume, because you are a mere vaccine carrier. [[applause]] You have not even invented it, which seems to have been invented by the Socialist Party; you are carriers of vaccines, but you are bad dealers for Spain and bad representatives of the Spanish when it comes to obtaining vaccines, because it is necessary that the rate of vaccination is ten times higher than it is to reach the summer with 70% of people vaccinated; so please, Mr Sánchez, do not presume. [[Applauds]] The government of lying. We have seen what has happened with the self-employed, I just said at the beginning of my speech. As long as you lie for land, sea and air, Mr Sánchez, we will continue to call for the end of this arbitrary state of alarm. We will continue to demand that the Constitutional Court respond to the appeals of this House. We will continue to demand the use of all national resources to accelerate the purchase and distribution of the vaccine. We will continue to demand the cessation of this Government for its manifest incapacity and negligence, because it leads the world's worst economic, health and freedom management. We will continue to demand the protection of our borders and the immediate repatriation of the illegals, who, in a state of alarm, Mr Sánchez, and many times infected, have been distributed throughout the national territory. We will continue to demand the immediate deportation of the illegals who participated in street terrorism and electoral crimes during the Catalan campaign and the disarticulation of the gangs, some with a parliamentary presence, which are driving such violence. And we will continue to demand the immediate reduction of the political and trade union spending that you have raised, in the case of trade unions, by 56%; the reduction of all taxes on all sections for all Spaniards; that 80% of European funds be allocated - and we have done so with an amendment that we have already announced - to SMEs and self-employed people, because out of every five jobs destroyed, four have been SMEs and self-employed, Mr Sánchez, and, of course, to return the word to the Spanish people and allow them to express themselves in elections. Leave as soon as possible, please. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u77	Thank you, Mr. Abascal. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Rufián Romero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u78	Well, here's one of the band. I'll speak briefly. I liked it very much, I think the best of the morning was Mr. Garriga's improvised entrance just as Mr. Married was speaking. [[Applauds]] What a coincidence! I really liked Mr. Garriga's gesture of woe! They applaud me, it has been very good; today I do honor. I believe that yesterday something beautiful happened, the whole Chamber, except, of course, the far right, we laid down a savage initiative of the far right, negationist towards the violence of the macho and I liked it very much and I think we should all congratulate ourselves on the gesture of the People's Party. The People's Party got up and ended up clapping. I hope it keeps happening because I think this country deserves a decent right. I encourage them to continue to do so and to continue to demarcate themselves from these people. [[Rumors]] Mr. President, what's happening is not because of Hasel. I'll tell you a story. Joan Tardà, who is a holy man, once went to the courthouse here in Madrid where he was declaring Pablo Hasel a couple of years ago for one of the moves he has and while he was standing there defending himself in the street with the press he was receiving tweets from Pablo Hasel himself insulting me, calling me a traitor and insulting himself. And I remember asking Joan Tardà why we do this and why you're here, after he insults you, and Joan Tardà told me that it's that civil rights are not just for people we like, they're not just for our friends, they're not just for the nice people, they're for everyone. So, I repeat to you again, what is happening on the streets is not just about Pablo Hasel. Linares is not about Linares, there is an entire generation absolutely desperate, pointed out, criminalized and blamed. And either we take a note or we'll lose it directly or, worse still, we'll hand it over to these people. Mr President, elections, a Parliament, the Generalitat de Catalunya is not a league, it is not Roland Garros, it is not a Champions, elections are not won by those who win, they are won by those who can rule and who can rule in Catalanes Esquerra Republicana. That's it. [[Applauds]] And what we ask once again is a broad front with the whole world to continue with the process, with the republican political independence movement dominated by the left in Catalonia. He is right that there has been a bad result of the right in Catalonia, in fact it is the first time in history that the only consequence of a bad result in this case in the People's Party is the resignation of the seat. It's the only consequence there has been. The only measure these people have taken has been to leave their headquarters, but it is also true that the ultra-right has entered the Parliament of Catalonia with batons and I think it is a reflection that we all have to do, which links with the first thing I said in relation to youth. The People's Party claims to Suárez. Mr Suárez, a politician to whom I respect, as it cannot be otherwise, forty years ago legalized the Communist Party, replaced the Generalitat, restored Tarradellas, allowed the return of Alberti and the Passionary and made the Law of divorce. What would the PP be saying now? What would Citizens be saying? I'm not talking about VOX anymore. That's how we are, huh? That's how we are. Imagine. It ended with a memory for one of the best. It is for the lordships of the government, both of the United Podemos and of the PSOE. Remember Anguita - the coalition, I mean - the program, program, program. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u79	Thank you, Mr. Rufián. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Arrimadas García has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u80	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Sánchez, I've had a déjà vu. Exactly two months ago you did the same thing, a written replica. You, who talk so much about dialogue, do not come here to listen to what we say, but to read what they write to you. He's made reference to things that I haven't even said in my speech. I ask you, please, to listen a little more to what we have to say. And like two months ago, he has not answered questions that are basic and important, that concern families, the self-employed, the doctors, the health care workers, the experts. Also, as two months ago, he has dedicated himself to attacking state parties and responsible parties like mine and to dancing water to partners like Bildu, even after saying that Spanish is a torturer state. After saying this, you don't move a eyebrow - it just makes scarecrows when we talk - and above it you thank them and tell them that they are very much in agreement with them. I'm worried because since you came here two months ago, there have been 20,000 deaths. Twenty thousand Spaniards. You were telling me in your speech that we have lost many seats and that it is as if we heard rain. Well, I'll give you back the same sentence. Twenty thousand Spaniards have died since the last time you came here and it's as if you heard rain. In addition, I am convinced that you give more importance to seats than to other numbers and should worry much more about the deceased than about the seats. [[applause]] I am convinced that Mr Sánchez is more embarrassed or annoyed by the fact that he was the candidate of the Socialist Party who drew the worst results from his party's history than by giving him the pandemic management data. You ran out, literally, eight months ago, but today you've done it again. I think he spoke today two and a half hours, two and a half hours - he seemed more, but it's been two and a half hours - and he didn't say a word of Holy Week. What's going to happen in Holy Week? Is it going to be Christmas 2? Are you going to disagree with what's going to happen in health care and in families? The representative of the Basque Nationalist Party said: No, we are going to pretend that there is no Holy Week. Man, no! Let us bear in mind that in Holy Week there will be millions of displacements of Spanish families. Fernando Simon said, "No, if I don't even know when it falls, then who are we in the hands of?" Yeah, yeah, you used to be a scarecrow two months ago, too, and in the end, look what happened. You have not responded to what I asked you and to what I have proposed from the tests or from the greater and more effective controls at the borders or from the doubts about the vaccination process - to what you were also doing astounding two months ago, and look at what has happened - but, above all, to me the most surprising thing has been that in your intervention you have said two absolutely contradictory things, in the same intervention, because to say it with years, months or hours of difference is not so surprising, but in the same intervention? You said that the Spanish Government has made a national plan to deal with the second and third waves and that, therefore, it cannot be said that you have disagreed, but in the same intervention you complain that each autonomous community does a different thing. What are we left with? Have you made a coordinated national plan or are you complaining here that each autonomous community has done a different thing? And you're telling me to call Mrs. Ayuso because it's very bad for everyone to do something different. But who are you, a commentator? You are the President of the Government of Spain. If anyone has to coordinate what the autonomous communities do, it will be the Government of Spain, I say. So have you made a national plan or have you not made a national plan and each autonomous community is doing what it wants? I understand that there will be different criteria depending on the epidemiological situation of each autonomous community. If so, I don't know why you complain, and if not, I don't know why you haven't. On the other hand, you take heart of the management of the pandemic and I have always recognized you that no government would have had all the tools and could have faced this pandemic under optimal conditions. I've recognized him many times. It is probably an unimaginable challenge for a Spanish government of any political colour to face a situation like this. This I have told you many times, but that you come here and do not recognize any error, no improvement, nothing, of the things that can really be avoided for the fourth or fifth wave, which at best arrive, is surprising. But if I tell you the truth, do you know what surprised me most about all your intervention, that is? Not only does he get his chest out of the management of the pandemic, but he comes here to get his chest out of the fact that judges and TV are being distributed and he tells us: you don't believe in democracy. But if you were going with Évole by car, turning around Spain to say that you were offering the Socialist Party that they would no longer have those privileges! And you're coming to ask me to explain why we don't support you taking over the judges in a dark room? But if that's what you said a few years ago, Mr. Sanchez! If that's what you promised! How much is Mr. Sanchez's word worth? How can you get your chest out here that judges are being divided and that's normal! And the same goes for TV. But if you had also supported our proposal to make a public contest for Spanish Broadcasting, you quefulminated as soon as you could, as soon as you arrived at the government! If you are the ones who said that judges should not be allowed to split up in this country! There are only two countries in Europe that do what you two, Mr Casado and Mr Sánchez, are doing, which is to divide one hundred percent of the members of the governing body of judges by parliaments and politicians. It's Poland and Spain. Don't breast-feed, please, at least from that barbarity you're doing! To finish. Mr President, you and your spokesman have spoken of attacks on democracy, and it is true, there are attacks on democracy and Spanish democracy, you have to water it like a plant because of course there are many interests in destroying it, some directly from your government partners. But do you know who attacks Spanish democracy? People sitting in government seats. That would colden the heart of Mr Machado if he lived, listening to the Vice-President of the Government compared Machado to Mr Puigdemont. That would freeze the blood of many Spaniards. Finally, Mr Sánchez, I have offered you four state agreements and, of course, you have not answered me. He'd rather get his chest out of the judges' division with the People's Party. Four state agreements, but I want to remind you of a conversation that you and I had at the beginning of the legislature, which is when I proposed a majority of 221 seats. That majority of 221 seats, which you use to distribute the judges - because for that they do use it - to distribute Spanish Broadcasting, - because for that they do use it - is still present in this House. What would happen in Spain if you, instead of using it in a dark room to put conservative and progressive judges supposedly, used it to make state agreements like the ones I have proposed to you?
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u81	Mrs. Arrimadas, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u82	Where would Spanish society be? Where would the image of Spain be right now? What would our country's economic and health data be if you, instead of fighting in public and privately agreeing on the distribution of the State, sat publicly with that 221-seat majority to strengthen and strengthen the State? That 221 seat majority still exists and if you don't use it, you're going to be losing every day and stealing from the Spanish opportunities and, of course, hope. And to finish...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u83	No, Mrs. Arrimadas. It has to end now.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u84	Yeah, ten seconds. There is nothing to blame for stealing vaccines; what is needed is for you to cease from the posts in which you are keeping them. That is what the Spaniards expect: do not reproach, but stop. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u85	Thank you, Mrs. Arrimadas. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, Mrs Lastra Fernández has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u86	Thank you, President. I'll speak briefly. The truth is that it would be good to remember why this debate is taking place, what is the origin of this debate. When we brought in the last decree of the state of alarm, a number of parliamentary groups wanted there to be some control over that state of alarm that is in effect until May. So, the band singer, who is me, met with the rest of the band group and we decided to register an amendment for the president to come here once every two months. [[laughter and applause]] The truth is that we already suspected that this could happen, Mr President, and I really am sorry. Today we talked about an advisor to Podemos, climate change, a rapper, the ETA - of course - the functioning of the coalition government and the emeritus. I think we missed Cuba, Venezuela and Soros, and we were already in the middle of the 15th. There's talk of anything but the pandemic. And you know why? Because this government is managing well and you know it. [[Applauds]] That's why, except for honorable exceptions, others don't talk about it. Well, we have to talk about the right. We'll be a band, but the band that Mr. President has behind it is a 120-seat orchestra and you, Mrs. Arrimadas, don't even come in to give a concert in the living room of your house, no matter how big. [[A honourable Member: What a grace!]] In any case, in case they were forgotten and in case they have any doubt that this government is doing it well - and I conclude with this - I remind them that the highest official responsible for managing this pandemic came to the elections in Catalonia and won them all; everyone. [[Applauds]] So take note; take note, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u87	Thank you very much, Mrs. Lastra. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] I give the floor to the President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u88	Madam President, I shall speak briefly to thank all the speakers. I would like to say to Mr Abascal that I do take the ultra-right seriously and the reflection that I am doing is precisely to take the ultra-right seriously those who agree with the ultra-right in municipalities and autonomous communities, that is, the People's and Citizens' Party. But I do take the far right very seriously. I know the danger that it means for real democracy and therefore do not trivialise it, ladies and gentlemen; I do not analyse it at all. I would also like to convey to your ladies and gentlemen that after the electoral cycle which closed in Catalonia on 14 February we have ahead - let us hope - a horizon of stability, without electoral advances in some territories. We have the next electoral call, in principle, by the end of 2022 in Andalusia. We therefore have a great deal of parliamentary time ahead of us to work and make good what we invoke in the first of my speeches, because the Spanish citizenship, after more than twelve months of pandemic, is exhausted and asks politics for something it deserves, and it is humanity, generosity and responsibility. Let's make it possible, Your Honor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u89	Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u90	We continue with the questions addressed to the Government, in accordance with the order sent by the Government. Questions to the President of the Government. Question by Mr Pablo Casado Blanco, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u91	Thank you, Madam President. What reforms does the Government intend to push forward?
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u92	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u93	Thank you very much, Madam President. I said this in my investiture speech and also in the various interventions I have made about the pandemic. The pandemic has accelerated many changes that we have already detected before it: the ecological transition, the digital transition. I think we can be aware that it is. We also have a challenge, and it's to square public accounts. We already had structural deficits higher than the European average as a result precisely of some failures, for example, in the area of our tax system and, without a doubt, in the sustainability of accounts linked to social security and, therefore, to our pensions. In any case, ladies and gentlemen, what we do want to move, in relation to the conversation we are having with the European Commission on the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan, are the 170 reforms that we have put forward to the European Commission in six years. These 170 reforms deal with the education system, the ecological transition, the energy system, vocational training, the workplace, etc. Therefore, what I am asking for, Your Honor, is the same thing that I offered you in the previous intervention: unity. I think we have a recovery horizon ahead of us. I also believe that you will have to learn some lesson from what has happened during these twelve months. It has served no purpose that strategy of confrontation, division, polarization; in the end, the only ones you have served are those you have on your right. Therefore, I think that we can reach agreements for the benefit of all, it could even be good for you, Mr Married. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u94	Mr. Married.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u95	Mr Sánchez, we do not want to know for the European Union what reforms they are proposing. But we start from a catastrophic situation that you deny. I repeat that in Spain there are five million people who want to work and cannot do so; that, for example, the majority association of self-employed people has said today that there are 300,000 more self-employed people, in addition to another 300 000 who have already ceased their activity, who are thinking of closing this year; that, according to the indicator we are looking at, there are between 130 000 and 190 000 companies that have already closed; that there is a very high mockery. And you have come to a debate in which you have announced only EUR 11 billion for the entire sector affected by the pandemic. I have to tell you that only the hotel store has asked 12 500 to survive the absence of Holy Week and the non-vaccination in the early summer, which is what you promised. It realizes that there are 30% of the sector associated with tourism, between tourism, mobility, retail trade, culture, leisure and hospitality, which represents an important part of national wealth. What I want to ask you is whether those 11 billion euros are the probe balloons that were launched from Economy that are going to be removed from ICO credit and that the bank has already said that they can provide an additional twist to the provisions that are being demanded. There's no liquidity problem, there's a solvency problem. There is liquidity in the financial environment, in the funds, of course in the European Central Bank. The problem is that you have devoted only 3% of GDP to injecting credits and guarantees into the real economy, when Germany has committed 7% of GDP to direct liquidity in companies. And that is going to cause, in addition to a drama of closure of companies and, therefore, much more unemployment, a genuine unsustainability of public finances, because the Banco de España is already saying that now is when the cuts and adjustments are going to start. With a structural deficit of 5 points, you will have to face the time that is in the Moncloa 60 billion euros of annual adjustment, and that cannot postpone it as did Zapatero, who was cheating on us from 2008 to 2010, until Trichet's letter arrived. I'm telling you right now not to wait until then, because it'll be too late. I am also telling you that we are in time to make the economy more flexible, to make it more competitive, to take advantage of the funds for an Austrian backpack, for a tax rebate, as you ask, for example, France, to make the economy more competitive, but not as a mouthpiece, not for a peronist, customer plan, to distribute to related companies or to the municipalities in which they govern, but to give hope to five million Spaniards who need to see the light at the end of the tunnel, to which you, however much you deny, have left behind. Thank you very much. [[Several ladies and gentlemen: Very well!-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u96	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u97	Thank you, Madam President. It is not clear to me, Mr. Married - which is what always happens to me to you, is always in half - do you want me to cut or want me to make expansive and therefore countercyclical policies? Because I don't quite understand what the feeling of your intervention is. This government has announced a new package of EUR 11 billion precisely to help these sectors. On the contrary, I am aware of the seriousness of the very important sectors of our economy, the tourism sector, the hotel sector, the leisure sector and the culture sector. Of course, ladies and gentlemen, if we have been helping and supporting - for you insufficiently and probably for some of those who are also listening to us - a great deal of resources; 20% of the gross domestic product we have put in the hands of those sectors precisely to sustain it and to enable them to survive this pandemic. Therefore, I tell you that for twelve months you have been saying no to everything; you have been rejecting, blocking, polarizing, and you have already had the result in the Catalan elections. The only thing I ask you to do is try another strategy, try to reach agreements with the government; they may be better off. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEVELOPED DONATOR ESTEBAN BRAVO, OF THE VASCO PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT: WHAT BALANCE DOES THE POLITICAL SITUATION BALANCE? [[EAJ-PNV]] [[File number 180/00420]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u98	Question by Mr Aitor Esteban Bravo, Member of the Basque Parliamentary Group [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u99	Mr President, what is your assessment of the political situation at the moment?
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u100	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u101	Mr Esteban: complex What am I going to tell you that you have not heard in this House?- No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. [[laughs]] I think that we should sometimes land more debates on people's real problems, and that is what the government is about. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u102	Mr. Esteban Bravo.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u103	I am not going to take the opposite of that, but I am going to express a concern to you, because I believe that the image of politics in the media and in the development of debates and parliamentary votes in the Chamber is worrying, above all, with the agitation that has recently taken place within the coalition government, which, with the demonstrations of both sides, contributes to creating a sense of instability, of discrediting politics, and I would say that we could be retreating to feelings of instability prior to the creation of the coalition government. His Government was discriminating in public, but the bad news was that it was doing so on the political agenda. To us, who are trying to stabilize, who are trying to bring a granite of sand, sincerely, all this leaves us a feeling and a taste of discomfort. I understand that there may be discrepancies, but discrepancies always have to be resolved by internal mechanisms that must be within the Government. Nor will I hide from you that this recourse over and over again to decree-laws, in which many issues are mixed up and we can only say yes or no, because it is quite uncomfortable for those who we try to support, especially when on matters that know they are very sensitive to us and which we are talking about, we are not informed before we take the project to the Council of Ministers. What we are asking is that the discrepancies be within the Government and, above all, that there be a sound, non-declaratory policy on economic issues; in the funds, yes, but we are still in generality and we need to go further in the structure of the State, how they are going to face it. And if this is a full democracy - as you say a lot lately - in a full democracy there is no Franco law like the Official Secrets Act. I believe this would clarify, for example, the death of Mikel Zabaltza or 23-F, and citizenship cannot be treated as a minor. So, we eliminate suspicions. We remain the same; we want to contribute to stability and the Government, but we are frightened by a declaratory policy and the internal struggle, and we are concerned about unilateral decisions and the delay in political compliance.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u104	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u105	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, Mr. Esteban. It is true that this is the first coalition government in Spain in its forty years of democracy. It is true that there has been and there are experiences of coalition governments in different areas - no doubt, you too in Euskadi have a coalition government with two political forces experienced in government tasks - and therefore we have much to learn. I have said this before in my speech, I say it now too. Experience is the mother of science. That's what the Quixote said, that's what Cervantes wrote, so there's a lot to learn from that experience. Secondly, I am pleased with the evolution and development of the work of the coalition government, because this coalition government has been put to an unprecedented test in a hundred years of the history of humanity and I believe that we are also facing it thanks to the support of parliamentary forces such as yours in a remarkable way - let us say it - of course with failures, mistakes, things that we need to improve. I do not hide that I would like the decibels to come down a little too in the public debate - no doubt, I do not hide it - but, in any case, my duty, Your Honor - no doubt - is to guarantee the political and institutional stability that this country deserves and needs for the next three years, and I am going to dedicate myself to that. Secondly, logically, my task is to preserve the unity of action of the progressive forces, because I believe that, indeed, if something needs Spain now is a progressive agenda to deal with these transitions - digital, ecological - to that change in the international order that is going to demand from all of us the best of ourselves. Therefore, in this regard, I would like to appeal once again to the unity, generosity and humanity that is being demanded by all citizens of politics, one more effort in this last trance that we have before we put the economic recovery on the line and finally overcome the pandemic. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEVELOPED DON OSKAR MATUTE GARCIA DE JALON, OF THE PARLIAMENTARY GROUP EUSKAL HERRIA BILDU, WHO FORMULATES THE PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT: ARE YOU AWARE THAT PARO, PRECARITY AND INCERTIDUM ARE THE ONLY REALITY OF YOUTH? [[File number 180/00419]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u106	Question by Mr Oskar Matute García de Jalón, MEP Euskal Herria Bildu.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u107	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. President, good afternoon. Are you and your Government aware that unemployment, precariousness and uncertainty are the only reality of youth?
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u108	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u109	Without a doubt, we are aware, Your Honor, and we are also putting in place instruments, policies, resources to begin to alleviate damage such as that you mentioned earlier in your speech. I believe that in the first of my interventions I have made clear the behavior, exemplary behaviour of young people, sometimes distorted by the media unjustly, and I believe that they are being supportive and responsible to their elders, who are precisely the most vulnerable groups to the COVID. From there, the triple answer to which I referred earlier in my speech from the rostrum. Firstly, we have to make a decisive and unequivocal bet on education - if there is no education, there is no future - and, in that case, Your Honor, what I have to say is that these general budgets provide a lot of resources, new resources in the field of scholarship policy and also some sort of modernisation, updating of vocational training. The reflection I have made before on the high levels of youth unemployment has much to do with the drop-out rate that we have to reduce and that I think is a country target and therefore the political forces that we are here. On the other hand, of course, we have two more policies, one is housing policy. In that sense, it is true that it is being debated within the coalition government, but I am telling you that we will agree, that we will reach a consensus and finally have the first law in the state housing sphere, which I believe will be an important milestone also in this legislature. Finally, labour policies, Your Honor. I believe that everything that has to do with strengthening consensus around the social partners to reform our labour market, to institutionalize many areas that have been institutionalised as a result of labour reforms imposed on the social partners in the past is essential. And, within that, I believe that one of the main tasks will be to reform, update the training contract, which will undoubtedly positively affect young people. He knows that in the investiture speech and also in the agreement of the coalition government we have raised elements that have to do with the status of the fellow and also with strengthening everything that has to do with the career of research in the teaching field, but also with science. In short, I believe that we have so many social achievements ahead of us. What I can guarantee is that, of course, the pandemic will not stop them. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u110	Mr. Matute.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u111	Mr President, the assumption of reality is always a necessary starting point, but allow me, as Silvio Rodríguez said, to give you a summary of news to contextualize the question. Two cops beat a man in Linares, people protest and are brutally repressed. A wounded young man with real ammo weapons. Workers in Tubacex, in Llodio, or PCBs, in Barakaldo, protest and are beaten simply because they defend not being kicked out of their jobs. Along with all this, Nazis walk with impunity and between fascist greetings through the centre of Madrid, a rapper is condemned for the exaltation of terrorism and, in the meantime, deputies of this House are loasing Rodriguez Galindo, a torturer, and there is a veto on an initiative to be able to ask about the tortures and subsequent murder of Mikel Zabaltza. At the same time as all this happens, another rapper is convicted of insulting the Crown, despite the fact that European jurisprudence says that laws like these are contrary to people's freedom. Free News, an NGO that works as a consultant for the United Nations, says that in 2019 the Spanish state is the state with the most artists sentenced to prison terms and that Spain is a European leader - in a sense it is a leader - with 40% youth unemployment. There are autonomous communities that still outperform this ratio, unfortunately, because they are above 50%, such as Andalusia, the Canary Islands or Extremadura. In other words, young people have no money, they aspire to be mileurists, as if that were a dream to pursue instead of a starting point, they have no money and cannot be emancipated, they call for policies that limit rental prices and they find answers from this government that say that housing, while it is a right, is also a market asset. You, and in general the entire political class, have made young people believe that through meritocracy, through capacity, one could walk through that social elevator, but what you have really seen is that the best way to progress, the most real, is the kleptocracy. They have been condemned to two crises, while the powerful continue to amass huge fortunes. If we only offer unemployment, precariousness and repression to all these young people, it is not surprising that they hate and hate this system and are encouraged to protest. And if looking at these facts, these incidents, the only thing we analyze is that these protests have one or the other purpose, we will be unable to see the roots, the causes that have led to all this. Because, Mr President, we can look at the cobblestones, but, like fifty-three years ago, the young people will continue to see the beach sand that hides behind them. It is, in short, time for solutions and not time for words.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u112	Thank you, sir. Kill. - OF THE DEVELOPED GAMARRA RUIZ-CLAVIJO DESIGN OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, which FORMULATES THE VICE-President OF THE AND MINISTER OF THE PRESIDENCY, RELATIONS WITH THE COURTS AND DEMOCRATIC MEMORY: DOES THE GOVERNMENT OF COALITION CONSIDER ANTI-SYSTEM? [[File number 180/00425]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u113	Questions to the First Vice-President of the Government and Minister for the Presidency, Relations with the Courts and Democratic Memory. Question by Mrs Concepción Gamarra Ruiz-Clavijo of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u114	Thank you, President. Madam Vice-President, a few months ago you were telling us: there will be only one Government at the direction of a President of the Government. In the past week we have been able to see how Vice President Iglesias from the rostrum attacks the credibility and freedom of the media, how Pablo Echenique encouraged and encouraged as spokesman of Podemos, government party, violence on the streets, and we have also lived as government ministers what they do is to disregard the law, do not condemn vandalism and do not support the State Security Forces and Bodies, which protect our freedoms and our rights, all at the orders of a government president. Madam Vice-President, do you consider the coalition government to be anti-system? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u115	Madam First Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u116	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs. Gamarra, you are a conservative woman and I am a progressive woman. [[Laughter]] Surely you have an idea of what it means to be a very different anti-system from mine. It would go far beyond a quick question and a quick answer for us to agree. But with the objective of the situation, which is what it is about, this Government is part of the system, operates strictly in the system and could not otherwise be in the capacity of a rule of law like the one we have. I imagine you share this with me. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u117	Mrs. Gamarra.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u118	Look, Madam Vice-President, from woman to woman, I do not deny you your legitimacy, what I question is how you are using the legitimacy that the ballot boxes have given you, and that legitimacy you are using to weaken and change the system that we have all given ourselves. Imagine for a moment that you are not Carmen Calvo, imagine that you are a merchant from the center of Madrid or Barcelona, imagine how your last year has been. The last year has been full of invoices that he has had to pay, months in which he has not been able to open, of an ERTE that he has had to raise in order to be able to pay his workers. Besides, all this has been doing it always watching your accounts to see if you could pay for the light and the phone and pending your health. Imagine, moreover, that a year later what comes next is a gang of extreme left-wing savages and looted his shop claiming the freedom of expression of a recidivist criminal. [[Applauds]] That's right. And it turns out that these fascists, who themselves are called anti-fascists, are thrown out by a government party. How would you feel? Would you believe that you have a government next to you that is helping you move forward? Would you believe that you have a government that is thinking about your future? Would you believe that you have government? Mrs Calvo, if we have an anti-system government, it's because the Socialist Party knows and wants it. We're not worth your small-mouthed protests about Podemos' support for the violent. What is very clear is that here you play that there is a good one, that is Sanchez, a bad one, that is Churches, and what you are going to do is break when your interests suit you, and while polarizing and feeding populism. Ladies and gentlemen, your pacts with the devil are turning Spain into hell. [[Several ladies and gentlemen: Very well!-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u119	Madam First Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u120	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs. Gamarra, you are very much given to reducing politics to those stories: what would you feel, what would a person think that something should not happen to him? [[Rumors]] It is the format in which you have been jibarizing Spanish politics for three years, reducing to simplicity what is very complex, because this country has seen nights of street violence of very different kind. Do I remind you of some of the products of a judgment which you participated in in relation to Catalonia, which this government also assumed? But I'm not going in there, because you and I here the best thing we can do is objective, as I told you before. Words resist everything, in politics too, to be anti-system, not to be, but the facts are more fierce, they are harder to resist. I will tell you what it is like for me to be in the system: what Minister Marlaska has done at the head of the State Security Corps, balancing and pondering freedom with security in a democracy for many nights. [[A Member of Parliament: Come on!]] That's a government in the system. And I will tell you what you are not in the system: what the Government of your land has done, passing through the lining of article 116 of the Constitution and the decree of alarm, until it has had to remind you of the Constitutional Court what can not be done from an autonomous government. [[Protests.-Applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u121	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u122	Do you understand what it's like to be in the system and to be in the anti-system? Well, that's it, Mrs. Gamarra. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEVELOPED DON IVAN SPINOSIS OF THE SIMON MONTERS, OF THE VOX PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHICH FORMS THE VICE-President OF THE AND MINISTER OF THE PRESIDENCY, RELATIONS WITH THE COURTS AND DEMOCRATIC MEMORY: DOES YOU THINK THAT THE EXTERNAL QUEER OF ANTI-SYSTEM CAN BE FOLLOWED BY THE GOVERNMENT OF SPAIN TO THE VIEW OF THE DEVELOPMENTS ASPECTED BY IT DURING THE LAST DAYS? [[File number 180/00421]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u123	Question by Mr Iván Espinosa de los Monteros de Simon, Member of the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u124	Thank you, Madam President. We shall now proceed with the question, but, as you made a few allusions to me last week and today the President of the Government has refreshed them, I would also like to refresh some concept for all of you, whether you from the PREU, the COU or even the Logse. I want to refresh you a concept that I'm sure at your good schools you've been taught, that is the active participant, that great stranger. The influencing entity or person is influential; it is neither influential nor influential. The person who is intelligent, like you, is intelligent; he is neither intelligent nor intelligent, he is intelligent. If you want me to use inclusive language, I'll use it. So, socialists and socialists, high offices and high offices, for all of you, the person who presides is president, get on with it, and the person who presides is vice president. [[Applauds]] But it just so happens that I used the vice-president's form three times last week because the RAE also admits it. And since one is the right way and the other is the one admitted, in the future you know which one I'm going to use? The one I want, because you are not going to impose the way you think and you are not going to impose the way you talk. So I'm on my way, Mr. Vice President. Street terrorism, besieged by the radical left that surrounds our streets, has left a wake of incendiary barricades, broken shops, burnt motorcycles, broken urban furniture, wounded police officers and entire neighbourhoods affected by violence. That is the wake that is seen, but perhaps more serious is what is not seen, because that street terrorism represents an attack on the judges - which is the umpteenth attack on judicial independence perpetrated from the left - and is inspired and driven by an essential part of this Government, the same one that did not so much claim to be excited to see protesters assault a police officer. During these days this violence has counted on the tolerance of Pedro Sánchez, who has come here today to condemn it; today, but he has tolerated it for many days, and his vice president has encouraged it, without the president correcting it. I therefore ask you, Madam Vice-President, do you believe that the extreme left can continue to be part of this government? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u125	Madam First Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u126	Thank you, Madam President. For reasons of courtesy and because I will not follow you either, I will answer this question in general to the whole House, as I am a first vice-president of the Government. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, it's been wanted by the ballot boxes. The president said that in this rostrum, and we should remember that. Fortunately, forty years after the last episode of coup attempts by the military in this country, which we remember yesterday, Spanish democracy has managed to get us all here. The Spain that exists is Spain that sits here and, fortunately, although in a very diverse and even incompatible way we are all sitting here peacefully. So governments form as they want the ballot boxes, fortunately, and not as they think of anyone in particular. It is no wonder to me how he has questioned me and in the genre in which Mr Espinosa de los Monteros did it, because yesterday - it seems that the 23-F bring with it - there was a shameful and unworthy circumstance here. Yesterday we had to discuss here whether or not there is gender-based violence against women. If I may, the question is: why would the parents, mothers, brothers, sisters, sons and daughters of the more than a thousand murdered women be feelings yesterday, after what you provoked here yesterday? [[Applauds]] Yes, male, gender-based violence; we are women! That is what happens thanks to what you do, Mr. Member. On behalf of the first Vice-President of the Government. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u127	Señor Espinosa de los Monteros.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u128	Some cocoa has you, Mrs. Calvo. The active participle has no gender, there is no male or female active participle. Your language teacher must be turning away from the pain of listening to you say that. Finally, as you said, the 23-F had its consequences because the law was applied to all those who did not respect the legal order of the moment. I remind you, precisely, that the Party Act foresees very clear consequences for any party that promotes, propitiates or legitimizes violence as a method for achieving political objectives or to do... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u129	Thank you very much, Mr Espinosa de los Monteros. - OF THE DEPUTY THEODOR GARCIA EGEA, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHICH FORMS THE LORD SECOND SECOND PRESIDENT AND MINISTER OF SOCIAL RIGHTS AND AGENDA 2030: DOES THE SECOND Vice-President CONSIDER THAT HIS PRIORITIES CONCERN WITH THE PRIORITIES OF THE SPAIN? [[File number 180/00426]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u130	Questions to the second Vice-President of the Government and Minister for Social Rights and Agenda 2030. Question by Mr Teodoro García Egea, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u131	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Iglesias, I'm going to read you two resumes. The first, the curriculum of a Valencian hotelier, Alejandro Marí, who governs with his wife and children two restaurants in Oliva and a café in Gandía. Since 6 February, he has closed all his business due to restrictions imposed by the Government. Since that date, it has received neither a single aid nor a subsidy from the Government and has 38 employees at ERTE. By the way, employees who have not received a single euro from ERTE. And now that of Pablo Hasel: two years in prison for the exaltation of terrorism, nine months in prison and a fine for exaltation and insulting institutions, six months in prison for assaulting a TV3 journalist, two and a half years for threatening a witness in a trial - the perfect candidate of Podemos -. In the end, a government, Mr. Iglesias, is defined by the kind of people it defends. His government defends a violent rapper, and we defend the self-employed and the hoteliers. They also defend Cristóbal José Gallego, who in six months is not like the hotelier but has packed 69 000 euros in Enagas, the revolving door of Podemos. There are many Alejandro Marí in our country and everyone shares something: they are absolutely abandoned by you and your Government. Does the second vice-president consider that his priorities coincide with those of the Spanish? [[Applause.- Various Members: Very well!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u132	Mr Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u133	Thank you, Madam President. Yeah. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u134	Mr. García Aegean.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u135	There is a profound reason, Mr. Iglesias, from my point of view, for which you defend the violent. One reason I'd say it's even programmatic, because the violent have broken windows, looted establishments and ruined businesses. What we have seen is the practical application of your government program, because you are an anti-system, but a somewhat bourgeois anti-system; an anti-system with office and carpet, an anti-system with the Civil Guard at the door, an anti-system with babysitter paid for by all Spaniards. In the end, the evil is not his words, but the silences of what you have next to him, Mr Sánchez. Attacking journalists? And Sanchez shut up. He throws Violent on the street? And Sanchez shut up. Do you impute your party for corruption? And Sanchez shut up. Is the D.A. investigating you for using public funds to hire a babysitter? And Sanchez is running away. Therefore, Mr. Iglesias, you are not the people's government, you are the government against the people, because you threaten to cut pensions, you deny direct aid, you raise the quota to the self-employed. And neither are they the women's government, because we already know this year's motto for the 8M: the reduction of the pensions of mothers of large families. The babysitters are paid with public money and the rest of the mothers are cut off from their pension. There's a good slogan for the banner. [[Applause.- Various Members: Very well!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u136	Mr Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u137	Thank you, Madam President. Look, Don Teodoro, listening to you, I think it's obvious that the problems you have are not going to solve by changing your seat. Yesterday I heard a kind name, even condescending, towards the leader of his party, towards Mr. Married, they called him head of the opposition. I could be nice to you and call you Secretary General of the opposition party, what happens is that you and I both know that's no longer true. In Spain there has never been a regulated figure who was the head of the opposition, but it is true that there was a time when the practice of bipartisanism made that figure symbolically recognized and you could be a government party and an opposition party. That's over, Your Honor. I understand nostalgia; the nostalgia of some economic powers, of your media arms and your nostalgia for a time that has already ended, Your Honor. But that nostalgia collides with reality; the reality is that I am speaking to you from the government. The reality is that the great decisions of the country will be taken by a coalition government and the bloc of the investiture, and that the great debates of the country will not be with you, but within the coalition government and with the bloc of the investiture. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u138	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u139	And in the meantime you're gonna keep competing to see who makes the most noise from the VOX seat. Good luck, Don Teodoro. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEVELOPED Mrs Macarena OLONA CHOCLAN, OF THE PARLIAMENTARY GROUP VOX, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD SECOND SECOND PRESIDENT AND MINISTER OF SOCIAL RIGHTS AND AGENDA 2030: HAVE YOU BACKED TO FEEL EMOTIVE BEFORE THE IMAGINATION OF A POLICE POTED ON INDIVIDUAL SOIL TO WHICH A HIGHLIGHT COLLABORATOR OF HIS JALEA ON SOCIAL NETWORKS? [[File number 180/00422]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u140	Question by Mrs Macarena Olona Choclán, Member of the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u141	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Churches, I'm going to exhibit a photograph and ask you to look closely at it. [[Show a picture]] Do you know what it is? It's called freedom of expression. But let's go into detail. The photograph shows us a painted - he was able to see it, 'grabbing rat' - on a road. It is a painted that appeared this summer on a road 30 kilometers from the place where your family, which you did not - I repeat, where your family, which you did not - passed a few days. But it was alluded to, we don't know where, whether in the collection or in the rat. And what is more serious, it turned it into a supposed question of national security, as if it were a serious threat - a painted 'gauge rat' 30 kilometers away -, with the complicity of the President of the Government, with the complicity of the President of the Congress of Deputies and even with the complicity of the Socialist spokesman Asturian, who on their social networks described this action as a serious threat, as a serious coercion and a serious risk to their security. Something later denied, by the way, Mr. Churches, by police reports. They missed the good name of Asturias for one purpose only: to launch an information smokescreen to divert attention from the news that had just been known about the imputation of their party for illegal financing from narco dictatorships. A charge that has just been extended yesterday to disloyal administration by diverting funds from the evil so-called Solidarity Fund of your party, that is, the B-box of all life, Mr. Iglesias, that of the People's Party, that of the Socialist Party, that of the caste, and now that of Podemos. Now I am going to exhibit another photograph, Mr. Iglesias, which I ask you also to look closely. [[Show a picture]] Do you know what it is? This is not freedom of expression, these are their hordes of the far left that take eight consecutive nights burning the streets of Spain, especially those of Catalonia. They are your hordes, Mr. Iglesias, and your Government is solely responsible, with the permissiveness of a minister of the interior who is absolutely missing. Mr. Marlaska, where are you? They're stoned our agents in Via Laietana every night! What are you waiting for? That the Catalan borroka kale kills a mosso in order to act? You are an arsonist, Mr. Churches, and a threat to our democracy. And what you're doing is a pulse to your government partner, at the expense of the integrity of our agents and the Spanish businesses. After the serious accusations made today by the Republican Left in this House against the mossos, I can only say on behalf of my parliamentary group: Long live the mossos! Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u142	Mr Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u143	Thank you, Madam President. Your Honor, there is only one political force with parliamentary representation in Spain that openly advocates street violence, which encourages and practices street violence, and it is you, Your Honor. [[Several Members: Lie!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u144	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u145	And since we're teaching photographs, this is you, Your Honor. [[Show a picture]] You are posing ufana in front of the statue of Long Horse vandalized by your puppies and in which you can read: 'Red no. Murder. In this country, Your Honor, there is only one political force with parliamentary representation that makes ostentatious advocacy of terrorism and sonustedes. Your Honor, this is you claiming the memory of a terrorist convicted of terrorism. [[Show a photo of a tweet]] You have also claimed the terrorist governments of the Franco dictatorship. The only thing I can tell you, in front of a political organization with parliamentary representation that claims and practices street violence and advocates terrorism, is: Anti-fascist health cordon. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPUTATE OF THE FEDERAL BAL FRANÇAIS, OF THE CITIZEN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHICH FORMS THE SECOND SECOND AND MINISTER OF SOCIAL RIGHTS AND AGENDA 2030: WHAT BALANCE DOES THE DEVELOPING OF THEIR FUNCTIONS AS THE VICE-President OF THE GOVERNMENT AND MINISTER OF SOCIAL RIGHTS AND AGENDA 2030 AFTER THIS YEAR? [[File number 180/00418]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u146	Question by Mr Edmundo Bal Francés, Member of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u147	Mr. Iglesias, what is your assessment of the performance of your duties as a member of the Government this year?
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u148	Mr Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u149	Thank you, Madam President. A positive balance, Your Honor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u150	Mr. French Ball.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u151	Mr. Churches, I didn't have to explain myself well. I was asking you about the balance sheet you make of your management with regard to the Spaniards. Because for you and for all the plugs in Podemos that you have put into the ministries, for the separatists, for the nationalists and for the independenceists, it is no wonder that I say that the balance sheet is positive, of course, logically it is. Well, it is also positive for this House because as you now have a lot of free time you can watch many television series and your speeches are very well illustrated with cinematic quotes. You have done a harmful management for the Spanish and completely disappointing even for their voters. You came here to end the caste and you became caste; you came here to fight corruption and we met with Neurona, yesterday they reopened the case of the box B of Podemos that manages Mr. Mayoral. You invested twice as much money in the reform of your headquarters and could now have stayed with a low-priced headquarters where you would be very comfortable on Genoa Street. And this morning the prosecution told us that it wants to investigate you for your children's babysitter as an advisor to the Minister of Equality. You always defend decent housing. Do you have to understand how a worthy home that Juan Carlos Monedero pays his mortgage by means of false bills that he pulls out of Podemos, that is, with public money? Do you think the house is worthy that we should pay you the Spanish? You've come here to depoliticize justice and you're now glued together with VOX and the PNV to see if you can get some of the members of the General Council of the Judiciary. You don't like working very much, and that's not so bad either, because when you get to work, you know what happens? If the General Council of the Judiciary twice reprimands them for violating judicial independence, it happens that yesterday you showed rudeness with the head of state, it happens that challenges the good international name of Spain by resembling Puigdemont with the Republican exiles. He says this is not a full democracy. Look, it's so full and so perfect that it can even bear that you're in government. You jealous the vandals against the police, but what are you, government or opposition? Of course, a lot of guilt has it, indeed, Pedro Sánchez, who has you very consented, who allows you everything. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u152	Mr Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u153	Thank you, Madam President. Your Honor, yes, I see series and movies, I read novels and I read essays. I recommend that you do so, that you also reserve time to do so, because that is not bad for any politician. Not to be disappointed, I will refer you to a series recommended to me by the President of the Government, the series is called Baron Noir. That explains a very important political lesson that you have experienced in your own flesh: politics, Your Honor, often consists of occupying spaces. What room do you have left to occupy? You were a very important party in this country, called to be the great bisagra party that would have served to maintain the consensus of a very well-armed political system. However, you were ambitious and made a double or nothing bet, and it turned out nothing. And you know what happens to them now, Your Honor? That you don't have room. I am going to make a wish here in the parliamentary seat: I believe that you will be absorbed by the People's Party, and that in the end, what some of your leaders when they are inside the PP will be left with is basically competing with the far right to make noise, not to rule Spain. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPUTATE DIEGO GAGO BUGARÍN, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHICH FORMS THE VICE-President OF THE FOURTH MINISTER FOR THE ECOLOGICAL TRANSITION AND THE DEMOGRAPHIC CHALLENGE: DOES YOUR POLICIES IN THE CHALLENGE AGAINST CLIMATE CHANGE DEVELOP THE DEVELOPMENT OF THE INDUSTRY OF OUR COUNTRY? [[File number 180/00427]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u154	Questions to the fourth Vice-President of the Government and Minister for the Ecological Transition and the Demographic Challenge. Question by Mr Diego Gago Bugarín, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u155	Thank you very much, President. Madam Vice President, look at Nissan, Siemens Gamesa, Alcoa or Vestas. They sound like something to you, don't they? There are only four of an endless list of companies that have had to shut down and send thousands of workers to the street since you are the Minister for the Ecological Transition. He therefore asked whether he considers that his decisions, those taken to produce this energy transition, generate economic growth and transformation to our country's industry. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u156	Madam Fourth Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u157	Thank you very much, President. Thank you very much, Mr. Gago. Yes, I'm convinced of it. They involve transformation, modernization, employment and industrial and business sustainability. In fact, those examples that you have set probably have little to do with the ecological transition measures of this Government. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u158	Mr. Gago.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u159	Minister, neither you are Felix de Samaniego nor the Spanish economy can bear your particular tale of 'La lachera', which usually brings us up to speed. A week ago in this same control session, we asked you again about your connection, about your involvement in the corruption plot that splashes over a company you led, Isofoton. Of course, he did not respond to us, but today we again give him the third chance to explain at parliamentary level what had to do with that company. Tell us, for example, what happened to the 80 million Mrs. Montero gave her. Explain yourself, you have the opportunity today. Madam Minister, despite what Mr Sánchez said today about green transition policies, I can assure you that economic operators are shaking every time you make a decision and it is normal because in your day it was the Secretary of State for Climate Change and left us with a genuine millionaire tariff deficit, which today we are all paying Spanish, and a fine, from the European Union for failing to meet the CO2 reduction targets that were imposed. It had to be the previous Government, with Mr Cañete, which complied with Kyoto and which subsequently approved the Paris Agreements. That was the inheritance we left him. By the way, we have been able to demonstrate that it is possible to meet the Paris objectives and, at the same time, to grow to 3%. I sincerely say that we are very concerned about the legacy that is leaving us today. We are very concerned because we are aware that if we continue along the path that you mark us, probably the closure of companies will be even much greater. I mentioned four, but last year 70,000 companies were literally shut down. Therefore, I tell you that if you follow that line, on that path of arbitrary decisions and raising taxes, there will be many more companies that will close in Spain, but because of you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u160	Madam Fourth Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u161	Thank you, Madam President. I see that you return to the atavistic positions that climate change does not exist. It is better not to move anything, not to do anything, the most reasonable thing is to avoid reality and wait for things to implode, even if all academic, climate and financial analysts show how important it is to work on time. Working on time is not stretching gum, as you have done with many of the industries that are now engaged in adapting quickly to legislation that was long planned in the European framework in the field of energy and in the field of electro-intensives, in fierce competition in the international arena, by delaying the energy readjustment we were engaged in. I do not know what companies you are talking about because what I am told by the vast majority of companies is that they have great difficulty talking to you about the future in which they understand that they have to compete in the world, in a world that tends to be decarbonised, that has very clear frameworks in the field of innovation, energy, price signals and that they demand us both in mobility and in the energy industry and in the value chain of the whole energy industry that policies, measures accompany investment decisions to generate employment and economic, social and industrial viability, modernizing their entire production plant because of what we are talking about producing and consuming them in another way. This can be done from public policies or it can be obviated and wait for the next one to have to fix the disguise of being looking the other way. So I ask you not to look for Rajoy's cousin again, but to feed on the most relevant sources of information on climate and energy and to consult, among others, Mr Cañete, who, after his visit to Brussels, seems to me to be the person who understands this most in the People's Party. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPUTY DON JOAN BALDOVI RODA, OF THE PLURAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE VICE-President OF THE FOURTH MINISTER FOR THE ECOLOGICAL TRANSITION AND THE DEMOGRAPHICAL CHALLENGE: DOES THE GOVERNMENT OF COALIZATION PROMOTE THE UTILE LIFE OF THE NUCLEAR CENTRAL OF COFRENTS? [[File number 180/00416]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u162	Question by Mr Baldoví Roda, Member of the Plural Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u163	Does the coalition government intend to extend the useful life of the nuclear power plant in Cofrentes?
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u164	Madam Fourth Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u165	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Baldoví, thank you very much for your question. As you know, this is a regular procedure. This week we hope to receive the report of the Nuclear Security Council and the Ministry, the Secretariat of State, will have to analyse it in view not only of the existing legal framework, but of three major priorities included in the regulation, which I remind you of: firstly, the security of the plant; secondly, the security of the dismantling process and, thirdly, the security of electricity supply for all Spaniards. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u166	Mr. Baldoví.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u167	I will give you ten reasons, though there may be more, to shut down this nuclear power plant. The news is from today, and it says: 'The nuclear of Cofrentes goes into losses for the pull of renewables and taxes. The Patronal warns that the prices of the electricity market have not covered the operating costs and requires a tax reduction. A news story has been published on the same day that we have known the benefits of electricity and some have multiplied them by eight, just in the year of the pandemic. Two, if they do not cover - as they say - the operating costs and knowing that the electrics are not sisters of charity, does that mean that the citizens will have to bear those costs? Three, it is an old and obsolete power plant, with a reactor of the same type as that of the closed Garoña or the sinister Fukushima. Four, in Germany they close them with thirty-two or thirty-three years, but this one is already thirty-seven, and if we extend, we will reach forty-seven years, far above the lifetime for which it was designed. Five, extending life to 2030 would mean adding about 300 tons of high-intensity radioactive waste. Who will bear the cost of managing and guarding these waste? Citizens, I suppose. Six, your toxic waste pools are already 100 percent of their capacity. Seven, we know that there is a high seismic risk where the Coffrento nuclear power plant is located. Eight, nuclear power can no longer compete in costs and generation capacity with renewables. Nine, there is an agreement of the Valencian Courts not to extend the life of the plant with the vote in favour of its party, the PSOE, and of Unidad Podemos. And ten, the president spoke today about Spain's future, and I suppose that in Spain's future there are no nuclear power plants that are obsolete, dangerous and without economic viability. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u168	Madam Fourth Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u169	Thank you very much, President. Thank you very much, Mr. Baldoví. I must say that we are aware that there are a very large number of Spaniards who understand, like you and many others, that it is important to leave nuclear energy behind. Our responsibility in the government is to do so with all care, attention and that the costs of managing the waste of safe dismantling are borne by those who have been the owners of the plants in operation during all these years. We don't start from scratch, we start from a story, from a complex backpack. I have to say that, fortunately, for the first time, we are talking about the closure of nuclear power plants and we have a plan, with a timetable that has the security measures organized so that we can activate all these dismantling processes with the people, the specialists and the permits to be able to do so with total security. In 2019, Enresa protected this process and set a timetable that will have to materialize on the occasion of each of the proposals that are being put forward and with all certainty, therefore, with the report of the Nuclear Security Council, which is reflected in something that is part of the Government's obligation, which is to manage scenarios for forecasting the evolution of the electrical system. This is the context in which we are moving, a predictable and secure framework. We have received the report of the Nuclear Security Council, which we obviously count on, and will be submitted for further consultation with local authorities, but also with local actors, and on this basis, it will have to be resolved. It's a long process... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u170	Thank you very much, Vice President. - OF THE DEVELOPED MONTSERRAT BASE COLL, OF THE REPULICIAN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE GOVERNMENT: DOES THE SPANISH GOVERNMENT CREATE THAT THE FREEDOM OF EXPRESSION IN THE SPANISH STATE IS GUARANTEEED? [[File number 180/00415]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u171	Question to the Minister for Justice. Question by Mrs Montserrat Bassa Coll from the Republican Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u172	Thank you, President. As offensive as it may seem to the subjects who yesterday paid tribute to them and pleaded with them, 'the Bourbons are thieves'. [[Rumors]] For this evidence, one rapper has just been convicted and another, also convicted, is in exile. There are dozens of artists and tweeters prosecuted in court, and the leaders of the two most important social organizations in Catalonia, Jordi Cuixart and Jordi Sánchez, have been in prison for more than three years for organizing demonstrations. They know that Amnesty International demands their immediate release. This is what you consider to be full democracy. And then they are surprised that in Catalonia we want independence and to form a republic. The problem is to have legislators who are more monarchical and nationalist than democrats, to have an ideological and fascist police that pursues and even invents evidence against dissent, to have prosecutors and judges ideological and fascist. [[rumors]] [[Protests]] So much so that in Spain only fascists, those who want to shoot half-state and those who insult Jews and Muslims are guaranteed the right to freedom of expression. [[Protests]] That is why I ask the Government of Spain: Do you believe that the right to freedom of expression is guaranteed? [[Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u173	Minister for Justice.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u174	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, in Spain, freedom of expression, as the exercise of any other fundamental right recognized in our constitutional text, is fully guaranteed. It will allow me a little advice: Don't get confused, don't get confused about how to defend it. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u175	Mrs. Bassa.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u176	Minister, if there are people convicted of the crime of insulting the Crown, it is because the Socialist Parliamentary Group has repeatedly voted against the Republican Left's bill to repeal this crime. In other words, in this case it is not the courts, but you who have condemned Pablo Hasel or Valtònyc, among others. It's not just about being Republicans or monarchs, it's about being Democrats. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u177	Minister for Justice.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u178	Mrs. Bassa, let me tell you something. I have missed two words in your speech: rejection and condemnation; rejection of violence and condemnation of the disturbances we are witnessing. I will tell you one thing that I think we should all be very clear about: Violence is not a mechanism for claiming rights. The only thing that violence does is destroy society and coexistence. Freedom of expression is not defended by burning containers. Freedom of expression is not defended by looting shops. Freedom of expression is not defended by tearing down the doors of newspapers and the media. You have described a panorama that is more peculiar - perhaps the time allows - to the Palpatine empire, and, of course, you are the last Jedi, but there you will not find us. If their freedom of expression was so broad, we would have to go through the hemerotheques to realize the wide margin of freedom that we have in our full democracy; yes, in our full democracy. But it is not a matter of debate or dialogue between you or me, no; the index of democracy says so, The Economist. It places us in the number 22 of the highest quality democracies, with 8.12 points. And that 8.12 goes up to 8.53 when it comes to respect for civil rights, above and beyond countries that are relevant: Italy, France, Belgium. Democracies are strengthened precisely by the ability and generosity to revise texts. And the president said a while ago, we said that we are going to review to find the right tone that will allow us a broad exercise of freedom, everything that is known as freedom of expression, and within the limits of these rights, because we do not forget that the European Court of Human Rights, the Constitutional Court or our Second Chamber of the Supreme Court speak of the fact that fundamental rights are very broad but also have limits. I end with Stuart Mill, on the principle of damage: the limit is when we enter the rights of third parties. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEVELOPED GIL LAZARO GIGNACIO, OF THE VOX PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF THE INTERIOR: WHAT OPINION DOES IT DESERVE AS THE MOST RESPONSIBLE FOR CITIZEN SECURITY THAT A PART OF THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICLY SUPPORTS THE CAUSANTS OF THE SERIOUS DISTURBES THAT HAVE HAPPENED IN THE LAST DAYS? [[File number 180/00423]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u179	Question to the Minister for the Interior. Question by Mr Ignacio Gil Lázaro, Member of the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u180	Thank you, Madam President. Minister of the Interior, do not then make me a cowardly general condemnation of violence, because that is not what you asked for. What he asked was his opinion as Minister of the Interior about the fact that a part of the Government has been supporting those responsible for the serious disturbances of the past week. And don't tell me that no one in the government has supported these disturbances, because you would be lying to this House and offending the intelligence of the Spaniards.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u181	Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u182	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you very much, Mr. Gil Lazarus. Without intending to lie to you or to the House, you are well aware that the position of the whole Government of Spain has been expressed in a decisive way by the President of the Government - I say quotes -: 'Violence is inadmissible in a full democracy like the Spanish one' - I close quotes -. I must therefore say that no member of the Government has supported, and less publicly, the disturbances that have taken place in recent days. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u183	Mr. Gil Lazarus.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u184	Minister, the quote you just made, in Merida, three days after the President of the Government was fled and silently, and you simply did not bother that part of the Government that was throwing away the incidents. While extreme left-wing violent gangs burned the streets, looted shops and sought to kill one cop, you and Sánchez in silence; and silently because the underlying reality is that one part of the government was pulsing the other using those hordes and the figure of a recidivist criminal and, on top of it, blaming the police for that violence, accusing it of provocative. The top of the hills, Minister. And in the meantime, you're out of the game. Look, Podemos has been explicitly, through his parliamentary spokesman and other figures in this House, supporting and flaunting that violence, and all the Rufians on shift throwing up with Podemos that anti-system bazophy. The summit, Minister: the National Police Corps and in Catalonia the Mossos d'Esquadra lynched by their political leaders. Therefore, on behalf of VOX, today I express my tribute and appreciation to those police forces. And to you, to this government, I tell you that, no matter how much you insult us, threaten us and stone us, you will not succeed in enchanting VOX, because we are the hope of millions of Spaniards increasingly fed up with the misery of this government, turned, by their cowardice and sectarianism, into a real shame and threat to Spain; Spaniards who have the right to a future worthy of freedom and who know that they are... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u185	Thank you very much, Mr. Gil Lazarus. Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u186	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you, Mr. Gil Lazarus. If last Friday you had been on the Committee on the Interior, of which you are the spokesman, you would have known where the Minister of the Interior was and the explicit condemnation of the violence he had already done before. [[Applauds]] However, I congratulate you, because you are a genuine innovator; with all the years you have been in this House, you are an innovator as a parliamentarian, because I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that, if we review the plenary, this is the first time, the first meeting in which the Government is asked about the statements of Members, and not about the management of the Government. The position of the entire Government, as I have told you, was made clear by the President, and I, as Minister of the Interior, can tell you that, as always, I support, and strongly supported, the work of the Security Forces and Bodies: Police, Civil Guard, Mossos, Ertzaintza and also local police, which is often forgotten. Of course, I remember the National Police and all the functions it carries out, primarily for the benefit of the most vulnerable, and I do not think that any kind of violence is justified. I tell you that that zeal you have today towards the Security Forces and Corps when you were a member of Parliament in 2004 did not have you as a member of the People's Party, when you put four hundred questions to the police themselves for the investigations into the 11-M attacks. [[Applauds]] But, look, I'm going to be with you, without being a precedent. No violence, of course, can be assumed by a Democrat. Something has been said today by the President of the Government, but when you hear of certain neighbourhoods as multicultural waste pickers, I hope and wish you to condemn them. When you hear that they say there is no gender-based violence, I hope you listen and condemn the violence. When you hear about the Chinese plague, I hope you hear and condemn those expressions too. [[Greetings.-Mr. Gil Lázaro utters words that are not perceived]] - the Joint Parliamentary Group, which forms the Government: what measures is the Government implementing to urgently reverse the derelictness of the Asturian industry reflected in the development of its production, the high energy costs and the critical situation of a sector affected by closures, relocations and the destruction of thousands of working posts? [[File number 180/00417]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u187	Question to the Minister for Industry, Commerce and Tourism. Question by Mr Isidro Manuel Martínez Oblanca, Member of the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u188	Thank you very much, Madam President. Madam Minister, you are on your way to three years in charge of Industry and also in this area the picture has gone from bad to worse. It is certified by the National Institute of Statistics, which in recent days has published demolishing data regarding the year 2020, such as that industrial production fell by -9,1 % in Spain and Asturias by 13,9 % and that the Asturian manufacturing sector recorded the largest annual turnover collapse, with -19,4 %, almost double the national average. Thinking of employment, he asked about his measures to urgently reverse this worrisome drift. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u189	Minister for Industry, Commerce and Tourism.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u190	Thank you, President. Your Honor, as you know, we are immersed in an unprecedented health crisis, which has generated an economic and social crisis, with an impact on all economic activities and also on industry. Thanks to the extraordinary safety net we have deployed, we are currently protecting more than 80 000 workers and self-employed in Asturias and more than 12 000 Asturian companies receive liquidity with the approval of the State. But, also, Your Honor, we are working on reviving our economy, and industry has proven to be more resilient to the pandemic than other sectors. You make me responsible for the critical situation in which the Asturian industry is located, and you, Your Honor, are lacking in reason. We have inherited structural problems that some Asturian companies have, such as Duro Felguera Arcelor, among others, and since we arrived at the Government we have been working on solutions, and we are doing so together with the Asturian Government and its social partners. We have mobilised more than EUR 73 million in reindustrialisation aid and more than EUR 60 million in compensation for CO2, we have approved the Statute of the E-Intensive Consumer, the Spanish Guarantee Fund for E-Intensive Entities and we have created a Productive Industrial Investment Support Fund with EUR 600 million. In short, Your Honor, we are working to ensure the future of industry in Asturias. And if you are so concerned about the industry in your region, begin, Your Honor, by highlighting the opportunities that Asturias has to attract investment. Me and the government do it every day. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u191	Mr. Martínez Oblanca.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u192	The industrial situation is of such extraordinary gravity that in Asturias we are all aware that our immediate future is being played out in Madrid. That is why I remind you, Mrs Maroto, that in politics when you put on your shirt it is to sweat it, and you, as I have already pointed out on other occasions, do not exercise a crucial responsibility, on which thousands of jobs depend. You have launched the Alcoa T-shirt in an electoral campaign, but today hundreds of workers from Alu Ibérica's plants in Avilés and Coruña suffer from a distressing situation, resulting from the flagrant breach of the sales agreement that their ministry favors with one of those investor funds that earn sluggish profits with job insecurity, get lost and the government silent. Nor did you soak up the T-shirt so that the basic industry would have an electro-intensive consumer status that would reduce high production costs and be able to compete in similar terms in international markets, securing jobs. Her partner, the de-amortizing minister, from the thermal closure and the wolf, won her the game, but the ones we lost, and as a result, we were the Asturians. With this terrible data and so dramatic work uncertainty, his ministry cannot continue to be absent, missing and alien to the industrial disaster that is looming over Asturias. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u193	Minister of Industry.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u194	Thank you, President. Mr Martínez Oblanca, as you have said, companies are asking us for solutions, and this is what the Government is focusing on. It is certainly time to work for the future of industry. In the year 2021 we will mobilize more than EUR 3 billion to support industry, an investment that will allow us to develop the industrial policy strategy 2030, a strategy with a vision for the future to boost the modernization and productivity of the Spanish industrial ecosystem, to adapt digitalisation to the value chain and to promote key strategic sectors in the field of ecological and digital transition. We certainly have the opportunity, Your Honor, to strengthen industry in Asturias and Spain, also to bet on industrial sovereignty in Europe, and, Mr Oblanca, you have to decide whether to stay anchored in the past or work with this government for the future of Asturias and its industry. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] - of Mr Javier Merino Martinez, of the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress, which expresses to the Minister for Culture and Deportation: Does the Government agree that the selection of a civil servant's seat may be an international representation of the civil servant in official competitions? [[File number 180/00428]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u195	Question to the Minister for Culture and Sport. Question by Mr Javier Merino Martínez, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u196	Thank you, President. Your Honor, almost a month ago, on 26 January, the lehendakari Iñigo Urkullu left the Palace of Moncloa with Mr Sánchez's commitment so that the Basque football team could participate in international competitions in the future. I see, because this could have been Mr Sánchez's typical lie about pacts, but in this case this commitment is literally reflected in point 11 of the investiture agreement between the Socialist Party and the Basque Nationalist Party, and Pedro Sánchez knows it. Can you imagine, Minister, what image we have given in the European Union? Can you imagine what everyone would have thought when they read this news? An image that contrasts with what we hear today is true, for example, about the 1992 Barcelona Olympics. Spain was shown to be a united country, Spain was shown to be a modern country that showed that together we are better. But, look, the problem is that you have entered an unrecognizable diversion, and all you have to do is parade Otegi as a flag in the upcoming Olympic Games. That is why I ask you today: Minister, do you confirm the agreement with the Basque Government to give international legitimacy to Basque selections? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u197	Minister for Culture and Sport.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u198	Thank you, President. No, Your Honor, the Government has not agreed anything on the question you are asking me. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u199	Mr. Merino.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u200	Minister, it gives me a joy, but I will answer you, improvising my answer, about what you say ten times in writing to this parliamentary group and to Members, and it is - I am sure - 'As has already been indicated in replies to previous initiatives, it should be noted that the Government, within the framework of the agreement signed with the PNV for the investiture, will fulfil the commitment to open channels to promote Euskadi's international representation in the sport and cultural field'. So he's lying today or they were lying before. That's what you have to say. [[Applauds]] And what I hope is that they will not also break the unity of Spain through sport, Minister, that cannot be done. I wish you'd dedicated yourself to the important. The important thing is to save the 30,000 sports jobs that are going to be lost this year - yes, minister - or to have closed the stadiums before March 10th. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u201	Minister for Culture and Sport.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u202	Thank you, President. Your Honor, the meeting held by President Sánchez and Lehendakari Urkullu on 25 January focused on the evolution of the pandemic. The need to further promote the full development of the Gernika Statute was also on the table, with a commitment to advance the schedule of transfers of outstanding transfers. Finally, the President transferred to the Lehendakari the will to speed up bilateral meetings in order to further advance within the respective competences of the Government of Euskadi and the Government of Spain. Therefore, there was no agreement regarding the participation of Basque selections in official competitions. Your Honor, allow me to state to you the position of the Government, which responds to two good reasons, two fundamental arguments, one legal and one rational or emotional. The legal has to do, as it cannot be otherwise, with respect for the existing domestic and international rules, including the interpretation of the same by the courts of justice. In this regard, two judgements of the Constitutional Court have established doctrine in this regard, judgement 110/2012 of 23 May and judgement 80/2012 of 18 April. According to this jurisprudence, the international representation of Spanish federated sport is a matter of general interest directly related to the external image of Spain. The unitary representation of Spanish federated sport in international competitions, with its consequent symbolic effects, therefore requires a common and coordinated action, which is the competence of the State, without prejudice to the fact that this image and the reality it projects must reflect the plurality and diversity of our rich country. I would remind you, Your Honor, that the rules in force in both UEFA and FIFA aim to recognise a single federation for each state, this is the rule. The second reason is emotional. We are champions of the world and Europe three times, and we have done so with great Basque players, such as Julen Guerrero or Xabi Alonso, for not going further and remembering Iribar, Zubi or Arconada. 'It's okay, we've got the Arconada,' we sang. Do you remember? This is the path on which the Government of Spain is committed, it is the path of legality, of good sense, of reason, always with the hand extended in favor of dialogue and encounter and without losing sight that together we are stronger, that together we are... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u203	Thank you, Minister. - OF THE DEVELOPED NAVARRO LÓPEZ PENDOR, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF SCIENCE AND INNOVATION: WHAT IS YOUR CONTRIBUTION TO THE DEVELOPMENT OF SCIENCE IN SPAIN FROM THEIR RESPONSIBILITIES AS MINISTER? [[File number 180/00429]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u204	Question to the Minister for Science and Innovation. Question by Mr Pedro Navarro López, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u205	Thank you very much, Madam President. Welcome, Mr. Duke, to the Congress of Deputies. You were a professional of recognized prestige who wanted to be a minister, wanted the position as a trampoline - you don't like it to say it, but it's obvious - to preside over the European Space Agency. What I didn't count on was that it could go wrong. He ran out of agency and prestige, and while you only cared about your personal space career, life continued in the ministry. A Spanish satellite of over 200 million euros of investment fell and you neither asked for explanations nor wanted to come here to give them. What is a fact is that it only comes when it is forced by the People's Group. It increased by 500 million euros the Spanish contribution to that agency that you wanted to chair, while the shipwrecking sector in Spain in the midst of the crisis and we saw how Airbus in Toledo, Cadiz or Madrid, Aernnova in the Basque Country recently MASA in La Rioja put the employment of 4000 workers at risk. This morning the president of the government was talking about five vaccines in Spain, but what you haven't told him is that all these research groups have been almost a year without funding, which depends on the agency, the Ministry of Science and Innovation, because in the middle of the pandemic you decided to change the timetable of aid and leave them without public funding; to those who, according to the Spanish Cancer Research Association, were left without money to investigate against COVID or cancer in the middle of the pandemic because you were at something else. In many cases they were also young pre - and postdoctoral researchers,hospital investigators who still today do not know what will happen with their extended contracts because you, until today, when asked by the People's Group, have not decided to remove the order that those who are investigating against COVID allow them to know if they are going to have a contract from next month. Minister, apart from wanting to leave, what have you done all year? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u206	Minister for Science and Innovation.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u207	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, Mr. Navarro. I'm sorry you've been convinced of so many falsehoods. There's no time to beat it all up. Taking the question as it is, the contribution to the development of science has, of course, many aspects. We have adopted the largest budget in history entirely for science and innovation, with the commitment, of course, that it has long-term continuity, as well as two decree-laws to improve the administration of scientific entities and the timetable to which you refer, which has had a completely contrary effect to what they have explained to you. 97% of researchers have embraced this new calendar, which sought to alleviate the misadjustment that has taken place since the year lost in 2012. In short, we have put in place many actions and measures. And if you don't mind, I'll give myself a little time in case you have any specific questions. [[Laughs.-Applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u208	Mr. Navarro.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u209	Yes, I have a specific question. When are you going to land in Spain, Mr. Duke? [[Laughter]] You always accuse us of lying, you just accuse us of lying, but the reality is that you are neither a friend nor a face nor transparency. He began as a minister by lying, hiding a society to pay less taxes and refused to appear in these courts. You never come because it scares you to give your face or because, obviously, you prefer to do something else, try to go to Paris to preside over the European Space Agency, by the way, as I told you at the time, hiding everything in your agenda. There's talent and there's capacity, there's only one thing missing: a minister to rule. [[Several Members: Very well!-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u210	Minister for Science and Innovation.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u211	Going to the point, about control of the government, I consider it a priority objective of my management to reach a comprehensive agreement to achieve a pact for science and innovation. We already know that we have secured the support of more than sixty institutions, which I believe represent very significantly civil society, and we are in contact with the political parties to make this agreement a reality and everyone to prove it. In this regard, I have to thank you and your parliamentary group for supporting the creation of the subcommittee to work on this pact and to consider our proposal to amend the Science Act. This spirit of cooperation will help to build a better future for our country, our young people and the next generations. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u212	We are now dealing with the appeals addressed to the Government. Urgent inquiry by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Martínez Oblanca, on the draft order of the Ministry for the Ecological Transition and the Demographic Challenge to include all populations of Iberian wolf in the list of species under special protection following the recent decision of the State Commission for Natural Heritage and Biodiversity, with the rejection of the affected autonomous communities, as well as its serious repercussions for a very important part of the livestock sector of the territories north of the Duero. For your defence, Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u213	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good afternoon, Madam Fourth Vice President and Minister for the Ecological Transition and the Demographic Challenge. Dr. Félix Rodríguez de la Fuente was an extraordinary Spaniard, who instilled in millions love and respect for nature. [[Rumors]] Very soon, forty-one years after his death, he crashed in Alaska while working on the air shot of one of his magnificent television documentaries. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u214	Mr. Martínez Oblanca, excuse me a second. I beg your silence, please. If you want to leave the Chamber, do it quickly and quietly. You may continue, Mr. Martinez.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u215	In preparing this inquiry, it was inevitable to remember that legendary friend of the animals who transmitted his passion for the Iberian fauna to us, discovering so many wonders, and I found several publications in which it is believed that his divulging work ended in Spain the ancestral antagonism between man and wolf. In the words of biologist Carlos Sanz, one of his collaborators, Felix changed the chip to the whole society, he was the first one who showed that the wolf is not as fierce as they paint it and, above all, that it is an animal that also has the right to exist in its natural environment. Felix saved the wolf. Had it not been for him, he would have died many years ago in our country. Madam Vice-President, the controversial decision taken on 4 February by the State Commission for Natural Heritage and Biodiversity, a participatory body in the field of biodiversity, in which the General Administration of the State is represented, through the ministry you hold, and the autonomous communities, has broken the goal of reaching broad agreements so that the rivalry between human beings and the wolf is mitigated and coexistence facilitated by consensual measures that provide prevention and protection for the activity and support of the hardworking farmers, ensure the conservation of an emblematic species and even, if considered, its recovery in those territories where it lived in past times. For the first time, to the brave, the Miteco has broken the climate in which, since always, when it comes to biodiversity, the representatives on the state commission achieved unanimous agreements. Its decision to homogenize the status of protection of the wolf at national level and which ceases to be considered a kinegetic species has been met with the sharp rejection of the autonomous communities in which 95 % of the herds existing in Spain, which represent the order of 2500 specimens; after Romania, the most important quantity in Europe. From a stroke you have managed to get Galicia, Cantabria, Castile and León and Asturias to strongly disagree with a decision that your ministry intends to make by means of an order for which a period of public consultation and submission of allegations has been opened, which ends last morning. To the disconformity of the respective governments of these four autonomous communities, by the way presided over by different signs - popular in the case of Galician and Castilanoleonese; regionalist, in the cantabrian; and socialist, in the Asturian -, the respective autonomous parliaments, many municipalities and, also, in bloc, the trade unions and associations representative of the agroganaderos are being added. Even one of his own blue bank colleagues, the Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, came to publicly express his disagreement with the new protection measures. I am on the side of the farmers, said Mr Planas, that days later, after a period of reflection - preceded, I suppose, by telephone call - he has matified his position and it seems that the Minister is now more in favour of offering economic compensation via the common agricultural policy. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me, from this rostrum, on behalf of the Forum and echoing the farmers who have been displeased and opposed to the new protectionist measure of the wolf, to remind the Government that this is not a matter of compensation or of Euro lures. We are faced with a painfully full sector of complications, stickers and expert impediments to collect the damage late, bad and never, but, above all, with a sector that has been demanding repeated and insistently control actions so that its modus vivendi, its cattle, are not the object of the ferocious and frequent attack of the wolf; a carnivorous mammal that eats with cattle and kills indiscriminately, not only to feed itself. Hence, the announcement of their inclusion in the list of protected species has been a cause of widespread rejection, posing a serious threat to the rural environment affected by this measure promoted by his ministry. It is not - and is important - a question of compensation or green bills. Come closer, Mrs Ribera, to the emotional impact that the macabre finding of a flock of slaughtered sheep and goats, or of gutted cows and calves, or of dead and wounded horses and fowls, or of slaughtered farm animals is for a farmer and her people. Is this what we want for those who live in our villages, take care of our mountains, provide us with quality food and maintain the environment that surrounds us and that we can all enjoy, in case, for example, of Picos de Europa, the only national park with inhabited nuclei? With hard work, no rest, no vacation, but with the wolf lurking, are you surprised that there is depopulation? Is giving up the primary sector the demographic strategy that will prevent rural exodus? The objective of correcting the empty step of our villages and villages is largely to achieve and maintain the best conditions as a formula for generating economic activity and employment. In this sense, it is relevant to cite the manifesto in which many entities, winners, pastors and producers from all over Spain remind us that extensive livestock farming represents a way of maintaining living peoples, inhabited mountains, communals in use and a rich heritage of cultures, management, names and festivals, food sovereignty, and that the fight against climate change also involves maintaining a living and pastured countryside. Also, without doubt that the claims process will provide you with a better perception of what those concerned think, I suppose you know that even legal, administrative and, of course, political measures are already being proposed. In my part, I will register a motion following this appeal for the House to rule on this, although I acknowledge that the precedents do not wish me much success, in accordance with the initiative advocated by Mr López de Uralde concerning the conservation of the wolf and his declaration as a protected species, which was debated in May 2017 in the Committee on Agriculture, Food and the Environment and which, together with Podemos, group author of the non-law proposal, also received socialist support, where there are problems with the wolf say one thing but here they vote the opposite. Mrs Ribera, I am proud to live, as the right slogan says, in a natural paradise, in which we aspire to responsible ecology and respect for the animal world, which does not coincide with the insolidary ecology that is misunderstood and forgets that the great species to protect is the human being, who needs to work to live and to be able to eat. We are faced with a government that stands on the side of the wolf's proliferation, deafening the cry of farmers, people and affected territories north of the river Duero; a cry that does not come from now, that comes from very old and that in democracy has been reflected many times in mass demonstrations, in protest concentrations and in complaints about the disasters that the wolf causes to the livestock cabin. Please do not display the checkbook as a camel; there is never sufficient compensation to attend to the damage, tearing, disgust and despair of a farmer after a slaughter caused by a wolf. But it is also that the measure that his ministry promotes to homogenize the status of wolf protection at the national level will not only have harmful effects on the livestock sector, it will also affect coexistence with the wolf but to the detriment of the species itself, with furtivism, cruel traps and traps, and poison. These crimes have been committed before, and I am afraid that history is doomed to repeat itself. With the political imposition of incorporating the wolf into the Vespre, the Government has generated an effect contrary to the protection of nature to which a civilized society, modern and respectful of the environment and the life of animals aspires. Travel, Mrs Rivera, to Asturias for example. Kick some water boots or put on some mothers and listen to the farmers. Ladies and gentlemen, it should be stressed that today there is no danger of extinction of the species in the territories of the north-east where it lives. It can even be said that there has been a rebound in those places where species management plans are implemented and controls of the species. It should be noted, with regard to the census carried out in 2007, collected in the Atlas and Red Book of Terrestrial Mammals of Spain, that the inventory at that time was 250 herds; in 2014 nearly 300 herds were counted, although it should be said that the study methodologies were different, but the figure, as biologists and highly accredited specialists point out, is increasing. The Iberian wolf is situated at the highest of the food pyramid, is carnivorous but also takes advantage of carrots, lacks predators, its annual layers are four or six puppies. Information on damage increases the number of cattle killed by their attacks annually to more than 10,000. We do not have an updated census of the Iberian wolf population, although there are reliable studies that determine that a high percentage of the herds have been reproduced and extended. Therefore, one cannot address an extinction problem and in the draft strategy for the conservation and management of the wolf the claim is to promote the increase of herds to 350 by 2030, that is, 18% more and that the species also expands to other territories as an integral part of the ecosystem. It would be very illustrative to know which places they want to expand the wolf and which villages of the south of the river Duero and of the entire peninsula wish to have so uncomfortable neighbor; emblematic, beautiful and beautiful, but wild and uncomfortable. Finally, Madam Vice-President, I ask you to make an effort to identify with those affected by your decision to change the existing status of wolf protection and to share the feelings of despair, disgust and disappointment of farmers in north-west Spain, north of Duero, who today, rather than fear the wolf, fear a government that does not only defend their interests but attacks them. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u216	Thank you so much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] I now have the floor on behalf of the Government, the fourth Vice-President of the Government and Minister for the Ecological Transition and the Demographic Challenge.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u217	Thank you, President, and thank you, Your Honor, for giving me the opportunity to bring a crucial issue to Congress as well. Let me begin by saying that, on the basis of your intervention, I recognize elements on which we are very much in agreement, in which we agree. Because of the weight and social, environmental, economic and anthropological importance of extensive livestock farming in this country it deserves much more support and recognition than it currently has. The fact that all of our actions must be people-centred, understanding the environmental limits, the balance of the ecosystem, but what matters to us above all is people. This is what makes us talk about responsible ecology, which I have also heard you mention. The fact that in Asturias, in fact, we have a very interesting example, is the first autonomous community north of the Duero that since 1991 declared the species as non-kinegetic, therefore, with a regime from which we sure have a lot to learn also about its management plan. Finally, we know that this is a matter in which the most important message is to highlight, above all, that we are all with the farmers, with the people who today see with concern something that has been distorted when it comes to being communicated. Our affection and our recognition for those people who live in extensive livestock farming, because, thanks to them, we have forests, mountains, fields, pastures and so many elements that have been fundamental for a few particularly hard months and are always, all year round, both from the point of view of the production of environmental services and, above all, of the production of food, for people and fixing of population. So I want to highlight, above all, that, without any reservation, the whole team of the Ministry of Ecological Transition and the Demographic Challenge we feel enormously close, close and open, is their home, we feel concerned and committed to improving the lives of these people, to recognizing their effort and their presence in a fundamental element of which we all benefit, which is the environmental balance with a day-to-day work that is covered with that capacity to promote rain, snow or sunshine, extensive livestock farming. That is why I think this is a good opportunity to explain what is outside of the noise and the uplifting words that these days have abounded so much in the newspapers. It is not an isolated and incongruous decision, a whim, something Taliban, no, none of that; it is a decision consistent with the need to address unresolved problems of coexistence between extensive livestock and wolf. This is a decision endorsed by the scientific criterion that now requires work to achieve the best social consensus and ensure the best possible management. This is a decision whose adoption is under way, governed by an extensive, complex, guaranteeing procedure, as set out in Law 42/2007, and which we are carrying out rigorously, applying each of the steps provided for in the law and in the rule that develops them with different unfinished procedures. We are currently at the stage of prior public information; on the basis of the allegations we receive, we draw up a ministerial order, which will be resubmitted to public information and forwarded, as in each of the cases preceding similar situations, to the Council of State for its report. The incorporation of the wolf into the List of Species under Special Protection should be understood as the treatment that we must give to a key wild species in the functioning of the Spanish ecosystems, as Félix Rodríguez de la Fuente taught us. At that time, the only way to integrate a wolf protection system was to include it under the Hunting Act, today this has changed a lot. The wolf has historically been present in our country in much of the peninsular territory, which has led to an adaptation to the coexistence with the cattle, which has not always been free of problems, some you have cited. This scenario changed over the last century, with a regression in the extremely important, extraordinarily worrying wolf populations; it was relegated to the north-west quadrant and a small number of missing specimens in Sierra Morena; since the last census of the wolf in 2014 there has been no sign that there may be any pre-existing specimens in this area. It is estimated that the species has about 300 herds, around 2000 specimens distributed mainly in this northwest quadrant, and there is no significant expansion beyond small incursions into adjacent territories since this date. It occupies, therefore, a small part of the available natural habitat in our country; and it has been extinct, as I said before, during the last decade, in Andalusia. For these reasons, among other things, the report on the state of the nature of Europe, prepared by the European Environment Agency for the period 2013-2018 - the last for these purposes - considers that the wolf in Spain is in an unfavourable state of conservation, that we need better management that favors the recovery of the species, always of course, I insist on this, within the framework of a coexistence, first and foremost fair. It is not a question of cheating, it is not a question of saying that with a few eurillos the matter is solved; for nothing, no one has ever made such a frivolous statement as that. We need a just coexistence with farmers, with those who make their way of life something fundamental to the social and environmental well-being of this country. This is what happens in the vast majority of the European Union. The wolf is considered to be a strictly protected species by being included in Annex IV to the Habitats Directive throughout Europe, with the only exceptions of some small territories in Finland, the Baltic Republics and Greece, or in Spain, north of the Duero. In the rest, it has a protection regime equivalent to that of including the wolf in this special list. Portugal and France have a strict protection regime, as is the case - as I say - in most European countries even though they have a very abundant wolf population: France, Romania, Italy, Germany and Sweden. Meanwhile, in Spain the populations of the north of the Duero can be subject to kinegetic exploitation, except - I insist on it because I think it is very important to highlight - in the case of Asturias. To the south of the Duero the populations are strictly protected, included in the List of Wild Species under Special Protection Regime, which gives rise to important differences in the treatment and the regime of accompaniment and solidarity with farmers. Does it make sense to maintain a fragmented system that does not work? The most important wolf attacks continue to occur in areas where there is no special protection regime and where, however, we are faced with significant attacks that generate that tension, that alert, that concern and little measure of preventive solidarity, which is the important, or post facto corrective, measure. We realize that things as they are do not work, and I think this is an important element to touch reality, to address with conviction the need to solve the problem. They are not good for anyone, they are not good for the wolf's ecosystems, on the one hand, neither for livestock and farm owners, who see with concern what happens, nor of course for the competent administrations when it comes to intervening and guarding both the protection of biodiversity and livestock and coexistence. We need to have an acceptable, understandable, understandable and enormously supportive mode of management, much more than we need today, as I say, to be fragmented and unbridled and unguaranteed for both people and administrations, let alone the wolf. In this context and without it being an initiative of the Administration, in September 2019, making use of a legitimation perfectly in accordance with the legislation and not appealed by anyone, a formal request was received for the inclusion of the entire Spanish population of the Iberian wolf in the vulnerable category of the Spanish catalogue of endangered species. The ministry, of course, as it should, forced it to do, proceeded to process the proposal and referred it, first, to the scientific committee that advises on biodiversity protection tasks whose functioning and composition is also regulated by regulation, and neither has anyone ever questioned its composition or its functions because biodiversity is not confined to local areas, but instead it is about recovering habitats beyond the administrative boundaries. This committee, composed of 19 people from different scientific disciplines with an extremely relevant experience and which has issued 54 opinions in relation to the normative treatment of different wildlife species, with an interdisciplinary character that has helped to analyze how to consider the protection of the globe from scientific knowledge and throughout the entire ecosystem, made something extremely significant, rejected the proposal to classify the wolf as a vulnerable species, but, however, highlighted its inclusion in the List of Wildlife Species under Special Protection Regime as something important and significant. It does not support the maximum protection initiative, but insists that, taking into account all the information available, it is essential to include it in this list, a decision that is taken unanimously among its components, but also unanimously by all the experts who were consulted. And one thing is the responsibility of science when it comes to issuing its report, its criterion, analysing the information available and another very different from that of management and decision-making. That is why the ministry with the autonomous communities, local actors and social actors must be part of the process at the stage in which we are. And we have been trying from February 2020 to February 2021 to make it easier for the autonomous communities, the administrations represented on a state committee, also with composition and functions that nobody uses to address this issue. If we talked before cataloguing and after management, if we talked about management strategy first and after cataloguing and, in short, there were some, not many, but there were some who didn't want to talk about anything or cataloguing or management. This is something that, as the honourable Member, Mr Gago, mentioned earlier, is not sustainable. Politically one can have a cousin or can wait for problems to dissolve and disappear, but it is not usually the most recommended or the most frequent or the most practical. So what are the implications of including the wolf in the list? The most relevant change is that it ceases to be a kind of kinegetic exploitation. The truth is that wolf hunting in general has never been governed by population or livestock management and protection criteria. It has usually been regulated for reasons associated with quotas of animals to be hunted, territorial reasons of quotas and kinegetic reserves where it is permitted. This is not what happens in all cases in those populations, in those autonomous communities where it remains a kinegetic species, but the most common. That is why, for a time when things have changed, it is important to strengthen knowledge and transparency with regard to data, monitoring and protection mechanisms for livestock farmers, it is important to adopt the national management strategy by listening to everyone, and it is, as I say, important to agree on something that I understand, we are all already already in agreement, and it is that we must strengthen the mechanisms of coexistence between wild species and extensive livestock farming, taking care, above all, to always put at the centre of our decisions with solidarity and not just with words to the people who ensure that this is so. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u218	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u219	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, thank you for your answer. I would like to begin my turn of reply by acknowledging your efforts to contain the flood of unfavorable and critical opinions resulting from your controversial decision of 4 February on the new wolf protection figure. Yesterday you were in the Senate; today, here in Congress, tomorrow you return to the Upper House doing tandem with Mr Planas, and you also have hours to do the whole ministry, especially the Secretary of State for the Environment, Mr Morán, Asturian, of Lena, by the way. All this deployment, Mrs. Rivera, is the story of a great failure. In the controversy between the cattlemen and the wolf, you have turned against the weak and the weak have rebelled. That is why today you have thousands of farmers and the rural environment in a very important part of Spain indignant. If with the support of hundreds of scientists and the strength that gives the Government the communication and its ability to inform you have not been able to convince a single farmer of your measures in favour of the wolf, you have failed completely; from the imposition to the clutching of the farmer, who is rebelling against this persecution. You have made a decision in favour of the protection of the species that does much harm to the rural environment of north-west Spain without counting and without talking to the inhabitants of the territories where 95% of the wolves are concentrated. You promise funds and help, but the feeling of a desperate farmer for the wolf's attacks on his cabin is not relieved or resolved with money. Do you have a banknote machine? Where are some of the CAP funds going to come from, which are already very wasted today? Casually, we are facing an attack by the Government on livestock farming, which also coincides with the purpose of the Minister of Consumer Affairs, Mr Garzón, to implement in Spain the Nutri Score system, also known as a nutritional light, and also coincides with the wishes of the world gurus of the so-called new economy, who, using as a pretext for climate change, try to promote market regulations in favour of the consumption of so-called artificial meat, that is, synthetic meat - others call it food - to the detriment of the livestock sector, meat and quality food. It is a sector that goes less because of the great difficulties it has to face and that of the wolf, Mrs Rivera, is one of the main ones. His ministry and the autonomous communities that did not suffer the wolf's problem had decided against those who suffered it and suffered it exclusively. Solidarity between territories has been shattered and you are primarily responsible. I have not heard anyone talk about the extinction of the wolf, but the decision of the ministry does advance in the extinction of the farmer. You discourage a sector that is key to the production, economy and employment of our peoples. The decision to include the Iberian wolf in the Lesrpe has been made with subjective criteria; the species is not threatened and the population control measures have served to protect its permanence in the territories where they live in the last decades and even increase it. It's not in regression, it's in reverse, there's more. The ministry was under an obligation to process the proposal, but the ministry tilted the balance with its quality vote after a tie in the State Commission for Natural Heritage and Biodiversity, where such a voting process had never happened. Mrs Ribera, I refer to the facts. You are a minister of order and command, in Asturias we know it well, and I have recriminated you in this rostrum several times for your desertification of the mining basins, the closure of the thermal plants without alternatives, the Statute of the Electrointensive Consumer, which penalizes the basic industry and, now, the colossal varapalo to the farmers and to the rural environment. And you say you feel close to the ranchers? Well, you don't notice much. Finally, I would ask you, Minister, to give a hearing to the livestock sector so that the government will know firsthand what it thinks about the new figure. Before making rules and laws from the office step on the mud and callies. Talk to the ranchers. Listen also to the autonomous communities affected by the measure before it comes into legal proceedings and in a clash, between the Government of Spain and the territories of the north-west to the north of the river Duero, unprecedented in constitutional history. In conclusion, Mr President. I will register a motion following an inquiry so that the plenary of Congress can also rule on a crucial issue for the imminent future of a very important part of our rural environment. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u220	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] To conclude the debate, I have the floor, on behalf of the Government, the fourth Vice-President of the Government and Minister for the Ecological Transition and the Demographic Challenge.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u221	Thank you very much. I have to say, Mr Oblanca, that you have left me a little bewildered, because in your first speech you had understood a much more constructive and consensus-friendly tone, but this second one is full of common places which above are false. On that state committee there is no quality vote of anyone, won by majority. We have had discussions with different local actors together and separately throughout this time, although it is true that science is not discussed but management decisions are discussed. As I said before, the question is wrong. It is not a game of cattle or wolf pimp; it is about how to promote coexistence by generating mechanisms that work and knowing that they do not work today. If we blur the problem it is even more complicated to find solutions, so I invite you to refocus the problem. It is not a question of choosing between wolves or livestock, but of how to guarantee in an effective and just way a coexistence that today is neither existence nor just nor effective. It is a problem in a large part of our territory and we need a predictable mechanism for institutions and farmers, solvent for the wolf and for people, solidarity with families living in areas where they live with large predators. Believe me that extensive livestock farming for the ministry of the environment and those responsible for biodiversity is fundamental, it is a priority, it is perhaps one of the most significant from the point of view of reconciling all the elements when we talk about environmental, economic and social sustainability. It is for the rural world and it is as an activity of environmental interest that must be protected and supported. If we cross the maps from where the great trends to depopulation occur, where they coexist with extensive livestock and where they coexist with wolves, we will realize that they are maps that are not interrelated. There's no direct relationship. I wish we could have an explanation as simple as there are wolves or no wolves, or they are allowed or not allowed to hunt, but they are not; believe me, they are not. It is a production system that should facilitate the direct use of pastures as a feed source for livestock and contribute to the maintenance of landscape and genetic diversity. This deserves recognition and the European Commission insists on this, whether they like it or not. Agroecology measures are not invented by any sectarian government, but are invented with conviction, because there is a plus that deserves the recognition of society as a whole and that today, unfortunately, is not up to what it deserves. It is not a question of compensating for the loss of a head of cattle, but rather of facilitating the non-occurrence of such losses of head of cattle. As things stand, he said before that we did not find a correct and good answer for anyone and even less for farmers. That's why it's important to work. It makes little sense to keep looking the other way, to ignore the problems or to accuse lightly by saying that one or the other is greener, reder, bluer or purpler, because what matters is to think about what are the problems of people and what are the problems of our ecosystems and our species. Unfortunately, the information, the scientific knowledge is so clumsy that, you vote what you vote, if you do not act accordingly, the losses are there. I will tell you what surprised me most about that meeting on 4 February, in which the noise has been oriented towards a complex decision that needs management, which has time, which also coincides with a time when the biggest hunting fence begins and, therefore, we have room for serious and solvent bottom decisions; not in Asturias, which, as I say, has been outside this cataloguing as a kinegetic species since 1991, but in territories such as Castilla and León, where the unfounded decisions made by the Board are systematically lost before the courts. What surprised me most is that no one, no parliamentary group, has asked how we voted to agree to allow a species like the turtle to be extinct. No one has asked the slightest question about it, and that is what we are about to end up in the court with a reasoned opinion, because two years ago we told them that we would ask the hunters to behave well with the turtledove, and yet this has not been the case. The time was up when we could act as if the problem did not exist. We have a serious problem with our biodiversity. Either we take it seriously and react in time and manage properly complex decisions - of course they are complex - or, if not, we will have very difficult to give answers to our children or grandchildren from what today, fortunately, thanks to the task of Félix Rodríguez de la Fuente, we have inherited in a reasonable state of conservation. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u222	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] - OF THE CITIZEN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, TO THE VICE-President OF THE GOVERNMENT AND MINISTRY FOR THE ECOLOGICAL TRANSITION AND DEMOGRAPHIC CHALLENGE, ON THE MEASURES TAKEN BY THE GOVERNMENT FOR THE REDUCTION OF THE COST OF THE ELECTRIC FACTURATION OF THE ECONOMIC SECTORS MOST AFFECTED BY THE CRISIS OF COVID-19 ANDThose WITH HIGH STABILITY AS AGRICULTURE AND TOURISM. [[File number 172/000078]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u223	Urgent questioning by the Citizens Parliamentary Group of the fourth Vice-President of the Government and Minister for Transitional Ecological and Demographic Challenge on the measures taken by the Government to reduce the cost of the electricity bill of the economic sectors most affected by the crisis of COVID-19 and those with high seasonality, such as agriculture and tourism. For your defence, Mrs Martínez Granados has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u224	Thank you, President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, a year ago this nightmare that we are still living began, a pandemic that has so far taken more than 70,000 dead, which has forever marked our health care providers, which has led a lot of self-employed and small businesses to closure, which has led to the limit of a lot of families; in short, it has changed our lives for all of us. A year ago also since the adoption of the Royal Decree 11/2020, which collected many and different measures aimed at alleviating the effects of the health crisis, both social and economic. Among them we find a simple but very successful measure with a direct impact, which temporarily minimized part of the fixed costs of many self-employed and small businesses. I am referring to measures to make electricity supply contracts more flexible for self-employed people and businesses, in particular Article 42 of this Royal Decree 11. Existing legislation provides for the right to change power once a year without penalizing it. This allows consumers to adapt the tariff conditions to the change in consumption that they foresee will last over time and thus be able to reduce the fixed costs they have to incur in order to maintain their competitiveness. This Article 42.1 of Royal Decree 11 stated that, exceptionally, during the state of alarm, self-employed persons and enterprises could suspend or modify supply contracts to hire alternatives without being penalized. It is an important measure, because it allowed the business fabric to adapt its contracts to the new consumption patterns imposed on them by the pandemic; a measure that has allowed some sectors that have had their restricted activity in whole or in part, to breathe a little, but only in the first period of state of alarm. The sectors that benefited from this measure do not understand how the deadlines have not been extended, so that the self-employed and small businesses that still need it can continue to make this kind of changes, this type of measures. It is obvious that the crisis is going on for a long time; much more than anyone, including the Government, could think. And to be honest - because the right thing for the sectors that still drag restrictions on the development of their activity is to be honest - we still don't know how long this crisis and those restrictions from it will last. All your lordships will remember when Pedro Sánchez announced that the summer was coming and that we had finished with this virus; and look where we are still. Along with the validation of Royal Decree 11, the bill was also approved as a draft law as a matter of urgency. At that time, from my parliamentary group - I am aware that from many others too - we have done intensive work on drafting amendments for such a procedure. We have practically been waiting a year to be able to make improvements to that bill, but the presentation has not yet begun. Through this presentation, our idea was that with our amendments and those of other groups we could improve this real decree and, at best, solve problems such as the one we now find, measures that have worked, that have remained behind, and that it would be interesting, because this is what sector is asking, that we should have them back active. However, the Bureau of Congress takes away that possibility, because it eternally extends the deadlines for the processing of the draft laws of these royal decrees-laws. We could have discussed which measures to expand, which can remain active, which we can change, how to improve and, thus, add among all - which is what the President of the Government has commented here today, all together, without anyone else - and decide what measures could improve the lives of our self-employed and businesses. For example, an important measure would be the possibility of a change of power without penalty, taking into account the evolution of the pandemic and the constraints resulting from it. There are sectors, such as tourism, hospitality, nightlife, even, we have come to know that private health as well, they have not yet been able to reactivate their activity at full yield in order to have sufficient income and cope with the fixed costs of their businesses. In particular, the night entertainment, which we used to go to when we had a moment of leisure with our friends and which we have enjoyed so much, has been a year with zero income; a year. And, I wanted to ask, does anyone here know how a company, which has a year of zero income, can bear all the fixed costs without direct aid and in debt with ICO credits? Can anyone explain to me how you do that? Because I'm telling you more, it's not going to be just a year, but you still have at least half a year left to see some light in your activity. I ask you, minister, how much do you think you can handle? I ask this because it is one of the measures that, from the nightlife sector and from many tourist companies, such as hotels, where customers arrive seasonally and there are peaks, they find it very interesting that it could be active permanently or at least during the health crisis. And if that's not the case, a similar measure that could cushion those fixed expenses a little bit. It is a reality that the cost of energy is one of the most important factors in the competitiveness of our companies, but it also affects the well-being of our citizens. We know that the exceptions we have suffered recently, both climatically and in changes in consumption patterns, have affected in this sense. We also know - we are aware, from my parliamentary group - that from your ministry you are already working to implement measures that will reduce the cost of energy for citizens and businesses, such as the Renewable Sustainability Fund, which a priori seems to reduce the bill by a fairly interesting percentage. But we were not talking about that; we were talking about improving that fixed part and those power need changes, due to the restrictions on the activity of sectors that still do not work as they did before the pandemic. Do you not think that there are sectors, Minister, which, after a year of health and economic crisis and restrictions for health reasons, could do you good to keep that or other measures similar to reducing those fixed costs, which are a burden for them? To this day, after a year, there are still no direct aid measures which continue to demand all sectors related to tourism and hospitality. I also believe that it is aware that many business activities in many sectors of our economy, such as agriculture, are facing significant changes in electricity consumption needs because of this seasonal nature, which is particularly relevant to irrigation. The extra cost they have during the periods of less irrigation, where they use less irrigation because the crops so ask, ends up being severely transferred to the competitiveness of our companies, of our farmers and in the end with a measure like this we could alleviate them a little more. We have to take this into account, but I have to tell you that I have already lost count of how many times we have introduced initiatives or amendments to laws to request this, that farmers and farmers have the opportunity to reduce the power or to have two different powers over the course of the twelve months of the year. In fact, Law 1/2018 of 6 March, adopting urgent measures to alleviate the effects of drought, which was passed through a royal decree-legislative, already contained this measure. In its third final provision, Law 4/2013 of the Electrical Sector provides for access to irrigation and the possibility of having these two powers, but we see that, after more than two years of the entry into force of this Law, it has not - or at least we have not received this work - that no progress has been made on this, and that it is already approved and only necessary to regulate and implement it and that the agricultural and livestock sectors have been asking for it for a long time, we believe that it is time to implement these measures, which would also solve many aspects, especially those relating to costs. Now that we are dealing with the agri-food chain law, it would be very interesting if we could introduce this improvement also for farmers and livestock farmers. It is clear that there are many ways to help them on energy issues, for example, that they bet on renewables, but we have to think that we are experiencing a time of crisis and it is much harder to think about investing when there is so much uncertainty. That is why, Minister, we believe that it is now time to resume very positive aid which was in the real decrees of the alarm states initially and to put them back into operation, and even improved, and which will be established for any kind of crisis that has these characteristics, because, as I have said before - I think we are all aware - we do not know how long this crisis is going to last and we need the measures to be certain and the employers to receive small aid, one after another, until direct aid comes so that they can endure, so that they can be sustained. In addition, the Royal Decree 11/2020 set in motion the possibility of making these power changes contracted quickly and we know that it has worked; the sector has told us so. We also know that there are some structural shortcomings and that this implementation, for example, in the agricultural sector would be very positive, so I ask you: Minister, why do we not put in place measures to help with the issue of contracted power to reduce costs and to benefit all these sectors as much as possible? Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u225	I now give the floor, on behalf of the Government, to the fourth Vice-President of the Government and Minister for the Ecological Transition and the Demographic Challenge. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u226	Thank you, President. Thank you, Your Honor, for the questions and for the tone in which you put the questions on a question that is complex and indeed at an extraordinarily difficult and complicated time. In fact, we share from the Government the concern, the concern, the need to express and find the mechanisms that will help to deal with the economic blow that has taken place for many sectors of the economy by COVID. Agriculture has worked hard to ensure us all access to food, tourism - it is the other sector that you explicitly mentioned - has had a spectacular impact with impact on each of the subsectors - it referred to night leisure - and has been especially hard in its wider version where the weight of the tourism sector is particularly important in the local economy. In fact, over the past year, as you know, it has been one of the areas in which we have worked most to find accompanying formulas with regard to liquidity, with regard to the maintenance of people through ERTE, with regard to the flexibility of some of the tax or supply payment obligations - you also indicated - and this will be completed immediately, as announced by the President of the Government this morning, with a specific package of direct aid to each of these sectors. This, from the perspective of the Ministry for the Ecological Transition and the Demographic Challenge, has led us to consider some temporary measures during this very complex period, but it has also led us to strengthen, accelerate structural work, structural measures aimed at reducing the unnecessary costs that were being borne or accumulated in the system and to facilitate the entry of an eminently cheap generation park by operating costs, electrification, efficiency, structural reforms of the market, which allow us to operate better and at a lower cost. We have activated and continue to work on accompanying measures on energy efficiency and promoting self-consumption in all sectors, but in particular in these two, where it is significantly relevant. We know that these accompanying measures and reforms are having an effect on the reduction of the bill for light and we will continue with this trend over the next few years. The downward trend in wholesale prices over the past two years and months is significant. They are structural reforms that benefit all consumers and that must simultaneously ensure the sustainability of the system. However, as you point out indirectly - it abounded on reflection - there are certain costs of the system that are not flexible. We need to scale up and ensure the proper functioning of transport and distribution networks under any circumstances, there are high peaks of demand, there are extreme weather situations, and these are costs that today are difficult to manage flexibly. We know that this brings difficulties to the tariff flexibility that we are pursuing. We try to compensate for a significant reduction in the fixed part of the tariff and an increase in the relative weight of the variable part associated with actual consumption in the canons, the regulation of which is the responsibility of the Government. It is not possible today, unfortunately, to imagine a technical scenario of zero cost in which users can only be discharged certain days or certain months a year. Maybe sometime we can get this. Not today, because it would greatly distort the relative cost of the rest of consumers. But the changes to this new system of charges, which will soon come into operation in the coming months, will make it possible to alleviate this effect, and the seasonal consumers to which you referred will be benefited to a much greater extent. Our estimate is that agriculture and tourism are some of the most benefited sectors. It is true that we are talking about tourism or we can imagine a more significant quantitative impact when we are talking about seasonal establishments, not when we are talking about permanent establishments, but this transformation of the system of charges and tolls, which will come into force in the coming months, allows for a reduction of the electricity bill of the order of 10% for small regants or for seasonal installations of the field of tourist and hotel of seasonal character and of 8% for large installations or large regants. They are consumers with high seasonality, for which, as I say, the promotion of the variable term with respect to fixed is significant. The extraordinary measure we take in this first package, in this first period of confinement, is not sustainable over time if it does not result in a very significant increase in the rest of consumers. That is why we have preferred to go to this aid, to this direct support to the business sectors, so that it is they who attribute their choices of spending coverage in the most efficient way possible. But it is important to continue working from a structural and substantive point of view, thinking about the conditions of consumption and generation that these sectors have. As you point out, the National Fund for the Sustainability of the Electrical System will generate an additional benefit. It is in the process, it will soon arrive in this House and we are confident that we will be able to count on the support of the parliamentary groups. Our calculation is that the fund will have a positive effect and, if we accumulate the effect of this new toll and charge system, with the fixed and variable part, and the new sustainability fund, the annual invoice of a small installation or a small regatta would be reduced by 21%, for a size of 16%, for a large one by 12%, if we compare the 2019 invoice with the 2025 invoice. It's true that what matters is not the 2025 picture, what matters today. Therefore, we continue to work to consolidate a regulatory framework in which there are different levers that we need to activate. For example, in this government we believe it is essential to bet on maximizing proximity measures, distributed generation, self-consumption, creating new business models associated with key figures such as local energy communities, the independent aggregator or storage, and, of course, always ahead of all energy efficiency investment, reducing the regular costs of all consumers. This is also particularly important in facilities, in companies in the agriculture and tourism sectors. Let us start with self-consumption, which is linked to these economic activities, is fundamental. We have seen a spectacular display of self-consumption since we eliminated the so-called sun tax through Decree-Law 15/2018 and the further development of economic, administrative and technical conditions to facilitate distributed generation. This has been a fundamental first step towards deployment. Think that, between June 2018 and the end of 2019, the installed power of self-consumption increased by 94.5 %, and that in 2020, despite the stoppage of activity suffered in all sectors as a result of the pandemic, 596 megawatts were installed in a critical year, many of them in agricultural cooperatives, many of them in territories where tourist activity and, therefore, the pull of this industrial sector has been fundamental to drive as a precisely cost-cutting measure. We will still achieve more effect through collective self-consumption and energy communities, but think that the World Charter on Sustainable Tourism includes precisely self-consumption of renewable energy as one of the most important recommended measures, and that agricultural organizations were the first to manifest the elimination of the famous sun tax and to activate such measures in cooperatives. An urgent step will therefore be the launch of an instrument for self-consumption in industry and services, with a budget of 200 million euros in this year 2021, expandable to 400 million euros. This will be one of the first measures we will launch in the coming weeks, once we have completed the entire administrative procedure of the National Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan. Something similar happens with energy efficiency, both in the tourism sector and in agriculture. We have launched aid programmes for the energy rehabilitation of open buildings still with EUR 300 million. I have to say that there have been enormously diligent autonomous communities in the implementation, dissemination and implementation of such measures aimed at industry or building owners, both public and private, but there have been others in which this process has slowed down. We must push for this to be done with the utmost diligence, because it benefits all of us. are aid for actions ranging from changes in the thermal envelope, replacement of thermal generation facilities with fossil fuels with thermal generation based on renewable sources, such as biomass, geothermal, solar thermal or heat pump, or renewable electricity generation for self-consumption. As I say, it generally has a particularly good acceptance in SMEs and cooperatives in the agricultural and tourism sectors. In addition, as we committed ourselves, we want to launch a specific aid of EUR 30 million for energy efficiency actions in agricultural holdings. We have been working to do so with the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food. And this package will be reinforced through the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan and extended to other particularly significant and important areas of action: work on the envelope, building - critical for hotels -, work on the impulse of renewable generation and distributed generation. We know that the flexibility of electricity and natural gas contracts for self-employed people and businesses initially envisaged, or the reduction of the contracted power and the contracted flow, or the suspension of the contract of supplies without penalty are not measures that we can maintain over time. We know that the package of measures accompanying self-employed people, SMEs, particularly in the tourism and trade sector, will certainly have a positive effect on how to cope with this type of supply which, if not, must be covered by another route. During this period of alarm the payment of all invoices was suspended, when requested, and those high consumptions have been facilitated and benefited by these flexibility measures. We will continue to work on the whole package of measures that we believe can benefit people, businesses, SMEs and the self-reliant, within a framework that must not only address structural reforms, but ensure the sustainability of the system as a whole. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u227	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Martínez Granados has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u228	Thank you very much, Minister. Thank you for your answers, with lots of content, as you always do, but I wanted to insist on something. In this inquiry I have told you of two types of measures, some urgent, which were implemented in this Royal Decree-Law 11, and others related, but already for seasonal problems. Of the first ones, of the urgent ones, I think they do need more, because this crisis is spreading surprisingly, and I mean the fact that first we thought it was going to be three months, but the thing at the end has not been so. And also understanding that there are those costs that are not flexible, those charges and tolls, we know that during that time of confinement, when the economy was practically paralyzed, it could be done and worked very well. The question is that the hospitality sectors, the nightlife, the tourism sector in general, all those sectors to which today they tell that they can open until seven, tomorrow until nine, and then that they will be fifteen days without being able to open, they also need urgent measures, they need more flexibility. We can understand that in the long run these kinds of measures do not work best and that they are looking for others. Perfectly, we also bring our ideas into the motion resulting from this inquiry, but we have to see it in urgency, in the now, because the measures you want to implement to balance the fixed part and the variable part have a time of implementation, and what worries us is this time. Since the summer, when the state of alarm ended and these measures fell, to this day they have had to bear those costs. The one who wanted to try to start his activity in the summer, for example, any hotel in any area of our country, what has he done? He had to change the tariff in order to start working, to mobilize himself knowing that the president was telling him that everything was solved, that we had finished the virus, but it turns out that no And now they are at a time when the circumstances are changing again, but almost one day to another. That is why I say to you that I think it is interesting that a feasible way be studied for the sector that has seasonal activity, such as tourism or as the hotelmaker or the farmer, but we also have to respond to those needs during this crisis. Because it's the sector that's getting those restrictions right now that's not to blame, and we need to respond. They have been practically paralysed for over a year; after a year of health crisis, no direct aid has been provided. Today they have announced direct aid; direct aid that we have been asking for since September. But nothing comes from day to day. The royal decrees-laws, when the government has interest and when they want to bring a lot of issues to this Congress, take them out from day to day to deal urgently with measures like this. That is why I say to you, Minister, that the tourism sector, the night-time leisure sector, need to take measures for the duration of the crisis, because since all this aid for self-consumption, for the implementation of renewables, until the climate change law arrives and can be passed - if it has a sufficient majority to go forward - all this takes time, and the hoteliers, the entrepreneurs of night-time leisure, the tourism companies, have less and less time. That is why we ask you - and so we register a motion for the next plenary - to take urgent and temporary measures, apart from considering the possibility that in agriculture and seasonal activities you will put concrete measures to lower that fixed part, or even continue to insist that this change of power can be made without penalty. Thank you very much, Minister. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u229	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] To conclude the debate, I have the floor on behalf of the Government, the fourth Vice-President of the Government and Minister for the Ecological Transition and the Demographic Challenge.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u230	Thank you, President. Thank you very much, Your Honor, for your comments on this speech and your proposals and suggestions on what to do in the short and medium term. It is true that 2020 will be remembered as the worst year in the history of tourism, hospitality and trade in our country. An extraordinarily tough year, which has prompted a series of measures taken by the Government to provide these sectors with security, certainty, to deal with the situation they faced every day. A safety net is needed to ensure their survival and facilitate recovery, and this is what the President of the Government announced this morning, adding to an ambitious safety net that has been deployed over these months, including the transfer of resources to the autonomous communities to accompany the most damaged sectors. Some have done it one way, others have done it another way. It is a network that must protect the productive fabric, which must facilitate family incomes in the face of the economic and social crisis. It is a network that has also been responding to the lifting of restrictions and a network that we have tried to adapt, adjusting as we were knowing and understanding how the virus, the pandemic evolves, and how it affects the different sectors, which is obvious that we did not know in March when it broke out. An extraordinary effort has been made to support the tourism sector, hospitality and trade, allocating more than €62 billion, demonstrating our commitment to the viability of a key sector, of sectors critical to the functioning of our economy, and probably with a very high percentage of our country's total employment, critical in some autonomous communities, particularly dependent on this activity. This has enabled us to secure a basis in the business and economic fabric, and to cushion the negative impact, not eliminate it; unfortunately we have not been able to eliminate it. It is true that for a few months we have maintained an alteration in the revenues of the electricity system that has been covered by the General Budgets of the State. There are three options, General State Budgets, to share the cost among all consumers or to seek direct decision-making formulas from those consumers, which has been the option for which we have finally decided. These are fixed costs, in conjunction with the need to ensure sustainability and reforms. We know that there are accompanying mechanisms in these reforms that allow us to simultaneously encourage other types of economic and employment-generating activities; he referred earlier to efficiency, distributed generation or self-consumption. It is obvious that it is not the same potential that an agrarian cooperative or a large hotel can have as the potential or needs that a nightclub can have in a large city, where an hourly limitation is applied for citizens as a whole and for young people and users in particular. Therefore, working on structural measures from an energy point of view is one thing and, therefore, the accompaniment and incentive to maintain the economic and industrial fabric is another. We set out different tools to face one and the other reality. However, we will follow with great attention and interest all those proposals that bring us forward. We trust that this situation will change, that we can start a path of stable recovery and that we can encourage synergies between the different agendas before us: employment, innovation, stability and economic recovery, together with the energy transition, which is so important and significant not only from an energy point of view, but also from an industrial and employment point of view in our country. In any case, I thank you for the interpellation and opportunity to discuss this with you. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u231	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] - THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, FOR THE GOVERNMENT TO EXPLAIN THE SITUATION OF WOMEN IN SPAIN AT A YEAR OF THE CREATION OF THE MINISTER OF EQUALITY. [[File number 172/000079]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u232	Urgent inquiry by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress into the situation of women in Spain at the one-year anniversary of the creation of the Ministry of Equality. Mrs Prohens Rigo has the floor for her defence.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u233	Thank you very much, Mr President. Madam Minister, today I want to start with a question that many Spaniards ask themselves. Minister, what are you doing? No, really, what have you been doing for the last 12 months? We already know that there are ministers who don't work on Mondays, but what about you? [[Rumors]] Their performance in the Government is invisible, non-existent, counterproductive or all at once. For you, this feminist ministry is a memory-filled tool that must serve to meet the demands of our time. That's what you said over a year ago. The result: more female unemployment, more gap, less equality. Way to meet women's demands. You throw down the work of decades in which different political governments have worked to improve women's society and lives. Do you remember just a year ago when you came here and explained to us that by 8-M you would have the law of 'yes yes' ready? What year did you mean, Minister? We told him that a law was not a manifesto and that there was no way to grab it. Months later it was her colleagues on the Council of Ministers who forced her to withdraw from the Congress of Deputies. Unpublished. Today is the General Council of the Judiciary. A year later, nothing, but nothing of that law, no; nothing at all, zero. That's right, we already put figures on the 8-M and the information that was saved for the caste. Do you remember 'don't kiss' or 'not with your hand'? Confining seven days earlier would have saved 23 000 lives in the first wave, according to a recent report. 23 000 families would not be broken, 23 000 people were killed in it. [[Applauds]] Its opacity on Women's Day 2020 will remain in the annals of history as one of the blackest episodes in this country. 8M not only cost him his credibility, it cost him lives. And, unlike other formations, the People's Party considers that it is necessary for Women's Day, for all that is claimed. Freedom, tolerance and equality must be the pillars of this country. That is why the women of this country will have to leave behind their vehemently and confrontational policies, and look for a path that involves society as a whole. Because I repeat: the criticisms of your performance are not criticisms of feminism, in fact, how things have changed: three hundred and sixty-five days later, the criticisms come to you from feminism. [[Applauds]] You, who were believed to be the embodiment of the universal feminist movement. In fact, today there are many more reasons to claim equality in Spain than a year ago, because the situation of women in Spain today is worse than a year ago: 2273 000 women are unemployed, the unemployment rate in Spain has risen above that of the rest of European countries; the wage gap has been triggered up to 21.4%, 0.4% from April to September; and Spain has fallen 10 points in the ranking of equality in just two years. The doubt that I have, and I really regret it, because, unlike you, I believe that all women should feel free, regardless of their ideology, to go out and claim their rights in a feminism of all and against anyone, is if this year you could do it, if you would let it be the 24 million women of Spain who have seen the setback in inclusive policies, and the unprecedented confrontation that they have created among feminists. Today we know that they authorize demonstrations on 8 March while they disallow demonstrations from the tourism sector, all according to scientific criteria, I imagine. Your confrontation with Vice President Calvo to see who holds this flag is the unequivocal sign that you are not to solve women's problems, you only see votes. They do not care to move forward in solving the problems of real women, but to continue with a feminism that excludes the majority of women in this country. At least I have to admit, you and Mrs Calvo agree on something: that public money is nobody's. It can be used for anything, from creating a customer network in Andalusia to paying the nanny. The prosecution today asks for a separate piece to investigate the 'Nani case', more than 50,000 public euros that we pay among all for their personal service. [[Applauds]] Tictac, Mrs. Montero, tictac. [[Applauds]] This has a name, Minister. Besides how unfair it is that you face working women in this country that you are privileged, that you can take your daughter to work while you have not moved a finger to encourage, for example, the installation of children's schools in businesses or free education from 0 to 3 years. You, for example, have not implemented any co-responsibility policy, but the fact that your conciliation is paid by all the Spaniards has a name, Minister, and I hope you will give the court the explanations you refuse to give before this Congress. Is that what you mean, Minister, when you talk about care policies, when you leave homeworkers without a subsidy while you pay your private kangaroo - we pay - EUR 50 000? Are you talking about this when you say that the care of children rests with women? Mrs Montero, I don't care what you do in your private life, I respect you and I criticize you as a minister of the Government of Spain that you are, but if your private life is paid for by all the Spaniards, this is no longer more than a privilege of caste that you criticized to become something else. And the D.A. sees it that way. [[Applauds]] Minister, in life there are things that cost a lot of money and things that are expensive, everything depends on the usefulness they have, because their ministry is expensive, not because it is not necessary to invest in equality policies, because it is necessary to continue to end the glass roofs or sticky floors, but because you have shown that you are unable to do so. You have a problem, you are the incoherence made minister as well as your party, the anti-system, have discovered how to live very well from this system. Do you really believe that you represent the empowered, free, strong women of this country? Do you think it's generating great synergies and big consensuses? It is not much of a Minister of Equality to remain impassive while millions of women lose their freedom. Yes, because losing your job is that, it's losing your freedom, your freedom to decide whether to stay or give a doorway, and your freedom not to depend on anyone. It is not much of a minister of equality that millions of Spaniards continue to expect a minimum income that does not arrive and that penalizes especially women. It is not very feminist that condemns to ruin feminized sectors such as tourism or commerce while denying them help. It is nothing feminist that has cut the maternity supplement in pensions that the People's Party set up, punishing large families and middle pensions. [[Applauds]] It is nothing feminist that you allow them to dry the child allowance as the only help to families, as the queues of hunger grow with the face of a woman, and it is nothing empowered that you look away while the head of your party, the vice president of the Government, guards SIM cards to protect and decide on a collaborator, assuming, according to the judge, a crime with aggravating gender. It is not very sober for you to defend the expulsion of a fellow member of a parliamentary group being on maternity leave because politics does not stop, according to you, while, I insist, we pay you the 'nani'. Regardless of their internal struggles, which bring us carelessly, what message are you giving to the women of this country? You want them to give up their work, take care of their children? That if you don't take your kids to work they're bad mothers or'bad parents? What a setback there is in you, Minister! That's a long way back! Have you not had time, Minister, to work on the Anti-Trafficking for Sexual Exploitation Act? Do they continue their internal discussions? [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] And speaking of minors and sexual exploitation, Mrs Montero, it is not about being a feminist, being sorority, being a minister or being a good person that you are making efforts to cover up the plot of sexual exploitation of minors in the Balearic Islands. [[Applauds]] We have warned you, Minister, until the end, despite your silence, despite your votes against the committees of inquiry and despite your political make-up committees, it is now Europe that brings the colours to this government. As Minister of Equality, don't you feel ashamed? Aren't you ashamed that you didn't move a finger for these kids? Have you condemned them to their ostracism and pasticism? Do you know that some of these cases took more than a year to file complaints on the part of those responsible? Do you know that those responsible for your party and the PSOE hid these cases for three years until they jumped into the press? Three years for the sister, I do believe you. Do you know that they say that it is a problem of society that children are not protected? Do you know that these minors have been removed from their families precisely to protect them better? Do you know that after your fall, no one has fallen? Do you know that new cases have appeared after the public complaint? Do you know that today we have a new case of a prostitution network that exploited minors in the Balearic Islands in a closed regime center? Do you know that the prosecution has said of Monica Oltra, in Valencia, that she hid the evidence for the abuse of a minor? Mrs.Montero, do you know anything? Why have you abandoned these children? Why this contempt? What are they going to tell Europe? Look, Europe has sent you a letter with the same question as I started this speech, which I hope you will answer. What are you and what are you doing for? Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u234	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to infect the speaker's rostrum]] The Minister for Equality then has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u235	Very good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The People's Party, like so many other times, has come to this House to support a thesis that basically is that the worse women are, the more barriers they find because they are women in our society, the less necessary are policies of equality or, what is the same, that feminist policies serve nothing at all. [[protests]] [[Rumors]] Better not get involved in that, than Mr. Rajoy would say, talking about the pay gap. They have come here to explain something to us so that equality policies don't work because all women are very strong and we get where we get without anyone's help, and because we don't need anyone else to do what we do. [[Protests. - Rumors.]] Look, I don't doubt...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u236	Excuse me, Minister. One second, please. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, your spokesman has been speaking for twelve minutes with the absolute silence of the House, and with the absolute respect of each and every member of the House. I ask all of you to do exactly the same and let the Minister speak, please. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u237	Thank you very much, Mr President, for defending good education in this House. [[Rumors]] I do not doubt that women, as I told them, arrive where they arrive not only by themselves, but many times overcoming the triple of barriers that any man but, of course, then what are you saying? That the women-who are the vast majority - who do not arrive is because they do not strive? That those who aren't able to take off the sticky soils is because they're not worth it, because they haven't tried hard enough? In the end, you have a problem, which is that you share with your governing partners, the extreme right of VOX, and that you refuse to recognize that there is an economic and social structure that is unjust, that penalizes women in a deep way and that must be transformed from the root, that our economic system is organized on a great hypocrisy, and that is to think that no one irons, that no one frigates, that no one makes the purchase, that no one cares for children or dependent people, is to think that all these care tasks do not need time or effort, it is not to recognize that there is a social and economic structure organized on the basis of a sexual division of labour that says that women have to be at home, in the private sphere, dealing with social reproduction tasks, and that the field of the public and productive tasks is the very domain of men. They deny, in fact, the obvious, and it is that the barriers that we find women in developing vital projects that seem to us, we find them by the mere fact of being women. That is what you deny and what you deny your partners of the far right, VOX, and that is why you despise equality policies, all the more, of course, this ministry, which is simply a challenge to your own way of conceiving politics. [[Applauds]] However, I defend the contrary idea, ladies and gentlemen. This Government, and I myself, defend the idea that equality policies, feminist policies save lives; they not only serve to make many women survive, but that all women - also the poor, also migrants, also those who are in an irregular administrative situation, which are never part of their discourse - can build a better present and a better future and develop their lives fully. Especially in times of crisis the feminist policies are the only ones that can, first, contain the coup because the crises always hit women more and, second, avoid a retreat of decades, as we are being warned by all the international organizations that can happen not only in Spain, but throughout the world. If there are no feminist policies, we will find a decade-long setback in women's effective access to all their rights - by the way, something that in Europe many of those who are pushing it are their European partners -, setbacks in the right to abortion and many other rights that save women's lives. [[Rumors]] Let's start with the data. Women's employment has indeed been the most hit in the pandemic, much more than men, with a higher unemployment rate of 4 points. This effect happens exactly the same in the previous economic crisis and, do you know anything else? It was predictable, so much so that this Government predicted it as well as all international agencies, something that is explained by the structure of wage labour in Spain, because women have more precarious jobs, more temporary jobs and more concentration in those sectors that are going to take longer to recover. Women are concentrated in a smaller number of occupational sectors, which are also less paid and valued. For example, 98% of domestic workers are women. In 2018, 53.5% of women worked in the services sector, which is one of the most difficult to recover. There is therefore an economic structure that penalizes women, which is unfair and aggravated by economic crises. You and VOX deny this. We also need to talk about how women have had to throw their houses behind their backs again. Who's left the jobs? Who has reduced the number of days? Who takes most of the excesses or any kind of leave for the care of daughters or children? The data - I have them here and I can give them to you if you want them - are overwhelming: between 80 and 90% of those surpluses and those permits are taken by women for childcare, dependent people and even for household chores. We are less women in senior management positions, in parliaments, less mayors, less councillors, less presidents, less in all constitutional bodies and also less in your party and party, because you are on the line of equality and parity in executive bodies. [[pointing to the seats of the People's Parliamentary Group in the Congress]] [[pointing out the seats of the VOX Parliamentary Group]] [[Applauds]] Do you know where we are? In all statistics of macho violence, which increases during the pandemic. We are the most harassed, stalked, assaulted, mistreated and murdered. Calls to 016 have multiplied. In the end, maybe we could share the analysis. Of course there's an unequal structure! Of course, there is an unequal structure that penalizes women and is aggravated by crises. They're not isolated cases, it's called patriarchy, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]] Indeed, all these are inequalities that women suffer from being women. [[The lady]] I could stop at the things you guys did when you were ruling. A job reform that precariouses employment. Budget cuts in equality and gender-based violence policies by 47.6%; not by 10 or 20, but by 47.6%. They left the most vulnerable women without access to health in the context of an unprecedented crisis in our country. The reform of the Abortion Act, which leaves adolescents in our country in the dark especially. The elimination of the subject of Education for Citizenship. The elimination of municipal competences on an equal footing. The elimination of the right to social security contributions by the system of non-professional caregivers. Elimination of the right to access to assisted reproduction for lesbian and unmarried women. Cuts in education, including child education from 0 to 3 years. One in three dependents, with their last Government, ceased to receive the assistance to which they were entitled. That, on which shoulders are you going? About the women, ladies and gentlemen. This is about what it rained during the pandemic. Not content with this, you are now responsible for the extreme right, which denies that women suffer violence by being women, to have a foot in all the autonomous parliaments in which you govern, because without them you would also be outside all those governments. [[Applauds]] But don't worry, I'll tell you what we've done from the Ministry of Equality and the government in just a year through this health emergency. Sometimes I come to think that you have voted against it because you have not even read the initiatives, because, if not, your votes against and your abstention from all feminist policies are inexplicable. I want to think you haven't even read them. I'll tell them to see if listening, they understand them better. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u238	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u239	Contingency plan to combat gender-based violence extended to all forms of violence against women, including trafficking, sexual exploitation and women in prostitution contexts - was operating within 48 hours of the state of alarm statement - ensuring the working conditions of 016 workers. It is a contingency plan congratulated by the United Nations and the Council of Europe, which are highlighting the work we are doing in the context of health emergency to combat sexist violence. We launched the first WhatsApp state line for emotional restraint and psychological assistance to victims of male violence and the first system of accreditation complementary to the police for victims of trafficking and sexual exploitation, because women do not have to report to be protected and cared for, as all international agencies claim. [[Applauds]] We passed the preliminary draft law on sexual freedom in March, just as we committed ourselves. It is a pioneering law that proposes to stop distinguishing between abuse and aggression, which dares with the pimp industry, ladies and gentlemen, which recovers the rental third party, which improves the criminalization of pimping. It is something you have not dared to do in all the years you have ruled, face to face with the pimp industry. [[Applauds]] We incorporate the creation of children's homes to specifically care for all children who are victims of sexual violence. We have worked to have the new national strategy to combat sexist violence working in 2021. With the Plan Spain protects you against male-based violence, under European funds, we will create crisis centers 24 hours in every corner of our country. We incorporate into the children's law, which I hope will be adopted, such fundamental issues as the prohibition of parental alienation syndrome or the suspension of the visiting regime at the minimum sign of gender-based violence. We have banned redundancies and ensured jobs and the survival of businesses through the ERTE mechanism. We have developed, in the midst of a health emergency, two standards to guarantee... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u240	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u241	... remunerative transparency and equal pay, and the effectiveness of equality plans in enterprises. I think it is not wrong to have done this in just half a year that we had been in the government when we took it forward, something you were not able to do in two legislatures. You were telling me about co-responsibility. For the first time in Spain there will be 200 million in the Corresponsible Plan, a decisively feminist policy managed directly by the Ministry of Equality to ensure the reconciliation of families with children under the age of 14. With the approval of the budgets, we invest more than ever in the fight against sexist violence and in policies of equality. We encourage - you also refer to this - the education of children from 0 to 3 years with 300 million and we have ensured equal and non-transferable maternity and paternity permits. Not to mention the creation of the first LGTB participation council and the first steps taken with massive support to pass the LGTBI laws and the trans law, because it is important not to forget that feminist policies are also policies of care for diversity. I am very willing to be self-critical, but you know better than anyone, from your own experience when you govern, that with you in the government not one of these measures that I have reported would have been possible. [[I have said many times that if this Government has a duty it is not with all women, it is particularly with the mothers of this country, also with young women, but particularly with the mothers, who have juggled in the past year.]] So much so that you have had the little shame of voting against or abstaining from each of these measures when it is up to you to vote in this Congress. These measures, although insufficient, are also essential to contain the severity of the impact of the crisis on women. These measures are possible, of course, because there is a feminist government that also recovers a Ministry of Equality. [[Applauds]] All this - I conclude with this, President -, this Government, feminist policies and the Ministry of Equality, is of course the result of the tireless struggle of millions of women, yesterday and today, in our country, because women as women not only have more barriers, we also organize ourselves, we are also able to organize the popular movement with the most capacity for transformation at international level right now. The question, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, is where you are. We, this Government, have made it clear, with women, with feminism on 8 March, pushing for equality. Where are you, feminism or VOX? Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.-Applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations, Puedos-En Comú Puedo-Galicia in Communal,]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u242	Thank you, Minister. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Prohens Rigo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u243	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs. Montero, this morning you said that Mrs. Carmen Calvo had intervened in the ministry. What I did not imagine was that I had also spoken to you in the speeches, because it really is bad milk to bring you up here today to talk about care policies, Minister. This speech has been written to you by Vice President Carmen Calvo, I have no doubt. [[Applauds]] What care policies are you talking about? Of which we pay all the Spaniards to you so that you can put us in the face that you can? Of course you can! So can anyone, minister. Minister, neither I nor my party have ever denied inequality in Spain; in fact, we are telling you that today we are worse than a year ago, that today women in Spain are worse than before you were a minister. And you said they've banned them from firing. This would have to be told to the more than two million women who are in unemployment: who have banned dismissal. [[Applauds]] I repeat, what is the use of the 451 million of your ministry for childish politics? This is not what I say, Mrs Montero; this is what the feminist movement says. And it's that you can't direct your anger towards this party, when it's the feminist movement that's telling you that you're doing policies against women, policies that go against women's legal security. And today, speaking of legal certainty, another has just let go of us, apart from the fact that it has not made clear to me whether the law of 'only is yes' is for this 8-M or we have to wait for the next one. You said: at least a hint of gender-based violence. A fine legal concept, at least a hint of gender-based violence. And I ask you, Mrs Montero - and you don't laugh, that this is serious - what is the minimum sign of gender-based violence or sexual exploitation for children under guardianship? What is the slightest hint to you for them? More than a year to report, Mrs. Montero. [[Applauds]] You haven't answered me and I've asked you questions. We believe that equality policies are needed; what happens is that you are not the equality minister that this country needs. This is your problem, that you believe feminism, that you believe you possess omnipresent equality. And what have you done, for example, in a year, so that all orphans, victims of gender-based violence, are included in the orphan's pension, when they are not and are claimed by the People's Party? What have you done to implement the 292 measures of the state pact that pushed the People's Party, which you wanted to sign, but which your party's alpha males banned at the last minute and did not allow you to sign, Minister? [[Applauds]] Madam Minister, what have you done, for example, to prevent the maternity allowance from being cut in pensions? A family with four children received, together with the People's Party, about 6000 euros of pension; now, only about 1000 euros. What have you done? What kind of equality is this for families? Of course, you can, because you, at the expense of any family, discount that of the nanny; but the rest of the families of this country are not so, Minister. Look, you will pass, your management will pass to history and the numbers in inequality will increase as the unemployment numbers also grow, even though you have forbidden dismissal. We do not get stronger, minister; the women of this country we get poorer, more unequal, with more difficulty in reconciling our professional and work life, with more difficulty in having or raising a family. This is reality and we do not deny it. We tell you that you have done nothing to change this reality. From the People's Party, you will have your hand extended, but to work on real policies that will solve the real problems of women out there, who will pay us for that; you too. That is why we demand that you present a women's employment plan and a genuine co-responsibility plan by 8 March. The corporal. Madam Minister, lessons of feminism and equality for this party, not half. The women of the People's Party broke the glass roofs in the first mayors of Spain, in Congress, in the Senate, in the presidencies of autonomous communities, when you didn't even know what glass roof meant. Thank you very much. [[Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, on the floor]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u244	Thank you, Mrs. Prohens. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] To conclude the debate, I have the floor on behalf of the Government, the Minister for Equality.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u245	Thank you, President. Everything you said that wasn't insulting was about the law on the integral guarantee of sexual freedom, and in particular you wondered why you're not here, in the Congress of Deputies. With regard to the law on the integral guarantee of sexual freedom, the law of 'only is yes', the General Council of the Judiciary has been more than three months late in the issuance of the report, which is mandatory to continue the processing of the law. Normally, the General Council of the Judiciary has these reports in one month, which is the deadline it has set, but, as far as I am concerned - I am not going to be asked - this time it has been delayed three more months over the deadline it had. [[laughs]] We hope that in the next few days he will draw up his report. He has not taken the report out, but has made some worrying progress. He said that he was going to oppose the elimination of the distinction between abuse and rape, that he was going to oppose consent being the centre of our Penal Code and the consideration of sexual violence. That, of course, reminded me of the year 2004. Do you remember the 2004 Gender Violence Act? When that law came to the General Council of the Judiciary, his spokesman said that he considered the norm to be bad for regulating only violence against women and, in addition, he explained that he raised serious doubts about constitutionality - he recalls much of that of the normative quality that the honourable Member said -. He explained that the 2004 law raised constitutional doubts about the creation of new criminal types in which the active person is always the man and the passive a woman. It also criticized the establishment of specific courts to deal with violence against women. Do you know who the spokesman of the General Council of the Judiciary was? Enrique López, the gentleman who elected Mr. Married to negotiate the new General Council of the Judiciary. [[Applauds]] But, you guys, there's always feminism. [[Laughter]] It is true that this Government will always reach out to them to read the projects, to read the General Budgets of the State and to read the Correspondent Plan. In fact, you ask the autonomous communities in which you govern whether or not you agree with that Co-responsible Plan. Fortunately, you have in the autonomous communities people who, despite deploying anti-feminist policies, when it comes to talking to the Ministry of Equality at least you read the roles of the things we are implementing. And I repeat the question: This March 8th, for this year so difficult for women, who are you going to be with, with feminists or with VOX? Thank you very much, Your Honor. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Puedos-En Comú Puedos-Galicia in Communal and the Socialist Parliamentary Group, applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u246	Thank you, Minister. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] MOTIONS CONSEQUENCE OF EMERGENCY INTERPELATIONS: [[CONTINUATION]] - OF THE VOX PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, ON WHAT MEASURES THE GOVERNMENT IS GOING TO TAKE TO COMPLETE ALL THE SPAINS WHO HAVE BEEN PROHIBITED TO WORK. [[File number 173/000052]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u247	We continue with the motion resulting from an urgent inquiry by the VOX Parliamentary Group, on what measures the Government will take to compensate all Spaniards who have been banned from working. The author group of the initiative, and for the defence of the motion, has the floor Mrs Rueda Perelló. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u248	Thank you, Madam President. This morning Sánchez said that we are getting closer to recovery; he was talking about employment, about digitizing the productive sector. But what productive sector will be digitized if it is destroying it? What recovery, if we go to the queue? What employment, if its policies are machinery of mass destruction of employment and future? These fallacies and many more in a Aló President in which he lies, once again, to all the Spaniards. He talked about VOX's threat. It is normal that they see us as a threat, because we are going to put an end to the state of the welfare of politicians, their chiringuitos and waste, their lies, their distribution of chairs and their dirty hands in our pockets, in young people and in children. [[Applauds]] VOX brings a motion to urge the Government to take a political decision as a matter of urgency. It would be urgent to cease, but in the meantime it is urgent for the Government to compensate those who are prohibited from working; it is urgent for them to protect Spain and not to destroy it with prohibitions and restrictions that vary according to the autonomous community, prohibitions that begin to be discussed by the courts. The social-criminal government kidnaps and sinks us, dynamites the welfare state and blocks the economy, and all it offers is indebtedness, postponements, liquidity problems, crisis, uncertainty and agony. That is why this motion, in which we call for compensation for businesses and self-employed people who have been affected by the restrictions imposed by the Government. Mr Bell this morning asked Sánchez for direct aid; Errejon spoke of suicides and the reality out there; Echenique spoke of aid to tourism. As a matter of consistency, I understand that they will vote in favour. Or are they exercising their falsehood and hypocrisy again? Socialists, extreme leftists, separatists, their deaf ideological and totalitarian blindness prevent them from seeing the reality, because today it is about saving businesses, protecting themselves, maintaining and creating jobs, avoiding queues of hunger and hospitality professionals asking for alms, preventing an even greater crisis, and if they are not able to set up businesses, at least do not destroy them. Political spending, propaganda, waste of money, lies and, even worse, a government that encourages violence in the defense of a criminal. They forbid opening up to hospitality, commerce and night entertainment, but with these acts they favor attacking our police officers, breaking windows to ruined merchants and destroying urban furniture that we pay with taxes. To Mr. Rufián I say that they are not mere containers, that it is street violence, that it is to frighten the Spaniards and that it is spent, because, who pays the container? Yours? Are the puppies in the CUP? Because the next day, who's gonna clean up? They? What a low social awareness and a low level of shame! By the way, where are the feminists? Because I have not heard any condemnation of the brutal attack suffered by an agent. [[Applauds]] This motion is necessary. Last Friday, in Tenerife, the president of the Spanish Confederation of Hotels and Tourist Accommodation told me: at first it was a crisis of solvency, now the treasury is added to that of solvency. Ladies and gentlemen, safeguarding companies and establishing levers for reactivation should be their priority. A closed hotel has maintenance, security costs - they have to pay security because they have valuable elements inside and because they are afraid of octopus - and gardening, garbage fees, taxes like the IBI... In Tenerife a four-star hotel and 217 rooms pay an IBI of 200 000 euros. Closed, how are you gonna pay? They need to expand gaps, incentives, business plans, bonuses, vaccines, safe runners, test and recover the Imserso program, because for each euro invested the return is 1.65 euros. In the Canary Islands I was told that they are concerned about immigration. The image of immigrants wandering the streets is a hard blow for the Canary Islands, for Malaga, for Spain, and the government is responsible for the so-called effect and the ruin. Last week I met Enrique, an autonomous hero, as many autonomouss. Enrique has his restaurant in Tenerife and, due to the unsustainable situation, suffered a heart attack. At five days he returned to work because - he says - I am autonomous. He told me: Do you know what kills me? I can't renew my people's contracts. I want to work, but they won't let us breathe. Progress? Fall back. Ladies and gentlemen, the history of Enrique or the history of Jorge must matter to them, because they legislate for them. They will vote against and claim that they have decree 35 - which is insufficient -, the ICOs and the ERTEs - those that involve indebtedness - or the money of Europe - that many will not see because they have stayed on the road and because these funds will not reach all -. Given the dramatic reality, what we have to do is make right decisions based on the common good. So, in front of this government that stands next to the criminals, in front of this government that abandons our agents, prison officials and the Armed Forces, in front of this government that ruins the tourism sector and trade, in front of the government that destroys the industry, is VOX, and we will work and fight every day for every self-employed, entrepreneur, worker and unemployed in this country. Because we are with early Spain and because always, we will always be next to our nation and the Spaniards. So you are not alone, because every day we are stronger and because there is no more strength than the strength of the heart, and that is beyond us. So our support for all Spanish families. Thanks family and a lot of strength. Force to Spain, force to the tourism sector, which is going through frankly wrong, force to those Spaniards who feel abandoned, force to those whom these policies humiliate and force all people to good, because truth, goodness and beauty prevail. Thank you. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u249	Thank you, Mrs. Rueda. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] In order to defend the amendments put forward by your groups, Mrs Martínez Granados is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u250	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, the first thing we have done in Citizens when we see this text is to stop at the title of this motion, a clearly populist title and which then does not correspond to the content of the motion. In the explanatory statement, ladies and gentlemen of VOX, you make a use of language that virtually relieves you of any responsibility for the measures that have been taken and are still being taken to mitigate the effects of the pandemic. You look away at what has been approved in this plenary and blame others for the restrictions or effects of the pandemic, when, in case it serves as a reminder, it was you who held an election rally, attended by about 10,000 people, the weekend before the state of alarm statement. Make him look at it! You act like the pandemic is something of others. In Citizens we have always acted responsibly and, therefore, voted in favour of states of alarm when the epidemiological situation left no choice but to restrict mobility; we were responsible. With this we are not accusing the Government - for nothing - which acted clearly irresponsiblely and only took action when we already had hundreds of dead in our country. They were looking the other way, it wasn't important. The Government's actions have come late, gone wrong and have been clearly insufficient. Thus we have made clear from Citizens that at the end of March we have already presented our first plan for the revival of tourism and, since then, we have not stopped presenting initiatives, proposing amendments to the Royal Decree-Laws of the Government, and participating in the Reconstruction Commission and in the debate on the General Budgets of the State. In September, we called on the Minister of Industry, Commerce and Tourism to ask for direct aid, and it is today, a year later, when President Sánchez brings to this House the announcement of 11 billion in hotel and tourism aid. We will have to see how they are distributed, we will have to see how they arrive and we will have to see how many people can access these aids, because we are sure that it will not be easy to access them, especially with the lack of transparency that we are seeing and that, thanks to Mr de VOX, it will also affect European funds, because they have allowed Mr Sánchez and Mr Iglesias to do whatever they want with these European funds, and possibly the same will happen with these aids. So let's work together to make it more transparent. In all these cases that I have enumerated, especially in the General Budgets of the State, you have come up with a profile, just by bringing out a hunch and an attitude of fallen arms, taking into account the serious situation we have been through. Possibly the most important General State Budgets have been brought to this House, and in VOX they decided that better not to work, better to make videos on social networks because the Spaniards they represent were not important. From Citizens we have defended since the beginning of the pandemic that the Government must ensure the survival of the business fabric, and that is why we voted in favour of the ERTEs, because they were necessary as a mechanism to make the reduction of activity more flexible. We also voted in favour of the ICOs. Why not? First of all, they could be a good measure. But it is clear that what this sector needs is an important budget for direct aid, which is what we have seen in its non-legislative proposal, to which we have tabled amendments. I have to thank you for negotiating a compromise with us, because we believe that we can all add up to help the sector, which, in short, is what we want, to help the sector, the initiative presented by whoever comes. However, you allow yourself the luxury of voting against the ERTE. We don't understand. If you want to help all these people, think things over, be responsible. You also think that when we actually had the opportunity to turn over the accounts of this government and use the budgets as a mechanism to get this kind of action, you were not in the Commission to vote on those amendments that could have gone ahead. Many of the amendments and measures that have subsequently been tabled by many groups, including Citizens, could have gone ahead if you had been there, but were not. So take note because we can all do things, but we have to work. They act as if the response to the coronavirus crisis had nothing to do with you, but the reality is that you refused to make the slightest contribution to save the European funds from the hands of this government and to give it transparency. If they work together and propose things and if they do not give the government power over these European funds, we will all be better off and, of course, also the tourism sector. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u251	Thank you, Mrs. Martinez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mrs Hoyo Juliá has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u252	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, the pandemic we are suffering has resulted in an economic crisis which, far from what the Government tells us, has not been symmetrical in all countries. In Spain, half a million jobs have been destroyed, more than two hundred thousand companies have been shut down and, according to the OECD, we are at the back of recovery prospects. Regrettably, the Government is not aware of the reality. That is why we ask the left to open your eyes and be aware of the needs of the Spaniards who, of course, are neither ideological laws nor pardons to criminals. Have you heard the cry of the street, what the hoteliers ask, what the merchants ask? Or because they don't throw stones, they don't loot shops, and they don't burn containers, they don't care? The desperate cry of the hospitality and the shops of real Spain, Spain that sees its businesses, its life projects and its illusions die every day. They see how they have a government that doesn't respond to their needs and that, however, defends rapists. We have all seen Mr Echenique's shameful tweet against the police and defending the violent, but what I don't know is if one day we'll see a tweet written by him defending the needs of the sectors that are worst going on right now. He has not been informed that there are concentrations almost every day of hoteliers, merchants, tradesmen, night-time entrepreneurs, travel agents and tourism workers who, in general, continue to wait for the left-wing bench to come up to this rostrum to defend their interests, lower taxes and announce the direct aid they need so much. [[Applauds]] Among government partners there is a lot of competition, but it usually competes on trivial issues. We invite you to compete for an ambitious plan that will solve the real problems of the worst-case sectors. Look, you say youtubers are antipatriots because they're going to Andorra. Instead of criticizing them, what you should do is ask yourself why, why you leave, and you will realize that the real anti-patriots are you, and they are because they impose taxes on self-employed people and entrepreneurs. And I will not be the one who defends tax evasion - that's what his partner Monedero knows much more about - but, of course, what we believe is fundamental is that we have to retain talent and that to retain talent it is fundamental to lower taxes. But you always apply the same recipe, the recipe of the left, the one that always fails: to more unemployment, more taxes and more spending and, always, less freedom. You're arsonists dressed as firefighters. And you know what they're gonna get? They're going to be able to leave Spain like a yard. Those who can leave, will leave; those who cannot leave, will remain, ruined, and the saddest thing is that you will remain so calm in your seat, applying those policies that certainly do not lead us to the economic recovery that we need so much. It is not acceptable for the Government to waste on ministers, advisors, babysitters and public expenditure while the aid to the companies that are most in need at the moment is rejected. It is urgent for the Government to tighten its belt, to do its duties and, of course, not to turn Spain into a fiscal hell. In addition, we start from a vice of origin. The first decisions taken by the Government after the first state of alarm did not work, did not bear fruit, and the real important measures, which had already been called for by the People's Party, such as the ERTE or the SME and autonomous liquidity lines, are not bearing fruit because there is a management disaster in the public administration because of the Government. Ladies and gentlemen, Spain is at the forefront of the European Union in terms of the percentage of GDP earmarked for aid to the productive fabric and fiscal stimulus. That is why we in the People's Party have tabled an amendment which largely proposes that EUR 50 billion should be allocated to companies that need it most because they are suffering from the restrictions imposed by the Government. On the other hand, what we are asking is for European funds to be distributed in a transparent way, without arbitrariness and sectarianism, without party filters, in a transparent way. Thirdly, we believe that it is very important for these European funds to reach the entire national territory, and for that it is essential that the autonomous communities be heard. In conclusion, Madam President, I would like to say that our only objective is to make our productive fabric move forward, to make our companies more competitive and to return to the path of economic recovery and to job creation. These are the recipes we applied when ruling the People's Party in the previous crisis, and those are the recipes that really work. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u253	Thank you very much, Mrs. Hoyo. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor on behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u254	Thank you very much, Madam President. I will support with my vote this motion by the VOX Parliamentary Group, which is very valuable in the face of the dire socio-economic situation resulting from the very long pandemic that is suffering the world and that for the past year has been beating Spain with special virulence, where the catastrophe has been accentuated by the hand of our Government. I have already said this on other occasions in this rostrum, and I repeat: health failure has been compounded by the failure of the government to address the effects of the pandemic on the productive fabric. The International Monetary Fund has placed Spain as the developed country most hit by the COVID-19. The urgent legislative instruments adopted by the Council of Ministers to combat the pandemic have not achieved their purpose in the field of health or economics. The propaganda took precedence over the rigour to announce predictions, and so let's the Spaniards, tow the events and the readjustments in the calendar to reach new deadlines. For the history of the hooligans there are the sanchist proclamations of 'we have defeated the virus' or the announcement of group immunity for next June. The collapse of the Spanish economy in 2020, that of the pandemic - 11%, according to the National Institute of Statistics - has tried to be countered with public support that has amounted to only 3.7% of our GDP. What has been done in other European countries? 7.7% in Germany, 4.6% in France and 4.5% in Italy. It should be added that, in my view, unconstitutional, disproportionate means have been used which have affected inequality, because there are workers who have been delayed from public solidarity and protection. Why did the government not speak of self-employed, merchants, hoteliers or liberal professionals? Why have all these guilds or individual persons been worse off for the Executive? Why not imitate in Spain, as this motion rightly points out, the measures that have been taken in other countries, indemnifying companies and self-employed people affected by the employment paralysis imposed by the Government and to those who never or barely get the measures and the aid? It continues to be a priority to avoid destruction so as not to have to undertake reconstruction. With the coronavirus, the Sánchez government has always been late. It has taken almost a year for him to discover, after the biggest fall in GDP in the fourth quarter of the European Union as a whole, that progress must be made towards direct aid. The Minister of Labour admitted it here last Thursday and this morning Mr. Sánchez cut it out of Chilean. I'm sure they're out of the game and they'll cancel the play. It was not done before, even though it was claimed by the affected parties, nor did it imitate the measures that other Community partners had already taken to mitigate productive and commercial damage. And now to wait for the post-ERTE phase, as you have been called. Ladies and gentlemen, as Mrs Rueda Perelló has just pointed out, the health emergency is conditioning daily life, disrupting work activity and paralyzing the modus vivendi, the way many Spaniards make a living. Last week we celebrated a Committee on Industry, Tourism and Trade where the parliamentary initiatives of various opposition groups were rejected to urge the Government to provide aid to different economic subsectors that are in a suffocating and distressing situation because they cannot develop their work as a follow-up to the measures taken by the Government, autonomous communities and municipalities. Those who did not pass through that ring were the subject of ruthless attacks by the squalid left. With forced inactivity and without direct aid, many businesses and self-employed people will no longer survive, because the ones announced today are too late. Some official indicators are unequivocal and reflect battling for both businesses and self-employed workers. Up-to-date unemployment data are frightening and youth unemployment is trembling. Always, but even more so in a situation of such extraordinary gravity that we share with the rest of the world, it is appropriate to look at what other countries like Spain are doing, from what they do well, hence it is particularly valuable that they are known - as detailed in the explanatory statement of this parliamentary initiative in its second paragraph and has already explained the spokesman for VOX - the measures that other countries are implementing to facilitate aid to their businesses and self-employed. I will therefore support the content of this motion, even more so if a compromise amendment is to be drafted with the input of other parliamentary groups, which is better than better to urge the Government, although I am very afraid that we will remain in the attempt. We'll have to keep going. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u255	Thank you very much, Mr Martínez Oblanca. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Barandiaran Benito has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u256	Good afternoon, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. I have to admit that when I read the title of this motion I could not help but outline almost one smile: compensation for prohibiting the Spanish from working. Really, when I saw it, it gave me a strange feeling. I started reading it and suddenly I saw that I had a multitude of measures as original as distributing funds, grants, grants... There was absolutely everything. And, of course, I couldn't help but remember a movie gem, that movie by the Marx Brothers One night in the opera and, above all, that scene from the Marx Brothers' cabin, where, in fact, everything was possible! Let us see, if it is a matter of lost contributions, such as Italy, that the florist should pass; if it is a matter of tax exemptions, such as France, that waiters should enter; if it is a matter of direct payments, such as Germany, there is room for the plumber, and if it is a matter of tax compensation, such as Denmark, of course, there is already the plumber's assistant, the manicure and whatever it takes. But, ladies and gentlemen, we are not in Italy, nor in Germany, nor in France, nor in Denmark, nor in Norway, nor in any State that is not composed, as is this, where the few serious, very few serious municipalities, autonomous communities, Government of State, this Parliament and other Parliaments have also taken decisions; decisions to support their social and business fabric in the form of direct aid, subsidies, exemptions and - go on - pretending to use European funds that, according to their own motion, have other priorities; they have priorities that are gender ideology and sustainability, that do not give either food or provide liquidity. Curious. They'll have something, of course. That, in the face of all that - and I had no doubt -, with what I found myself with some right saviors, they were saviors; well, rather, they are saviors; they are saviors whose discourse is common in many places, countries and environments, those who speak of politicians and politics in third person, as if the work in this and other Chambers, State governments and other governments were of worse condition and more innoble than those of the anointed procesors of patriotic values and those who confront each other, the good with the bad, the patriots with the traitors and issuing meats of good and bad who, of course, already know what they lead to. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, it has never been, especially in a circumstance such as this, as pressing union, the real union of the Legislature and the Executive, but around effective measures that attempt to respond to many of these concerns of state institutions, autonomous communities, municipalities, state government, collaborating so that the measures are effective wherever each administration gets better to its citizens. Parties too, around consensual reconstruction programmes and not anointed proposals for protagonism, as we are seeing. But, above all, social, ladies and gentlemen, around behaviors aimed at preventing the spread of the pandemic instead of exalting or defending attitudes from which, at least, one can only say that they are incivic in these times of desolation. But none of that, absolutely none of that can be deduced from anyone who understands that what has been expropriated is the right to work, from whom he affirms that the only thing that is done is to impose restrictions and limitations, from whom he focuses his speech around the most punished families such as hospitality, adorning it with opportunistic promises, from whom he sustains his speech in exceptional judicial pronouncements that neither common sense nor the judiciary itself defend. And all with the firm intention of promoting political and social schism, of abounding in fragmentation, raising to unacceptable extremes the scenario of radicalization of political formations, which is the main reason that prevents understanding; of riding his discourse on demagogy and populism, which are and have always been the main breeding ground of totalitarianism. We will vote no to this initiative because it hides the easy speech that feeds the social confrontation and, moreover, because it feeds fascism. The Basque Group, the PNV, will always be faced with this issue, against totalitarianism, against fascism and against democratic involution. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u257	Thank you, Mr. Barandiaran. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Gómez-Reino Varela has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in common.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u258	Thank you, Mr. President. Today, we are discussing a motion that follows an inquiry by the VOX Parliamentary Group, a parliamentary group that strives and strives daily to tell us that it is very far-right and that it is very Spanish, and I think that is the only way to understand the title they have put to this motion, as they have already told the parliamentary groups. A title in which I'm going to stop initially. He says: To compensate all Spaniards. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u259	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u260	It does not say to all workers, it does not say to all self-employed, it does not say to all small and medium-sized entrepreneurs; no, it says: to all Spaniards who have been forbidden to work. And it draws attention to the fact that the ladies and gentlemen of VOX obviously know perfectly well that there is no legislation on the Belgian labour market here or no legislation on the Andorran labour market. And it draws attention because, in fact, what you implicitly want to do with this title, your ladies and gentlemen of VOX, is to bring to debate something that has appeared in Spanish politics since you are here, which is basically xenophobia. Because what implicitly means with this title is that for you an Ecuadorian worker who has been working here for many years, creating, generating wealth and building with us this country, a Senegalese worker, a Moroccan worker, with this title and obviously with its policies, is not a citizen of law and, of course, we are not going to go there, ladies and gentlemen of VOX. [[Applauds]] And, look, you represent - and we have told you very calmly, but we have already told you in the Commission - at worst, no longer from that right, but from that extreme right very beautiful milana, very national shotgun, very brave with those at home, but then very servile with the powerful countries that we have in our environment. And, look, I'm going to give you a data, in the last years 1 out of 3 euros admitted to this country was thanks to immigrant workers, to immigrant workers who, in addition, are the ones who make the jobs worse paid, more precarious, more intermittent and more difficult, gentlemen of VOX. [[Applauds]] And, therefore - and I finish with the title of the motion - I will ask you, once and for all, to stop extending or trying to extend the virus of xenophobia in this House and in this society. This motion is a bulo motion and a lie motion, like everything you do, because what you do is political lie. Because how can we come here to say that we must compensate the Spanish workers after weeks and months of voting once after months against each and every one of the royal decrees, against each and every one of the rules of this government that are dedicated precisely to saving our companies and our workers? [[Applauds]] Look, you have voted against Royal Decree 22/2020, which regulates the creation of the COVID fund, EUR 16 billion for workers and businesses; you have voted against Royal Decree 35/2020, urgent measures to support the tourism, hospitality and trade sector, EUR 4 billion, and you have voted against Royal Decree 2/2021, strengthening the ERTE, gentlemen of VOX. How can you come here to say that workers have to be compensated and voted against a tool like ERTE? [[Applauds]] Look, our parliamentary group, a few weeks ago, proposed a battery of measures to complement the massive mobilization of public resources that this Government has made with the support of the plurality of progressive groups in this House. It is a package of measures with a fund of €8 billion for SMEs and self-employed, ultimately a fund of resources for hospitality, for small business and for those who are suffering more right now. That is why we must welcome the fact that today the President, Mr Sánchez, has come and said that, of course, more than 11 billion public resources will be mobilised for these sectors, which are the most affected. But do you know what's going on and what's the problem, gentlemen of VOX? That you, when that is brought here to debate, what you are going to do is noise, noise and more noise, and then what are you going to vote for? You're going to vote no. I'm done, ladies and gentlemen. Today is 24 February, the day of Rosalía de Castro in Galicia, Galician national poet, a rebellious woman who was ahead of her time, a fundamental writer of Galician literature and who also wrote about our people and about emigration, and so, as today, we will recommend that you read Rosalía de Castro. Thank you very much and good afternoon. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u261	Thank you very much, Mr. Gómez-Reino. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, Mrs Baños Ruiz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u262	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I rise to this rostrum this afternoon to defend a motion of the extreme right as unreal as confusing. Whoever reads the motion will think about what the title has to do with development. Confusion as a way of doing politics confuses everything: gender-based violence with the rest of violence, homophobia with freedom or patriotism with homogeneity. They only talk about ideology when it comes to promoting hatred, but their proposals serve nothing to safeguard our productive fabric. In the region of Murcia, without going any further, you condition the approval of regional budgets of the People's Party and citizens to the parental veto, in the meantime, the hoteliers are having a bad time and all you do is promote censorship and hatred, and this, as it became clear yesterday, has no place in democracy. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen of VOX, you have brought here today a motion - and I think that has already been said by the rest of the political groups - of thirteen folios, in which you report measures put in place in other countries, but obviously those that have developed here, although I will remind you of them with a report from the National Commission on Markets and Competition based on data from the Bank of Spain. While Germany, France or Italy have invested between 1 and 4 % of their GDP, in Spain 6 % has been invested. The Government of Spain is the government that has invested the most in its GDP in Europe. In addition, this morning the President of the Government announced that in the coming weeks a new package of EUR 11 billion will be approved for aid to companies, businesses, self-employed and hotels; EUR 11 billion to guarantee their solvency and investments. But, of course, what's the problem with all this? That the B side of the role of the national government is playing it in those autonomys where you are supporting the autonomous governments. In the Region of Murcia, yesterday, the president of the community announced a package of measures of 37 million euros for the sector, and one thinks: Well, good!, but, of course, then a scratch on the news and it turns out that of those 37 million, 10 are loans that have requested only 57 companies and the other 12 are financed by the government of Pedro Sánchez, but everyone shuts that up. Today, however, the People's Party, ladies and gentlemen, is presenting an amendment to add to its motion by saying that more money is still being given by the Government to the autonomous communities than to the local entities. You, ladies and gentlemen, lie and deceive citizens about the origin of the funds because in the communities where you have competence in trade and tourism, or do little, or do absolutely nothing, as is the case with Madrid. Ladies and gentlemen of VOX, in view of the lack of overall data I have given you on GDP investment, I will detail a number of specific measures, because, despite the fact that you have all voted against, these measures exist. They have voted against the flexibility of the ERTE, against the extraordinary termination benefit for the self-employed, against extending the deficiencies of the ICOs, in short, against protecting the work of millions of Spanish workers, against protecting those SMEs and those self-employed who you now say defend. Their policies and the wear and tear of the institutions will serve to wear down the People's Party and citizens and to take advantage of their votes, but this party that I represent and this government will neither deceive us nor lose us. [[Applauds]] We have very clear priorities and I will detail them to you. The first is to control the pandemic. Vaccines have become lifesavers for the economy. What a coincidence, vaccines, science and health have a direct impact on the economy. Spain is among the first three countries with the highest number of people with the two doses put in. Solidarity as an example that managing health is managing the economy, and that the Government of Spain, together with the autonomous communities, is managing it in an excellent way, except in those, unfortunately, like mine, where there are certain VIP lists for senior positions related to the People's Party. The second priority is to protect our productive fabric and avoid the structural impact on our economy and our society, ultimately leaving no one behind, and so far we have mobilised more than EUR 40.8 billion in direct aid. The State pays regularly and regularly the payroll of thousands of workers in this country through ERTS, pays the extraordinary benefit for self-employed, hoteliers, travel agencies and discretionary transport. And the last priority will be the implementation of the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan. And look at your PP partners working hard to ensure that European subsidies did not come! Next Generation funds will mark one before and one after in this country in digital transformation, equality, ecology and green industry, and will do so despite you and your PP partners.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u263	Mrs. Baños, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u264	I'm finishing up, President.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u265	No, it has to end now.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u266	Ladies and gentlemen of VOX, they have already done so with the general budgets. To work, not to sow hatred, as the citizens of this country ask, and as this Government and this parliamentary group are doing. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u267	Thank you very much, Mrs. Baños. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Rueda, do you accept some of the amendments tabled by your group?
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u268	Yes, we accept them. Please...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u269	Thank you very much. The motion will be voted on in accordance with the amendments tabled. [[Mrs Rueda Perelló asks for the floor]] Mrs. Rueda, I'm not giving you the floor. Thank you very much. - OF THE CITIZEN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, TO GUARANTEE THE EXERCISE OF THE PERIOD IN FREEDOM AND WITHOUT POLITICAL INJURY. [[File number 173/000053]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u270	We continue with the motion resulting from urgent questioning of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group to ensure the exercise of journalism in freedom and without political interference. For the author group of the initiative and for the defence of the motion, Mr. Díaz Gómez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u271	Thank you, President. I would like to ask the parliamentary groups not to channel thick terms when disqualifying other parliamentary groups, because they insult not only the parliamentary group, but those who have suffered these really thick terms. Today we present this motion in defence of freedom of the press with some concern. Last week we saw how Mr. Iglesias in the interpellation expressed his opinion on the need for controls on the media in Spain. A Vice-President of the Government at the Congress Hall said this in an inquiry to the Government, that is, he spoke on behalf of the Government. Nor has anyone from the Government called Mr. Iglesias to order to point out journalists since the press conference of the Council of Ministers. I no longer say that someone from the PSOE criticizes that We can mount supervitaminated blogs to discredit the media and point out journalists or judges, which is what their partners in We can do, but they do stand on the wall and say that it is enough for Pablo Iglesias when he does it on behalf of the government. Do the Socialists in this House agree with the need to establish controls on the media? This is what we are voting on today. It's simple. Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, do you think that the media should be controlled by political power? If you believe that, vote no to this motion. Do you think that journalism should be allowed to be freed? If you believe that, you vote yes to this motion. You don't believe anything, because everything is relative and gaseous? So abstain from voting on this motion. One of the biggest problems that can arise in a democracy is that politicians confuse themselves with democracy. This incarnation is common in populisms, especially. If you mess with the politician, you're attacking the bases of the system or all its voters. Therefore, if you are a journalist or a judge who wants to inform or judge about one of these self-proclaimed incarnations of democracy, you will find some obstacles. The statements to the press are common in populisms, and I have already condemned this. But the matter takes on a much more dangerous new dimension when it comes to the Spanish Government. The press narrates facts when it reports. Whoever wants to eliminate the press claims that the facts are not counted. They want to be them, the populists, who make a lethal replacement for democracy, that of the facts by the story. Can you imagine Podemos reporting the imputation of Currency? Can you imagine Podemos reporting the false accusation of sexual harassment to the lawyer who points out his irregularities? Can you imagine Podemos reporting from his blog about what happens to Neurona? No, no, It is not by chance that both the press and justice are at the goal of the populists, and not only in Spain, but where populism is implanted. The press tells the facts, the judges judge the facts, and populism the facts, the evidence feels like the gremlins the sunlight. The ideal moment for populism will be when they can ask quietly: Who are you going to believe, this journalist or my blog, this newspaper or what I sent you back for WhatsApp?'. It is about covering and eliminating those who can bring to light the shortcomings and corruptions and contradictions of populism. This, of course, is serious. What you're looking for is that populisms can camp wide, without controls of any kind. But it is even more serious, because, if the populist parties of Spain succeed in eliminating the confidence of citizens in journalism, citizens will be deprived of a right enshrined in the Constitution, the right to information, which will be replaced by something else, subjection to propaganda, be they, the populist parties, who tell you the reality through blogs, digital created by the parties themselves or chains of WhatsApp or Telegram, so that the citizen can no longer contrast what they send him, leaving him to the mercy of those who want to blind him to reality. It can also be manipulated from the rostrum of Congress, and I give you a very recent example. In last week's debate, Mr. Iglesias stated that in the newspaper El Mundo, after a search he had made, he found the word Venezuela 17,387 times, compared to 2825 in which he found the word eviction. That same night I went to the search engine with a suspicion I saw confirmed: if you compare the same with the same, the figures are very similar. That is, I looked for Mexico, and I had 34,216 mentions on the El Mundo website, compared to 17,387 in Venezuela; I looked for France, and I had 81,060 mentions, compared to 17,000 in Venezuela. Churches watch the newspaper, but who watches Churches? Who watches the watchmen? They intend to leave the Spanish defenseless in the face of the bombardment of fake news. The facts killed by the story, and this is called post truth, and it's very dangerous. Abandoning knowledge of the facts is abandoning freedom. Populism wants us to give up reality and all put ourselves in the hands of those who are more skilled with technology and propaganda. An arms race of lying, a Hobbesian trap, is initiated, because the truth will be very ineffective in the face of lying and will enter a truly dangerous circle. Every totalitarian movement throughout history the first thing he did was load the free press. Yesterday we celebrated the 40th anniversary of the attempted coup d'état of 23-F. What was the first thing the thugs assaulted? Radio Nacional de España y Radiotelevisión Española. The only control that must be exercised over the press is that of the citizenry. And if we are to make changes in this House, it must not be to control it, but to guarantee its freedom and avoid political interference. Look, my party's leitmotiv is freedom. The press is a means for free citizens. Uncontrolled propaganda is a chain to the ankle of critical thinking. There is no freedom without access to the truth, as it is written in the most important book in history: 'And you will know the truth and the truth will make you free'. Anyone who wants to eradicate through lies, through the punctuation of reality, by imposing propaganda and a narrative on the facts and, therefore, by diminishing the freedom of the Spaniards in this particular facet or in any of the others, will have a problem, and is called Citizens. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u272	Thank you very much, Mr. Díaz. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] In defence of the amendments put forward by your groups, Mr Mena Arca intervenes first of all, by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in common.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u273	Thank you, President. I must admit to you, Mr Díaz, that this time I was expecting a constructive Citizens' motion, a motion that raises proposals for improvement, because it seemed that you in the last plenary were certainly concerned about the freedom of the press in our country. But again I see that for his part everything is postureum. What you were basically looking for was to hit the United Nations. We can, especially the second vice president, to also hit the coalition government and, above all, the policies we are implementing from the government. And I recommend one thing to you, Mr. Member: spend less time searching for words on Google and working on the motions more, because the one you have presented to us today is nowhere to take it. [[Applauds]] It is clear that every democracy has room for improvement, and in that we should be occupying all the Members of this House. We do so when it comes to the fundamental powers of the state, and the media power also has an impact on the democratic quality of our societies. I must tell you, Mr Díaz, that this is nothing more than a stone badly thrown at the Government by your group, badly thrown because you intend to insinuate that this coalition government does not respect press freedom. And I'm just going to point out two elements that disassemble that fallacy. The first is that Spain remains in the twenty-ninth place in the world press freedom classification, according to the annual report prepared by Reporters Without Borders and the media plurality monitor. This report does point to a danger - and I recommend that you go to Google tonight and look for it - which has to do with freedom of the press in Spain. The report literally says: The worrying penetration of the extreme right-wing VOX party into Spanish politics..., and talks about the lynching of journalists on social networks by this formation, even here have come to deny access to their party acts. And that far right, Mr. Díaz, has a last name, and the last name is Citizens, because, thanks to that far right, you rule in Madrid, Andalusia and Murcia. [[Applauds]] It is your partners, Mr. Díaz, who endanger freedom of the press. But I'm not surprised, because whoever rejects the ethical code of this Congress directly rejects ethics, and that's what happens to the far right in this Congress of Deputies. Secondly, what can endanger freedom of the press in Spain, Mr Díaz? Four things: job insecurity, pressures, mercantilization and the pursuit of the audience through the show. It is not said by the Group of the United Nations Podemos, the Federation of Journalists' Associations of Spain has said so. It is clear that the precariousness of wages and working conditions affects journalism today and makes it one of the most unstable professions. We must also add to that the internal pressures of media directions, often in the hands of media oligopolies, and, on that, you have not made a single proposal in this motion. And they also talk about article 20 of the Constitution, but they cheat. Do you know what Article 20 of the Constitution says, Mr. Díaz? He says that the right to communicate or receive information is recognized and protected by any means of communication - true, Mr Díaz, true information, which you often hide - and that is incompatible with using certain private media to stigmatise, signal and industrially fabricate fake news against a political force that is legitimately in government because it has been decided by more than three million Spaniards. And I'll give you an example. We have seen numerous front pages with very scandalous headlines announcing investigations to Podemos, and then, when each and every one of those investigations are archived - up to sixteen, Mr. Díaz - we have to go to the last page and sometimes to the faith of wrongs in order to be able to find out. What's there, Mr. Díaz? Is there freedom of the press or will to weaken the policies that we can and that the coalition government is deploying? You will agree - and it is over, President - that there are large oligopolistic structures of concentration of interests which citizens do not know to which powers they respond. We have made an amendment, you are not going to accept it, which makes it clear that what you wanted to come here was not to defend freedom of the press, but to throw a new stone at the coalition government. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u274	Thank you, Mr. Mena. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. Guille. For the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Sánchez del Real has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u275	Thank you. Good afternoon. It's been a good afternoon to talk about journalism and freedom of expression, isn't it? You're fresh. We're a little oblivious of listening so far to the far right. If we had taken a shot every time they said far right today, we'd all be dancing here the conga. Mr. Díaz, first, your motion. You tell the government: You obey the law. Well, come on, you keep the law. We have tabled a number of amendments - which is what I will detail - to go a little further. If you think so, let's talk about journalism and freedom of the press. I am going to speak as a Member - you know this - but I am also going to speak from two other points. [[shows a card]] This is one of the many press cards I've had throughout my professional career, and this is my DNI - I've also had a few, I'm already an age -. [[shows a second card]] [[shows a third card]] I'm going to talk about journalism, the press, and I'm going to talk about freedom of expression. That is managed with these two documents. And, eye, one can have both and think different things on one side and the other. Many Spaniards want to know why, about their freedom of expression, what they say in their DNI, they have fewer rights than those who have, for example, a press card. Why? It's one of the fundamental questions. Should Journalism Be Defended? Yeah. Do we have to defend everything that looks like journalism? No, because confusing your press - and I'm going to start pointing out who are the real owners of the press in this country, the public press and the subsidized press - with independent journalism is the biggest mistake you could have made, Mr. Díaz. There is a false journalism, you put on as you put on, there is false journalism in this country, and you have to distinguish between what is information, opinion and propaganda, and those who mix those three things are cheating on the Spaniards and they are cheating on us all, and especially they do it with public money. That's terrible. [[Applauds]] I'm going to give you an example of false journalism. In '98, all the American press against Spain. That was journalism. You defend journalism. Thousands of Spaniards and thousands of Americans died because of false journalism. But there is another false journalism still much worse, and goodness leads you to say some things that are barbaric. The fake ETA journalism. There is here a Member whose name I do not want to remember from whose means families were pointed out as yours, Mr Díaz, and mine, Mr Díaz, as objectives of the ETA. Was that journalism? No, that was terrorism disguised as journalism. [[Applauds]] And worst of all, what are we gonna believe? Do you defend all journalism? Do you also defend journalism, the journalism of Peter and Paul, paid for by all Spaniards? Is this journalism? [[Shows a photocopy with the newspaper name]] No, gentlemen, this is not journalism. And now they're gonna tell me I'm breaking the mantra. When the Dreyfus case in France, there was a gentleman who stood up and wrote the J'accuse. Mr. Zola was going against journalism and the mantra that all journalism is good? No, he did real journalism. But going down to the real world, in between media, fattened with advertising campaigns of this government, advertising campaigns of each and every autonomous group. Money, money, money, more money, more money, more public media. Does it really exist in Spain free press? No, there is a lot of false journalism, and what we have to go to is true freedom of the press, that there are independent media that make the press free, without the influence of all of you, without the need for your advertising campaigns and, of course, without public money. And now, when you are losing control, let us talk about freedom of the press, which is what I want to devote the last part of my speech to. Remember, this is what we all play, not just those with press cards. [[Show a card]] To freedom of expression we play all Spaniards, because we have that right. [[shows a DNI]] And people no longer believe their television news, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament, Members of the European Parliament, because they remember that we all play this game. When there is really free press, regardless of whether you earn your life with the sweat of your forehead, without public subsidies, then you say what you want from us, from you or from the president or from the vice president. It is also true that at all times we can say what we think of them. Here is a problem, here are three options: do as in Casablanca, as those who said: Let's play, and play those who played - the PP has played, the PSOE has played -; then are those who say: Horror, here you play!, as Captain Renault - that's you, Citizens, and it was Podemos -, and, finally, it's the only one of the honorable options, that is: gentlemen, here you play and you have to end this game of tahures, and here you have to have a free press and freedom of expression. [[Applauds]] I've told him as a Spanishman and a free citizen. The press cannot be above the citizens, but neither can the citizens be above the press. We all play or this won't be freedom. As you say you have to believe everything a journalist says, I have told him as a journalist. [[Show a card]] The truth is the truth, whoever says it, journalist or citizen, and that's what we play, freedom, really. Thank you very much. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European ……]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u276	Thank you, Mr. Sanchez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] The Joint Parliamentary Group has the floor in the first place, Mr García Adanero.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u277	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. The truth is that it seems a lie that in a country of the European Union we have to deal in the Congress of Deputies with the fulfillment of a clear article that appears in all the democratic constitutions of the world, freedom of the press. And that must be done because now it turns out that we have a government that is allergic to freedom. It is a Government that understands freedom of expression only if it says what the Government wants to say. It is a government that understands that only the newspapers that the government wants to read can be read, and Podemos' spokesman has said this today. He said: We have detected that there are newspapers that mess with us, and then they no longer talk about us when we want them to talk about other things about us. So, what is the solution? Let us close these newspapers and let only those that the government says are controlled. And it is also said: We will always be in government. So, if you say that you are always going to be in the government and that you can only read what the government says and that there is only freedom of expression when the government says so, that is no longer a democracy, that is a dictatorship. That already becomes dictatorship, we move from democracy to dictatorship. [[Applauds]] And they say it, they don't blush. We're all here because we've been chosen. So what fear is there of freedom? Let each one read what he wants, let each one write what he thinks is convenient. If he writes something that is not due and is likely to be prosecuted in the courts, let him be persecuted. But do you have a problem with someone turning on TV, picking up a newspaper or listening to a certain radio? Those who write, broadcast on the radio or talk on television will be won, whether they have customers or not, as happens to us. They'll vote for us or they won't vote for us, but let the people go free. Do not be afraid of freedom, that freedom is fundamental; freedom without being threatened, freedom of truth. True freedom must never be afraid of it. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u278	Thank you so much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the same parliamentary group, I have the floor, Mrs Oramas González-Moro.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u279	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the problem, since this country has fallen into the hands of the radicals on the one hand and on the other, is that we have lost tolerance. The mainstream media are companies and journalists have their own ideas and preferences. Freedom of information and opinion is that citizens have the right and the opportunity to choose who they want to read, who they want to hear and who they want to see. That's what Mr. Churches wants to end with. Mr. Iglesias is a product of the media and lived with them a romance, until they began to tell their contradictions. The primary obligation of dictatorships, radical left revolutions or military coups is to exterminate the free media. Governments prefer propaganda to information, and the duty of any Spanish deputy is to fight with nails and teeth so that no one tries to turn off one of those hundreds of lights that light our democracy every day. From the largest television channel to the smallest radio in a town, that is the true voice of the citizens, and we, who represent them, must fight for no one to take it away. He said a famous North American journalist that you can have free press or you can have responsible press. If he is free, there will always be someone who is irresponsible; but if laws are made and barriers are put in place to make him responsible, then he will no longer be free. In Spain we have to choose for freedom. I am not in favour of condemning anyone for expressing their views and ideas. Who insults and offends to answer to the judges of their statements. Freedom is also for journalists and the media, who monitor democracy and are the system of early warning of authoritarians. Here there are leaders and parties who only defend the freedom of their own, that of those who express their own ideas and defend their own convictions. Those too must be allowed to be free, even if they are sectarians, because the difference between them and the Democrats is that we believe in tolerance. I'm done, Madam President. We have to make hate and sectarianism happen in this country, we have to give society the freedom of opinion without anger and we have to do so with our example, banishing the violent and the radicals. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u280	Thank you very much, Mrs Oramas. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Aizpurua Arzallus has the floor for the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u281	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. Pick it up on. Ladies and gentlemen of Citizens, do you know what this motion is? A trap, a political trap that, instead of playing with perspective, plays with other kinds of effects: brevity, general statements with which anyone should agree and three short lines of proposals in which tells more what is hidden than what is said. Tramps are very useful to play the clock, to say what it is not, but they are useless to build politics, they are useless to rigor and seriousness. Because what happens is that the defence of freedom of the press, of freedom of expression is not such when it is reduced to specific groups. Look, I'm afraid many ladies in this Chamber care about freedom of expression depending on who it affects, and freedom of expression is either for all citizens or not. Either there is freedom of expression for all, or there is no freedom of expression. In the Spanish State, according to a body as accredited as Amnesty International, freedom of expression has suffered a serious setback since 2015, when the People's Party imposed the law on the law and the reform of the Penal Code. It is a law - and I quote Amnesty International textually - that is plagued by legal inaccuracies that favor police discretion, provoke informational self-censorship and citizen demobilization. And yes, ladies and gentlemen, freedom of expression also covers the freedoms of opinion, information and the press, and I remind you that newspapers, radio stations and magazines have been closed in the last quarter of the century. Yes, the Egin newspaper was closed, in fact, where I was working, and his board and management were imprisoned, and then that closure was declared by illegal sentence. It also closed without the possibility of reopening. And it also happened later with the Egunkaria case. This weekend it was precisely eighteen years since the closure of the newspaper, whose managers were arrested and tortured. In 2010, the closure of Egunkaria was also proved illegal. Let us therefore speak of freedom of expression and democracy in this State in which a democratically elected president is also disqualified from placing a banner. Let us talk about freedom of expression in this state where independenceists or immigrants, women can be attacked, denounced, insulted, and only those who criticize the monarchy, the Church or the security forces are persecuted, condemned or imprisoned: tweeters, artists, opinionators, politicians, singers, puppeteers, feminists. I remind you that the locks to freedom of expression in this state reach the prestigious Fair of Arc. It is this state in which, day and day, there are also propagating loudspeakers and comments about unaccompanied minors-bulos that promote xenophobic and violent actions against this defenseless collective - or in which nostalgic Nazism and Francoism manifest themselves publicly with absolute naturality. And this, unfortunately, leads us to a ferocious paradox, is it persecuted by who says it or by what it says it? Freemuse is an NGO that works as a consultant for the United Nations. There have been references to the report he made, which places this State as the country of the world with the largest number of artists charged with issues relating to freedom of expression, exactly fourteen. Do you also remember that there are exiled artists? Let's talk about this double measuring rod and don't cheat. Ladies and gentlemen of citizens, if you really are in favour of freedom of expression, do it seriously and start by demanding the repeal of the law. Amend the Criminal Code to deal with crimes of expression. Otherwise, it will be that what you really think coincides more with that well-known phrase that utters a certain English humor: You have the right to express everything you are allowed to say. I end with a quote from Noam Chomsky that I think is right and right: 'If you believe in freedom of expression, then you believe in the freedom of those views that disgust you'. That's freedom of speech and everything else. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u282	Thank you very much, Mrs. Aizpurua. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u283	Thank you very much, President. It presents Citizens an initiative in which the Government is urged to guarantee the exercise of journalism in freedom and without political influence, and this on the occasion of various demonstrations, according to us, of the second vice president in which he criticized how certain journalists exercised their profession by informing them of certain facts concerning them - like Podemos - and also in which he criticized the behavior of certain agents of the audiovisual and publishing industry. He understood the parliamentary group that was the author of the initiative that the second vice-president put democracy at risk, since they covered up these statements and criticisms in a spirit of control of the social media and the professionals involved in them, and therefore restricted their freedom of expression and information. They are, in his view, an attack on freedom from journalism. However, ladies and gentlemen, this statement of principle, which is so dogmatic, cannot be shared because it implies denying the essence of democracy itself, which is a plurality of opinions and contrast between them, even on its own how a fact has been referred to has been biased or unprofessional. On the other hand, and from a legal point of view of fundamental rights, what is advocated in the initiative is as much as arguing that the right to freedom of expression, opinions and the right to freely communicate truthful information are unlimited rights, when we know that there is no unlimited right since every right enters into dialogue with others, self-limiting respectively; these, in particular, those of freedom of information and freedom of expression, with the opinion of those who do not share how they have been exercised by others. Of this contrast of views, or of how any fact is exposed or required, there is no one or anything excluded or exempted in a full democracy. Or can it be said that the decision of any power of the State cannot be criticized? Or can a court decision not be critically assessed? Or any of this House or the government? Or is a business decision, if it were the audiovisual or publishing industry, not valueable for this fact in itself? And an editorial article that reflects the opinion of a media outlet on a specific issue, too? Or information? Or an opinion article? What reason, in a full democracy - we would have to ask ourselves - can be given so that a media and its professionals cannot be critically assessed by even some member of the Government, when it is not only that they can be criticized or valued but that they can also be brought before the courts. To support the opposite we believe that it would be corrosive to the same idea of democracy. What is quite different is the way in which this criticism is exercised, which, in our view, if exercised by a member of the Government, must be extremely exceptional and exquisite, because it always puts in political and reputational question the same institution to which it is a party, by turning the Government into a pimpampum of those who are regarded as unjustly or negatively valued or even attacked, as it happens in a flagrant way in the specific case that we are dealing with and which I would not say that it manifests itself in an inconclusive way, for we already know, ladies and gentlemen, that in a society with different interests, even sometimes opposed, which generates an action, which in turn generates a reaction at least identical and in the opposite direction. That is precisely the way that an advanced democracy has to adjust the freedom of expression of each other, allowing citizens to make their decisions. I'll finish it, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall abstain. Not one has the skin so thin that we support his initiative or the bellicose tone of the other deserves our support in the form of rejection of the motion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u284	Thank you very much, Mr. Legarda. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. Guille. Mr Boadella Esteve has the floor for the Plural Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u285	Good night, thank you very much, President. I believe that, reading this item on the agenda, there are two serious scenarios. One is serious because of his prior history. Undoubtedly it is true, journalists have been targeted, individual statements have been made or communicated from the government party, or even individual communications or expressions have been made by government members at the same press conference since La Moncloa. And this is serious, certainly, we will not deny it. But the instrumentalization of this is also serious. Frankly, the text of the motion, - brief and concise - does not cease to be an excuse to bring the water to the proponent's mill. One could apply that any resemblance of the motion to reality is pure coincidence, if one compares the text of the motion with the text of the proposer's intervention. In this scenario we believe that what has happened is, sincerely, a crutches debate, and take it with all due respect. The Podemos crut with the PSOE and the Citizens crut with the PP. In the end, in this crutches duel, there has been a totally unnecessary spectacle. The important thing for us is the freedom of people. People are more free than some think or want to protect them towards that freedom. Therefore, they correctly choose which means to choose and which means not to choose. Consequently, with an almost exquisite text, with a correct text - that Congress urges the Government to scrupulously respect freedom of expression, to comply with the law; it seems that today's session is based on law enforcement, that the Government complies with the law, although it is assumed that the Government must comply with the law - the only thing that is left behind is a more perverse intention than originally proposed. Frankly, returning to the beginning, we believe that the text is acceptable, but that it is reprehensible both the origin that gives rise to this text, the actions and actions that have been made, and the fundamental intention that the motion contains. For this reason, in our case we will abstain. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u286	Thank you very much, Mr Boadella. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Carvalho Dantas has the floor for the Republican Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u287	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Ladies and gentlemen of Citizens, an incomplete motion with traps; any one of this House could vote yes, but very incomplete and a toast to the sun, and, in my view, made ad hoc to attack someone in particular. We defend freedom of expression as a fundamental principle of any democracy. The strong and independent press is fundamental to the exercise of citizenship and the raw material of this force is the professionals of journalism, who must be guaranteed material conditions to continue to devote their time to news and information committed to the truth, without which there is no democracy or transparency. The Citizens' Parliamentary Group brings an instance to the Government of Spain to respect freedom of expression and of the press. Ladies and gentlemen, you defend this motion and want to appear to be the adalid of Spanish democracy. But I think you're very short on this motion, and we'll explain it to you. Article 20 of the Spanish Constitution is very clear and compelling. We always argue that the limits are on human rights and respect for minorities, presented in the General Recommendation on the lines of action in relation to the fight against expressions of incitement to hatred by the European Commission against racism and intolerance, and therefore we want all social, political and economic actors to commit themselves to ensuring freedom of expression, where we can hear things that we do not always like, but which respect all people and do not violate basic rights, which is basically what is allowed here in this Chamber, where racism, misogyny, joyful memories of the Franco dictatorship, sexism, transphobia, xenophobia and Islamophobia are constantly practiced by the extreme right-wing heir of Franco himself. In any case, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to stick to five key points on freedom of expression and information in the Spanish State which are not contained in your motion: First, the truth in the information. The Constitution makes a special impact on freedom of expression, that freedom of expression is to communicate and carries a subjective hue, while freedom of information contains an objective meaning, that is, with the need for subjective veracity, ladies and gentlemen; it does not appear in your motion, has been said before by the Lordship of United Wed; that is, the informant must contrast the information. Second, the Act bits at the media. The Platform in Defense of Freedom of Information warns that 80% of the threats to freedom of expression that the UN points out are applicable to Spain. For eight years, the UN Human Rights Council has issued a special resolution on the security of journalists and incorporated other issues that violate freedom of expression as too broad and vague drafting of laws, strategic trials against journalists. Third, censorship map 2020 of redundancies and incidents on the street, which is also not included in his motion. According to the report - I invite you to read it, very good - of the Observatori Média.cat, last year there were one hundred fifty-five cases collected on the censorship map. Do you want to know what really hinders information plurality? I say to him: ERTE, layoffs, precariousness, the obstacles to asking in online press conferences and to covering acts on the street. All this complicates the work of journalists, who have received threats, intimidation, physical assault and censorship of all kinds. Fourth, Spanish model of media and big capital. I'm not going to extend that I don't have time. Fifth, freedom of expression, for what purpose? So that the extreme right comes to spread hate speech against migrants, trans people, gypsies, praise the Francoist past and the chatter that vomits Islamophobia? Everything. For what freedom of expression? For these media, sexist speeches? I ended up putting into value the work of journalists and alternative media that are not hegemonic, not mainstream, and that work every day informing with a sense of ethics and humanizing their profession.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u288	Mrs. Carvalho, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u289	Journalists such as Omaira Beltrán, Aladdin Azzouzi, Paloma Chen, Youssef Ouled, Taíza Brito, Moha Garehou, Beatrice Duodu, João France, Sara Cuentas and many more. [[A Member of Parliament: Come now!]] Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u290	Thank you very much, Mrs. Carvalho. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Montesinos Aguayo has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u291	Thank you, Madam President. On 17 December I went up to that rostrum to warn of the drift of Pedro Sánchez with regard to freedom of information to denounce that this Government fears the questions of journalists because it does not tell the truth and unfortunately since then everything has gone to worse. Today many focus on Pablo Iglesias when the real focus is on Pedro Sánchez. It is true that Pablo Iglesias wants to control the media and it is also true that he intends to gag critical journalists, increasing, for example, his offensive against them with his website of false or distorted news, pointing out, with names and surnames, journalists to try to gag them and that they do not freely exercise their right to ask and inform, for example, about his network of alleged corruptions that surround him and of which he does not want to explain or assume any kind of responsibility. All this is true, but we already knew it, it has not deceived anyone, its plans were known and is trying to carry them out. There's his terrible hemerotheque: The media must have public control. Pablo Iglesias. The existence of private media attacks freedom of expression. Another one from Mr. Iglesias. He repeated it without going any further last week here at the Congress of Deputies, where, in addition to insulting the media, he warned that what he wants is to impose democratic control elements, he said, on the press. No more or less. The problem is that this brutal attack on the free press comes from the bosom of the government, the key is that Sánchez agrees, even more so, to endorse it with his silence and with his decision to keep it in the Council of Ministers. Some leaders of the Socialist Party when they are told this themselves bend their heads, hide, and I mean you. When the pressure is already enormous, when the pressure is already enormous, there is some minister like Mrs Robles who, among whispers, also some territorial baron, dares to criticize the radical drift of Paul Iglesias. It is not enough, because Churches continue to sit on the blue bench, because Sánchez continues to have a vice president who points out which journalist is good and which journalist is not, what should be reported and what is not and that, I insist, is the real problem. Today the greatest enemy of freedom of information is in the Government with a vice-president who should already be out and with a president who feels very comfortable with the attacks on freedom of expression coming from his own executive. Sánchez has come to create a ministry of truth for his chief of staff to decide what is true and what is not, something we have already appealed to the National Court. He took advantage of the state of alarm to cancel the Transparency Portal, used the CIS to predispose the Spaniards in favor of gazing the media and is allergic to accountability. What I am going to tell you is no joke: with which you are falling, Mr Sánchez has been practically two months since 29 December, without answering the questions of the journalists, the President of the Government! Do they not realize the damage they are doing to democracy, how terrible it is that the government itself is trying to intimidate journalists with a vice president who points out to the media and tries to gag them? [[(A honourable Member: What a barbarity!]] I ask you to rectify, that Pablo Iglesias be stopped and that Pedro Sánchez ask forgiveness and return to respect for freedom of information. [[Applauds]] That is why, today more than ever, we reaffirm our support for all, for all the media without exception, and we censor attacks and vetoing journalists from both sides, also from you, Mr de VOX, or from independentist groups. Free and quality journalism is a basic pillar in democracy, more in times of crisis, and in defense of that freedom they will always count on an ally, who is the People's Party. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applause.- Various Members: Very well!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u292	Thank you, Mr. Montesinos. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Narváez Bandera has the floor for the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u293	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Four decades ago, when democracy was at risk in this Chamber, the Socialist Party's deputies and deputies were already occupying these seats. It has been 143 years since the PSOE, and each and every one of its militants throughout its history, have fought in this country for the defense and respect of the rights and freedoms of all Spaniards and Spaniards. Citizens, the Socialist Party not only defends and scrupulously respects freedom of expression and freedom of the press, but they have retaliated, arrested, murdered and shot for it. [[Applauds]] But, in addition to respecting them, it is when we govern that this country makes the most progress in respecting and achieving new rights and freedoms in order to achieve greater equality and greater social justice. Freedom of expression and freedom of the press are not at risk in our country, moreover, listening to VOX's speech yesterday in this Chamber, denying macho violence and pouring out lies and noises, I would say that he enjoys very good health. And, look, we must fight that, and fortunately this Government has already begun to work to prevent the manipulation of public opinion in matters such as the protection of fundamental rights or the quality of electoral processes. In Spain, they are respected and the Government respects the full autonomy and independence of the media, both public and private. [[Mr. Díaz Gómez makes negative gestures with his hand]] There is a plurality of media, there is more and more digital media, there is a plurality of editorial lines because this Government knows that they are essential to guaranteeing citizens the right to receive truthful, plural and contrasted information, which is what information should be like. I will ask you a question, Mr. Díaz: Do you think that where you govern, you respect freedom of the press and freedom of expression? Do you think that Telemadrid scrupulously respects freedom of the press when its director has to seek protection from the House? Head of Vozpopuli: 'Díaz Ayuso starts maneuvers to try to drown the director general of Telemadrid'. Do you think that in the South Canal, where you, the People's Party and VOX, are governed, you scrupulously respect freedom of the press and the right to information? [[Applauds]] We had in 2020 - and you know it - two blackouts on the South Channel. Two strikes have made the professionals provoked - and I open quotes - by the tiredness, indignation and rage for the constant use that is intended to make of this public medium to try to make it an instrument of power and manipulation. It is the manifesto that the unions launched before the strike asking even for the cessation of the information officer. Since the arrival of the current head of television news, behavior has been observed in form and substance that transcends all professional ethics and violates the most elementary principles of journalism. What do you mean by respecting press freedom and not exercising any control over guardianship and the exercise of journalism? Because, after listening to this, this motion seems pure cynicism to me. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, in politics citizens are calling for more and more coherence. Our spokesman Adriana Lastra said that here this morning. The lack of policy coherence is paid for. The lords of Citizens saw it in November 2019 and they have seen it again on February 14, both Citizens and PP, in Catalonia. The lack of policy coherence is paid at the polls. We will vote against this motion because, as the President said this morning, the Government respects each and every one of the rights and freedoms of our Constitution and our legal system. In addition, both he and the Minister of Justice have already announced that the law will be reformed to improve the right to freedom of expression. In conclusion, I would like to recall, as has already been done here, that while freedom of expression and freedom of the press are fundamental pillars of democracy, rights are not unlimited and are not defended violently. The Andalusians know a lot about this. We celebrate this week, on Sunday, the Day of Andalusia and, when we see those violent images, it is inevitable to compare with our April 4, 1977, when more than a million and a half Andalusians go out peacefully to demand our self-government and full autonomy. And we did it despite the continuing provocations of the right-wing groups. But the right is so, it will always tow in the struggle and in the achievement of rights and freedoms, so stop urging the Government to respect the freedoms to which the Government is already committed. Today I have read an interesting reflection by the philosopher Emilio Lledó: It is obvious that we must have freedom of expression, but what we must have, primarily and primarily, is freedom of thought. What do I care about freedom of expression - he says - if they say nothing but imbeciles? Apply the story. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u294	Thank you, Mrs. Narváez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Díaz, do you accept any of the amendments tabled?
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u295	So much effort has been made by the exegetes of the motion that, in order not to break so much work, we will leave it on its terms. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u296	Thank you very much. The motion shall be put to the vote on its terms.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-24-CD210224.u297	Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to inform you that from 8:15 p.m. to 9:15 p.m. the non-legislative proposals and motions, the opinions on international conventions and the amendment to the whole can be voted on by telematic means. These matters will be voted on in person at the end of Thursday's sitting. As for the vote for the election of members of the Board of Directors of the Spanish Broadcasting Corporation, which will be held in full on a telematic basis, the time limit for the issue of the vote will be from the end of the previous telematic voting period until 11 a.m. on Thursday. The President shall announce the outcome of the votes at the end of the plenary meeting on Thursday. The meeting was suspended until 9 a.m. tomorrow. Good night. It was eight and five minutes of the night.
