ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-18-CD210218.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. The meeting was resumed. We begin with the point corresponding to the validation or repeal of royal decrees-laws. First, the debate on the validation or repeal of Royal Decree-Law 2/2021 of 26 January on the strengthening and consolidation of social measures in defence of employment is a matter for debate. To present the royal decree-law, I have the floor, on behalf of the Government, the Minister of Labour and Social Economy.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-18-CD210218.u2	Good morning. I compare before you to expose the content and scope of Royal Decree-Law 2/2021, strengthening and consolidating social measures in defence of employment. This rule is the consecration of a collective effort. This is a transcendental norm that provides stability to the system of protection from the crisis. It is a rule that reveals the capacity to build consensus and speaks to us about the responsibility of the social partners and the Government, of our joint work. I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to accompany this commitment to the future and to support its parliamentary ratification today. I ask you something else, that we continue to work, side by side, to face the enormous challenges our country faces. All ideas, ladies and gentlemen, are welcome. As Ferralian thinker, jurist and writer Concepción Arenal affirmed, every voice that rises and hears no other that contradicts it becomes a voice of command. Royal Decree-Law 2/2021 gives the 4th Social Agreement in the defence of employment a normative body. It is the last in a series of agreements resulting from this polyphony of voices and commitments, which has allowed the exceptional measures caused by the health crisis to have been adapted and evolving. From the first Royal Decree-Law 8/2020 of 17 March, to which it is submitted today, a considerable number of crisis rules have been promulgated; rules that have placed the effective figure of ERTEs at the centre of an agile response based on the protection of the various situations, collectives and needs. This royal decree-law continues the path initiated to save employment and save the productive sectors, but it also introduces corrections and improvements and sets out guidelines for greater effectiveness in the coverage and control of established benefits and guarantees; effective controls, but at the same time agile so that companies and workers can access protection without assuming bureaucratic burdens. I then go on to explain to you, in four blocks, the main contents of this royal decree. This Royal Decree-Law extends the mechanism of temporary employment regulation files until 31 May this year. This will maintain, regenerate and generate the three manifestations of ERTE set out in Royal Decree-Law 30/2020: first, the ordinary force majeure ERTE and because of ETOP; secondly, the impediment ERTE and, thirdly, the activity delimitation ERTE. [[Rumors]] We establish the scope of each of these three figures, the exemptions in corporate social security contributions and the respective unemployment benefits.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-18-CD210218.u3	I'm sorry to interrupt you, minister. There's a permanent murmur in the room. I beg your silence, please. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-18-CD210218.u4	The ERTE experience has shown us that it is possible to shield ourselves from the destruction of employment, even in the most adverse circumstances. This is the scenario that the present royal decree-law is building and that will incorporate the dynamics of internal flexibility into the normal functioning of our labour market; an alternative to layoffs in the face of the fall in activity, a privileged formula in the previous financial crisis. We have also thought of ERTE as a vehicle to provide training opportunities that allow us to be better prepared and prepared in the face of professional transitions. We want to make progress in the specialization of our companies by taking advantage of the productive stoppage imposed in some sectors by the health circumstances. And that's what we did during the ERTEs with two different and complementary formulas: the training provided by the companies themselves to their staff and the training offered in state calls. As a result of this strategy that commits us and that will be emblematic of our management, more than a million workers during their stay in ERTE have agreed to training actions that are a guarantee of employability and future. ERTE is extended by force majeure and by reason of ETOP until 31 May and the possibility of new ERTE by reason of ETOP and new ERTE by force majeure is maintained for specific sectors, always in order to help where it is most needed. In short, this text gives continuity to what has served us to maintain the shield of protection against the pandemic. This is how the ERTEs are maintained for impediment and activity limitation, specific figures of prolonged health crisis, as I have told you, until next 31 May. The text renews the care system of incentives to maintain previously established employment. That is why the ban on dismissal is established when the appropriate figure was the ERTE, as well as the commitment of activity for six months. For the same reason, the interruption of the maximum duration of temporary contracts is applied and limitations or incompatibilities of the ERTE system are established with overtime, outsourcing, dividend distribution or residence in tax havens. A system of exemptions with greater benefits for smaller companies is also set up to encourage the gradual return to business. It also ensures adequate coverage by means of unemployment benefit for the workers concerned, which is recognised as 70 per cent of the regulatory base, is exempted from the requirement of prior deficiency and is applied to them by the accountant at zero so that the exceptional pandemic situation does not affect the right to subsequent unemployment. Specific unemployment protection is extended and improved for permanent and regular permanent workers and compatibility, without deduction from the unemployment benefit, with part-time work is permitted. Lower rates of exemption are also established. For the same reason, the procedure for moving from one model of ERT to another is simplified. In short, it is a committed and robust rule that provides for adequate guarantees, incentives and coverage within an efficient and flexible system, with the full commitment of the Government and social actors. Title II of Royal Decree-Law 2/2021 deepens the labour protection of self-employed workers, a fundamental collective in the business fabric of our country. This royal decree-law describes a structured map of four termination benefits for self-employed persons. The first modality is the total cessation benefit. It is entitled to a benefit of 50 % of the minimum contribution base, which can be extended by 20 % in the case of a large family, without the obligation to contribute by self-employed persons and by applying a zero-counter in respect of future benefits. The second is the termination benefit compatible with self-employment, which extends its coverage to self-employed persons whose income would have been reduced by more than 50 %. The third modality is a benefit for those self-employed persons of special vulnerability who are unable to access any of the other modalities established. The last of the modalities is that of seasonal workers. It is an extraordinary benefit set out in Article 14 of the Royal Decree-Law 30/2021, and that this Royal Decree extends with a maximum of four months and, in any case, always with the limit of 31 May of this year. The third block of this royal decree is intended to increase the effectiveness in the management of social security measures related to the health crisis. Mechanisms are put in place to facilitate verification of the identity of individuals by non-face-to-face means, as well as to generalize computer-based management systems. Reference is also made to automated administrative procedures within the framework of the Labour and Social Security Inspectorate. The Royal Decree extends the scope of information duties and obligations relating to companies, financial institutions, judicial institutions, mutual societies and autonomous communities, among many others. The fourth and last of the blocks of the royal decree comprises a series of rules of extension or maintenance; precepts that were born at the time with vocation of temporality and expiration period, but that, in view of the circumstances in which the pandemic has developed, it is still necessary to keep in our order. This is the case for the benefits and subsidies for the cultural sector of Royal Decree-Law 32/2020, which incorporates as a new maximum reference period on 31 May of the current year. This is also the case with the extraordinary extension of leases or the possibility of applying for temporary and extraordinary deferral of rent payments on leases in a situation of economic vulnerability. We also find matters to be extended by the end-of-year effect. This is the case for the types of contributions by RETA workers, who had established a system of progressive increases for occupational contingencies and for the cessation of activity. It is also necessary to maintain certain transitional rules relating to access to the retirement pension. This extension means that persons who are eligible for retirement in this year 2021 will be able to continue to apply the most beneficial legislation that was in place prior to the entry into force of the Pension Reform Act, known as Law 27/2011. We're talking about the safeguard clause. For the end-of-year effect it was also appropriate, and has been done so in the present royal decree-law, to extend the minimum bases of contribution until the interprofessional minimum wage for the year 2021 is approved. Finally, in this text there is an extension of particular relevance, that of the Care Plan until 31 May; an updated and modified plan in its scope and content, which forms a model of centrality of care that must be a basic reference in the lives of people and businesses. We want it to be now and we want it to be in the future. He concluded, Royal Decree-Law 2/2021, which we now submit to its validation, is still an emergency rule and with that responsibility, as an emergency rule, has been designed. It is a text with firm direction and clear budgets that weaves the tether so that the new framework of labour relations is healthier, more effective and more humane. But the circumstances have changed markedly since the first approval of this ERTE mechanism. I tell you more, we're getting into a phase, if I may, post-ERTE, in which the pandemic is spreading too much over time. This forces us, as other countries in our environment are doing, to be more ambitious. It is a matter of not weakening now that we see, thanks to vaccination, an exit. This is the moment when we have to complete our task, defend our economy, defend our workers and our businesses. It is time once again to rise to the occasion. We must do everything possible to ensure that a crisis that is cyclical, which we have faced with all the resources and tools at our disposal, does not become a structural crisis. To this end, we must deepen our efforts to maintain employment. It is time for small businesses and self-employed people to have support. This crisis cannot be irremediable to anyone. We must preserve and consolidate our productive fabric. And it is time to make many decisions, decisions that will lead us to the transformation that Europe demands of us; decisions that will save our productive sectors, that will allow us to reindustrialise Spain. We need this crisis not to be chronicled, from here we need stable processes that allow us to grow, to resize; to grow with more formation - as we are already doing - with more innovation and with more digitisation, with sustainability and with an irrefutable horizon of equality. And let us do so without giving up - if I may - hope. Saramago said energies come back when hope comes back. We need both energy and hope. That is why I ask your ladies and gentlemen to accompany the Government at this key moment by supporting this royal decree-law and, also, by contributing to the future solutions that our society demands by uniting us in a collective and responsible response to the pandemic. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-18-CD210218.u5	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs Cepeda. The Joint Parliamentary Group, first of all, Mr Sayas López, is taking part in the position-setting exercise.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-18-CD210218.u6	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. First of all, Madam Minister, I want to value the agreement. I think it is fair to acknowledge that it is important to seek consensus on a matter like this with social partners, trade unions and employers, and this royal decree comes with that endorsement. That's a good start and a good starting point. EERTs have clearly proved to be a necessary and effective tool in sustaining employment and also in sustaining the viability of many companies in our country. This is a real positive decree and that is why we are going to support it, but it is also insufficient and that is why we have to walk in improvements. And when I say that we have to walk in improvements I am referring to that the goal that ERTEs have is to sustain employment, sustain economic activity and not destroy businesses. So, if the government is inflexible and it comes to pass that, given the economic situation in our country, companies that have to fire a worker will have to end up returning everything that has been sustained in social security quotas, not only will we not sustain employment, but all we will achieve is the ruin and destruction of a lot of business fabric. And that's a way we have to go and rethink. Minister, we have four million Spaniards unemployed, 750 000 people are still in ERTE, businesses are suffocated, the self-employed can no longer; we have an artificially sustained economy with public funds and there is no confidence either to invest or to consume. And I ask you: do you believe that trust is generated with extremist pacts, communist policies or agreements with the Batasuns? Can we generate confidence and attract investment for Spain by saying that our country is not a full democracy? Obviously not. And that is why I ask you to transfer your partner, the vice president, Mr Iglesias, the need for me to stop saying sandwiches that look very good to him in his political game, but that they turn into ruin for Spain. I believe that four million unemployed people, 750 000 people at ERTE, all the companies that are suffering, all the self-employed who cannot do more, deserve from their vice president a little more respect, a little institutional height and a little more maturity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-18-CD210218.u7	Thank you, Mr. Sayas. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the same parliamentary group, Mr Quevedo Iturbe has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-18-CD210218.u8	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning, everyone. Madam Minister, New Canarias has already expressed itself on numerous occasions in relation to this type of initiative. We have no doubt that, in a very harsh situation like the one we are going through, the response by the Government and the public administrations as a whole must be a countercyclical response and intervention in the economy and in the worst-case sectors. Therefore, general agreement on this issue. In this royal decree-law in particular there is also good news: it is the product of dialogue and consensus, and this is precisely what it is about; dialogue and consensus of the Government with the social partners, trade unions and business sector; IV Social agreement in defense of employment that New Canarias supports because we believe that there can be no other way. There are two fundamental elements here: one, the protection of the self-employed, this is a fundamental issue. With regard to the self-governing sector, there is no electoral programme on which everyone does not commit a great deal to self-governing, and then nothing ever happens. I believe that action is really being taken to improve not only the set of benefits and situations that are recognised but the agility in the provision of aid, because there are many self-employed people who are going through a dramatic situation. You mention it well in the preamble of the royal decree: hospitality, restoration and leisure. That in the Canary Islands accounts for 35% of GDP, i.e. three times as much as the Spanish average. Therefore, the canary understands this issue especially well, because it is true that the canary economy is more dependent on sectors such as tourism than I would like, but that's what there is, and how that's what there is, we need a concrete response and this real decree-law I think improves the previous situation. Then, in relation to the ERTE there is a date here that I would already like to serve: 31 March, until 31 March. I assure you that we will need much more than until March 31st. Canary Islands with the date until March 31 does not solve its problems due to its dependence on tourism, safe, and the rest of the state we believe that neither, I suppose that caution is clear from his ministry. We cannot until 31 March, but until this situation makes it possible to raise the flight to a minimum to all those sectors which are in a dramatic situation at the moment. You therefore have the support of New Canarias, with the exception that the Canary Islands situation will require specific plans sooner or later, for example, for the recovery of tourism activity. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-18-CD210218.u9	Thank you very much, Mr Quevedo. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Matute García de Jalón has the floor for the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-18-CD210218.u10	President, ladies and gentlemen, we have again come to this rostrum to reiterate our position on this subject. Our position has always been in favour of shielding a protective shield for workers and is not going to change at this time; moreover, we continue to think that it is still necessary for the State to intervene in the economy and to do so in order to defend the workers. That is why we support this royal decree, we support it because we believe that the ERTE must be maintained until 31 May - not 31 March - but probably in a few months' time we will have to reconsider this debate because we agree with the aid to the self-employed, with the benefits for cessation of activity, with the speeding up of administrative procedures - which are sometimes causing many people not to cover the ERTE when they would have to charge them and have to wait several months for the aid to crystallize, materialise and get the money to their accounts - but we also believe it is important that employers are required, who are so eager to ask for State aid - even though they have a very important liberal gene that has made them grow from the cradle to raise their empires, forgetting that half of them have been inherited -, to all these people who now queue in the State window to receive public aid, who then do not fire the workers when the aid ceases. And we also believe that it is important that the amount for the benefit does not fall to 70%, 50% or 60%, as was sometimes proposed. That is why we are going to support the royal decree, but while we support it, we also want to point out some issues. You in the royal decree - I think it's on the first or second page, I don't remember exactly - literally say that these measures have proved their effectiveness in protecting the productive fabric and the working people. At a time of extreme health, social and economic complexity, these decrees have helped to sustain companies - that is without doubt - and ultimately to protect employment. But that is not so true, surely you would like this to be literal and exactly what has happened, but it is not true because, at least in the streets and villages of Euskal Herria, we see how people are fired in Tubacex, in Matricerias Deusto, in the aeronautical sector in general, Aernnova, Alestis, ITP Aero Castings, PCB. That is not to maintain employment and they are doing so big entrepreneurs taking advantage of the situation, and I insist on the word conjuncture because in this short-term reality they are taking structural measures such as destroying employment and, moreover, as has happened with PCB - now that it seems that this is very fashionable among the Spanish media opinion -, in some cases they have done so by dissolving workers who were manifesting peacefully, with absolute and excessive police violence. See the case of the secretary general of the Workers' Commissions Industry at the PCB demonstration, Javi Gómez - to whom I send a greeting - to whom they broke the nasal partition for free. But, as I say, we are very much afraid that we will have to be here again because it is very likely that on 31 May, when the extension period of these measures ends, we will continue to encounter this same reality; that is, the long-awaited new normality will not yet be a practical, daily and daily realization in people's lives. It is very likely that many exceptional measures will still have to be maintained in the summer, taking into account what the members of the Government themselves are pointing out when they talk about the rates of vaccination or the rates of return to normal. And that's what we're looking at: what are you going to do, what are you going to demand from the CEO on this occasion? Because so far they have been in the social dialogue and have not gone wrong; we have helped them to ease their economic burdens at the cost of the public ERA, but they continue to insist that the impossibility of firing within six months of the completion of the ERTE be eliminated. And we do not reject the social dialogue, it seems to us that there is social dialogue, but we find two serious shortcomings: the first, that this social dialogue is done with representative unions in the Spanish State, which are sometimes less representative in other national realities such as the Basque Autonomous Community, Navarre or Galicia, and there is neither the IGC, nor ELLA, nor LAB, which are much more majority here than those unions and, the second deficiency, which seems even more worrying if it can be, is that we believe that the CEO - mainly the CEO but not only - is sometimes making the social dialogue table his veto tool. That is why we encourage you, Minister, that what you have verbalized in some interview should be put into practice and not allow you to use the veto in the social dialogue to stop any possibility; possibilities that are conveyed in such basic elements as the rise of the interprofessional minimum wage or the need to repeal all the harmful aspects of labour reform. You have to swell your teeth to all that because, if you don't, it'll be late when we want to. It is very good that the State contributes to cover expenses, it is very good that it makes the effort it is making with the ERTE, that the public injection aid serves to alleviate the situation of all, but in the end that no one forgets that this is a clear example of public intervention, of a public intervention that some denounce when they consider it appropriate, but which they resort to whenever they are needed or see that they can take something out. This reality is also worrying about another aspect: because we cannot forget that unemployment in the Spanish State is asphyxiating, also in the Basque Autonomous Community and in Navarre, but to a lesser extent. And in the face of this reality we cannot cheat, that is to say, there is a long list of unemployed and unemployed - I think it is around 4 million - there is 40% youth unemployment in the Spanish State and all this without telling the people who are welcome to the ERTE and who do not know what future they are going to have after these ERTE, although in any case they count as registered in Social Security in terms of wage earners, although in reality, their reality, that of those self-employed and that of those people who are welcomed to ERTE, is that they are not working. So it's not just about buying time, it's about armoring rights. We think it is right that he should announce, as he did at the end of his speech, the will to go beyond what these aids mean. But it's time to shield rights, it's just that there's not going to be any other possible time to shield rights, if not, we're just buying time. It is about defining which model we are going to, because what we can see around the corner is that experienced workers are fired, workers left in the wire of the labour market by their age, because they will have more than 45 years of experience and, even if they have many years of experience, they will have difficulty getting into the labour market in exchange for hiring cheaper, though less skilled, labour to reduce each job. That's the fear we have and that's what we raise. It's over now. It seems to us that it is time to demand from large companies the same generosity that the State has shown to them and to them. A study already said: We are in times of public debt equivalent to that of the war in Cuba - by the way, I suppose a bitter day for those who still regret the collapse of the Spanish empire - but if that reality happens, we will have to act now. It is true that everything I have said has an ideological bias that I do not deny, is our own ideological bias, because, after all, we and we, the people of Euskal Herria Bildu, have always been much closer to a person who would have fulfilled years of living, like Lucio Urtubia, than to the great entrepreneurs. Mila esker.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-18-CD210218.u11	Thank you very much, Mr. Matute. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Barandiaran Benito has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-18-CD210218.u12	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Good morning, Madam President. By means of this royal decree-law, the Government takes action against the prolongation of the situation of alarm by COVID-19 and transfers to the legal system the social agreement in defense of employment signed by the Government with various social actors on 19 January 2021. This Royal Decree-Law, as the Minister has explained, includes a battery of measures ranging from the extension of the ERTEs both of force majeure due to new impediments and of partial delimitation, the extension of those of ETOP, it also maintains the requirements relating to the distribution of dividends, fiscal transparency, the limitation of overtime, the commitments to maintain employment, it also provides for the keeping of the accountant to zero in respect of unemployment benefits, the maintenance of the 70% rate applicable to the regulatory basis for calculating benefits from 180 days on, the non-requirement of the period of absence, the compatibility of unemployment benefits with part-time work and the measures to support self-employed workers set out in Royal Decree-Law 30/2020. It envisages as other differentiated measures constituting a tripartite monitoring commission for its follow-up - and worth the redundancy - measures to speed up the procedures, such as the application without a solution of continuity of the measures corresponding to a situation of ERTE - is frankly interesting this measure - the flexibility of aspects of access to the National Youth Guarantee System, the simplification of the electronic processing of requests for benefits to SEPE, the validation of the holding by videoconference or conference of meetings of administrative bodies, civil associations and societies, merchants and boards of directors of cooperatives and, in particular, we welcome the continuation until 31 May of the enjoyment of economic benefits for unemployment in favour of a sector as affected as that of artists in public shows in view of the prolongation of the situation that led to the initial benefit provided for in Royal Decree-Law 17/2020. Madam Minister, alongside this there are three issues on which we would like to draw some attention. First, the extraordinary extension of the lease term for a maximum period of six months, as well as the possibility granted to the lessee of a habitual housing contract to request from the lessor, where the lessor is a company or public housing entity or a large holder, the temporary and extraordinary postponement in the payment of the rent. We believe that, being necessary, in agreement with this measure, it may also be necessary to make a few clarifications. In another order, the fourth final provision amends section 53.1(a) of the consolidated text of the Law on Offences and Penalties in the Social Order - which we also know both, I believe - and contemplates the automated issuance of infringement records without intervention by the Inspector of Labour and Social Security. You know, Minister, that this provision has generated a great controversy, and you have done so in the face of the possible collision between the rights of those administered and the use of artificial intelligence tools that are to assume then that it will be the algorithm itself calculated by them that will propose directly the opening of files and the sanction, and this without prejudice to the fact that it is purportedly provided exclusively - it says so in the justification of the ministry - for those violations whose existence can be detected automatically from the registers of the databases, in particular from the Social Security Administration. In our view, the introduction of this automated form of infringing act causes some regulatory disconcertingness as it does not fit in with the provisions of the special sanctioning procedure, so that its implementation will determine either the need for a second action by the Labour and Social Security Inspector, which eliminates the automated nature of this action, or, where appropriate, the initiation of proceedings without the precise evidentiary value, an issue which, if necessary, would also completely distort the sanctioning mechanism and could affect the legal guarantees of those administered. We are very much afraid that, possibly as a development to this forecast, certain legal changes will be required on the one hand, and also a regulatory development that must be so comprehensive that it must include among them an absolute guarantee of the rights of those who are administered. We'll talk about it too. Finally, the fifth final provision of the Decree-Law introduces a number of amendments to the consolidated text of the General Social Security Act in order to facilitate access by the Social Security Administration to the data of workers and employers and the obligation to transfer data to facilitate the electronic processing of benefits. In this respect, the main issue lies in the amendment to Article 71.3, which deals with the provision of information to the Social Security Administration, since it adds to the requirement that there was already a requirement for the transmission of reports, clinical documentation and other medical data strictly related to the injuries and illnesses suffered by the person concerned which are relevant to the resolution of the procedure - which was the determination that existed previously - the need to send the medical record of the workers concerned and electronic and paper access to the existing medical record in the public health services. Our conclusion, Minister, is that this reform enables Social Security to have indiscriminate access to the entire clinical history of those affected, thus producing a certain or notorious - we understand -, in some cases, collision with personal data protection legislation, an issue that certainly deserves particular attention and a differentiated assessment because of its scope and significance. In conclusion, Minister, we are going to support this royal decree-law, but we would also like you to take note of these three aspects that I have mentioned to you, because we understand that, along with the adoption of this royal decree-law, it will also be necessary to process it as a bill in order to be able to remedy some of the issues that we believe are, in addition to striking, remedial, or certainly correctable in some case. Thank you very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-18-CD210218.u13	Thank you very much, Mr Barandiaran. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Muñoz Vidal has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-18-CD210218.u14	Thank you, President. Good morning, minister. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I want to start my speech with a previous question, and it is the strong condemnation of the violent acts provoked by radicals in Madrid and Barcelona last night and the previous one. [[Applauds]] Solidarity and support for members of the State Security Forces and Corps attacked by criminals and criminalized by political parties of the Government Coalition. The spokesman for Podemos, Mr Echenique, has here today the opportunity to retract his words and, if he has dignity, to apologize to the police, to the neighbours, to the merchants who have suffered attacks and looting. I ask your Government to stand aside from Mr Echenique's words because, otherwise, his decadence and that of our democracy will have no end. [[Applauds]] Minister, I don't know about you, but I have a feeling of living on marmot day. For almost a year now, in the royal decrees that the Government has brought to this House, there have always been three things. The first is that they are measures that are within the framework of what is acceptable, but they are measures in some cases totally inadequate and in which you, in addition, do not accept contributions. They struggle to listen to the opposition and continue to present real decrees with the same mistakes. Today, again, we have here a real decree-law that raises issues that one cannot oppose, but that means putting again insufficient measures on the table, is to put a strip where it would take a tourniquet to cover the wound that this country bleeds for. But they also make mistakes, because they continue to entangle the picture of aid and benefits that are currently in place to safeguard and preserve employment. Our SMEs, our self-employed, our families and society, in general, have been enduring, consuming their savings for many months, reducing their spending to adapt to the new situation, in short, making financial juggling to reach the end of the month. Minister, you have spoken of ambition, of following the path of neighbouring countries and of being able to live up to it. Do we really not think of a lost direct aid plan that does not have to be returned for our businesses and our self-employed? Aren't you really going to try to save the little business fabric that stands in our country, injecting liquidity so that you don't have to be in debt anymore? Do you really not know, Minister, that when the restrictions are gradually lifted, despite all these measures put in place, if there has been no direct aid, in Spain there will only be a completely destroyed plot? From my parliamentary group, Citizens, we have been trying to open our eyes for months - months. We are asking nothing more or less than what you have also said in this rostrum, which is to resemble our European partners, our neighbouring countries, for example, Germany. But, of course, we are not Germany, because Germany entered this crisis with the duties done and with sufficient fiscal space to alleviate the economic effects of this pandemic. On the contrary, we, as you do not tell us, Spain, entered this black hole a year ago with thousands of millions buried on social Fridays and expenses associated with twenty-two ministries, high-ranking salaries and even public nannyes. You repeat your mantra that it is the government that has made the most fiscal effort to date in times of crisis, but the fact is that the comparison with our European partners leaves you in evidence. Last week, the European Central Bank itself issued a report that placed Spain as the country with the least fiscal stimulus in 2020 in the face of the economic crisis caused by the coronavirus. According to the European Central Bank's report, the government of Pedro Sánchez spent only 1.3% of GDP on this type of aid, compared to the average of 4% in the eurozone. It is true that this report from the European Central Bank does not include either ERTE or ICO loans, but that, if included, we would continue behind France, Germany or Italy. By entering into the matter that concerns us with the specific technical matter of this royal decree, we have the extension of the ERTE until 31 May under the same conditions as so far, and we have no objections; I also extend the Care Plan for those who cannot work for having to care for minors, older or dependent and who are entitled to have the company adapt or reduce their time, even to 100%, a reduction which, however, implies the reduction of the salary in the same proportion. And this is the insufficiency or allergy to correct errors that I was talking about at the beginning of my intervention. This is not the solution that Spanish families deserve because you continue to force those who need it most to give up part of their salary to take care of their minors, older or dependent. And this could be resolved if you listened to the amendments that we have tabled from my group in each of the Royal Decrees relating to COVID, which is to assimilate these child-care situations or quarantine of family members to work accidents so that families are not forced to choose between taking care of their own or bringing full pay home. I also extend this Royal Decree on aid to self-employed persons until 31 May, with a change because now access to the benefit does not have to have been quoted the twelve months before the application and, moreover, the billing has to have fallen by 50%, not 75% as hitherto. We agree, we celebrate your correction. Minister, it is over, she has talked about being up to speed and I ask you, please, to change your attitude, to change your attitude, to change your attitude, to lead at once the response to this health and economic crisis, to promote quiet reforms, to stop blocking the processing as a bill of their decrees and to listen to society and to the rest of political groups. Be ambitious. I give you the reason, you must be up to it because the Spaniards demand it and because the Spaniards deserve it. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-18-CD210218.u15	Thank you very much, Mrs. Muñoz. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] The Plural Parliamentary Group has the floor, first of all, Mr Rego Candamil.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-18-CD210218.u16	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, again they bring to this House the validation of a decree-law whose main measure is the extension of the ERTS, now until 31 May, and we have to acknowledge that almost a year after the first state of alarm was decreed and many royal decrees then advance towards measures that would guarantee more social justice in this economic crisis resulting from the coronavirus and which the BNG claimed from the beginning. For example, they put the accountant at zero so that unemployment does not count as consumed, but, unfortunately, it will only apply to new applications. However, if this is an extension of an earlier ERTE, unemployment has already begun to be consumed since 1 October. All workers, including those who were fired as a result of the pandemic or who had been unemployed since 1 January, should be given the same consideration when taking advantage of these measures. And now they also include the guarantee that 70% of the regulatory base will be covered throughout the ERTE, even exceeding 180 days of service. Let us remember that this temporary measure does not entail the repeal of the 2012 labour reform, which you continue to maintain and which will again apply to the ERTE after the pandemic. They should continue to take note of many proposals, as, in our view, much remains to be included. For example, the prohibition of simultaneous application of an ERTE with another measure consisting of a pay cut, the non-application of a collective agreement, the substantial modification of working conditions, geographical or functional mobility or the possibility of a special and extraordinary procedure for the immediate payment of unemployment with the making of payrolls to make the payments week by week until the updating of the files, allowing for the resumption of payments by month, since maintaining the ordinary form of payment entails delays with serious consequences. In addition, they should bear in mind that ERTE cannot be an à la carte menu for businesses. They must also make commitments and be co-responsible. Therefore, it is necessary that those companies that want to benefit from an ERTE meet certain conditions, some more than you point out, how to complete up to one hundred percent of the wages and progressively incorporate all the temporary staff of the main or external company that was fired and that as a deadline do so in the last month of the ERTE. Finally, you opted for the ERTE procedure rather than for a real ban on redundancies and financial support for wages, as proposed by the BNG. In any case, this procedure can and must provide more protection for all workers and, as I say, despite some progress, we do not yet see it reflected in this decree in this way.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-18-CD210218.u17	Mr. Rego, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-18-CD210218.u18	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-18-CD210218.u19	Thank you very much, Mr. Rego. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Boadella Esteve has the floor for the same parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-18-CD210218.u20	Good morning. Thank you very much, President. Madam Minister, let me first of all, in this first intervention, after the Catalan elections, use it to give timely thanks to the people who trusted in the PDECAT as a focused force, as a force that believes in the productive economy. We will continue to try to contribute this independence centre to Catalonia and, therefore, this voice will also have the appropriate voice in the Congress of Deputies. On the subject, let me also remind the minister of my obsession with the timetable. These ERTEs, which ended on 31 January, leave at the BOE on 26 January. We have Wednesdays, Thursdays and Fridays. We are improving on the issue of improvisation when it comes to regulating these rules. As for one thing that you pointed out, because this no longer looks circumstantial, temporary, one of the improvements that we proposed is that it may start to think that these ERTEs last until December 31, 2021 and have a much broader temporal objective than looking for the extension at the last minute on various occasions. Without a doubt, it must be recognized that the renewal of the ERTS comes with social dialogue - this gives you the corresponding protection and justifies that we support this real decree-law - but not only in the social dialogue you can find improvements in the configuration of these ERTS. I think it is good that it is also known that the Royal Decree-Law 9/2020, of March last year, began to be processed here two days ago as a bill. The parliamentary groups also have many ideas, many proposals to improve the configuration of these ERTs. I suppose you, that some influence must also have on the management of the House, can help to ensure that the processing of bills does not take a year to go on since the validation of the actual decree-law in turn takes place. Fronts that can be improved are, for example, management of protection exemptions or commitment to job maintenance. We had a proposal that we continue to maintain, which is that this is linked to the recovery of billing levels. If this is not circumstantial, as you pointed out earlier, it is clear that this penalty of returning all the contributions of all workers who have been in ERTE may end up sinking to companies that have endured so far. The prohibition of dismissal will not be alien to him either because of the various judgments that begin to come out already considering dismissal null or void. Some element will also have to be provided to clarify the legal configuration of this dismissal ban. In short, in the management of the unemployment benefit there are still people who complain that they do not charge ERTE - you will deny it and you will say that everything works correctly - but there is a proposal that I think we do have to value all in depth. Why does SEPE pay on the 10th of each month and not on the 1st? He tells me not with his head because there are agreements with the banks. All right, but the people who get the unemployment pay pass the rent receipt, the school receipt and the rest on the first days of each month. Therefore, here we have to make a change, no longer in relation to ERTs, but a change in concept in unemployment benefits. As I said earlier, I believe that this is not circumstantial and that we have to put it with a much longer view until the end of the year and look for other solutions, such as direct aid, so that they are also part of this ERTE regulation package. In all this, I believe that there can be a connection and a certain consensus among all groups so that the best way to regulate the way out of this crisis can be achieved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-18-CD210218.u21	Thank you very much, Mrs. Boadella. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia en Comú, Mr Rodríguez Rodríguez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-18-CD210218.u22	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning to everyone and everyone. Even if there are those who want us to forget, we are still in the midst of the global pandemic. It has conditioned our lives, it has meant enormous sacrifices, and many of the sequels are still not even able to value them to their fair extent. I am talking about physical and, of course, economic consequences, but also about social and psychological consequences of which little is said. It's a perfect combination to leave a broken society if we don't face reality from all these perspectives. But let's go to work, which is today's theme. The fall in GDP - from the creation of wealth - in our country has always led to an even greater fall in employment. In 2008 and 2009, GDP fell by 4 points, but employment fell by 6 points. In 2012 and 2013, in times of approval of the fateful labor reform, the economy fell 3 points and employment fell more, dropped 5 points. These are not cold statistics, these are broken lives of working people. At the beginning of 2008 there were 2 million people unemployed in Spain and at the end of 2012 there were 6 million, 6 million. That is, in just four years, 4 million people lost their jobs and, therefore, their livelihood and that of their families. We're back to 2020. The damn virus, the global pandemic, is coming, the economies are paralysing - and even more so if we have those based on the services sector, like that of our country - and GDP, the generation of wealth, falls sharply. If in 2008 4 points fell, in 2020 in just a few months 11 points fell, almost triple. Historical logic would lead us to think that employment fell even further, but the reality is that the fall did not reach 2%, which - eye! - is a lot of people, especially with precarious and temporary employment. But there is something strange about this fact, something that does not add up: how can it be that, because of the systemic logic followed so far by rajatabla, we should be talking about eight, nine or ten million unemployed people and yet the increase, although dramatic of course, of people who have lost their jobs has been 570 000? Why is this happening? Because the social shield measures approved by the Government and, above all, the changes in the ERE promoted by the Ministry of Labour, headed by Minister Yolanda Díaz, here present, have worked in many cases. This is undeniable, it is not an opinion, it is a reality. Does this mean we have to be happy? Evidently, no. Does this mean that ERTE and the termination benefit of the self-employed are the panacea and have served to ensure that everyone is covered? No, I'm not. Temporary employment had no network, and this left many people, young people and women mainly without effective protection and in a very complicated situation; the same happened, for example, with the submerged economy or with people who for various reasons have not been able to receive this benefit. Now, let the trees not prevent us from seeing the forest. What I have just said cannot hide an overwhelming truth and is that the ERTEs promoted by the Ministry of Labour have saved millions of people; they have allowed many families to maintain an income during these months of hell; they have rescued thousands of companies that, under normal conditions, would have had to close, with a huge debt; above all - and it is rarely named, but it is the strategic objective of the measure - they have saved a lot of jobs, a lot of jobs, and, unlike on other occasions, the measure has had a broad democratizing character, because it has protected autonomous and small and medium-sized enterprises, not only large multinational companies, as is often the case, unfortunately, with many of the measures approved in this Chamber. According to Intermon Oxfam, the ERTE and the government's social shield measures have, as you know, protected seven hundred thousand people; they have prevented seven hundred thousand people from falling into poverty - it is said quickly -. For example, today, in a territory like the Canary Islands, which has its economy practically based on the monoculture of tourism - and it is clear that, with the global pandemic, there is no tourism - the ERTE are literally saving lives. Today, thanks to the existence of these measures, more than eighty thousand canarian families continue to exist and more than seven hundred thousand families at the state level can fill the refrigerator or reach the end of the month in the best possible way. I know a lot of people are staying out, but it's also about putting value on things that are doing well. The objective of the Royal Decree-Law that we are discussing today is to consolidate the flexibility and conciliation tool of the ERTEs, to protect jobs with safeguard clauses and to facilitate management and processing by companies, precisely to prevent the people who are responsible for collecting them from not collecting them or later collecting them, which is a serious problem that we have in the country and that needs to be solved. Furthermore, as some Members have already commented, the automation of the sanctioning process by the Labour Inspectorate is added to those companies that do not comply. We are delighted with this measure, because it is excellent news for the working people, but also for the decent entrepreneurs who religiously fulfill their obligations and who suffer the unfair competition of unscrupulous entrepreneurs who do nothing; that is unfair manual competition. Therefore, the working people are happy, but also the decent entrepreneurs because the sanctions are automated by the Labour Inspectorate. This measure is very important, it is a tool that must be consolidated so that it can be used when, unfortunately, it is needed. But if we really want to change the country's dramatic labour reality, we must transform the productive models into green, care and, of course, we must change labour legislation as soon as possible so that the working people can recover what they have lost in these years of cuts, gain new rights and have in collective bargaining the best tool to defend their quality of life. It is therefore urgent and necessary that we build that social and political majority sufficient to achieve it. I am sure that, despite the sticks on the wheels, despite the pressures inside and outside, we will end up getting this historic victory for the working people. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-18-CD210218.u23	Thank you very much, Mr. Rodriguez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Espinosa de los Monteros de Simon has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-18-CD210218.u24	Thank you, Madam President. [[The Lord]] It is right for Mr Echenique to leave, because my first words, no doubt, must be of support to our Police, our State Security Forces and Corpses and to all those who have been trying to keep order, peace and justice on the streets; and of condemning those irresponsible politicians who are inciting violence on social networks. What a shame! What a shame Mr. Echenique gives me! [[Applauds]] You'd better go. Madam Minister, your speech has been much sweeter; even, you have quoted Saramago in a poetic boast, but with the policies of this government what they need is not Saramago, it would take to be a magician to create employment under these conditions. Over the years, the various Labour Ministers have always assumed, with greater or lesser fortune, the amount of employment that has been created during your time, and you, what is the Communist Labour Prime Minister, but no; you like the opposite more precisely: you boast of the number of people who are receiving a benefit. To the spokesman for Podemos, Alberto Rodríguez, it also seems that the fact that we have a million people without a job is a reason to be happy. [[Applauds]] You said recently - a few months ago - that we had a historical record of people who were receiving a benefit, and now you come to assume that, months later, we remain exactly the same. Look, as I told you in September, on the occasion of the last enlargement of the ERTE, extending the ERTE is not a success, it is a failure, and it is a failure because it is the best indicator of the defeat of an economic policy, which, if we fail to remedy in time, will lead millions of workers, traders, SMEs and self-employed people to ruin. Today, when we are discussing the third extension of measures to compensate for lack of employment, it is worthwhile to stop and reflect on their effectiveness. Have these measures achieved their objective? Have you managed to save our companies? Have you managed to save the jobs? Have you safeguarded our productive fabric, which is essential to boost recovery? I'm afraid not. On the contrary, as we have already warned since March, a year ago, the measures of this Government have been clearly insufficient to prevent what, in principle, might appear to be a liquidity problem arising from the economic stoppage of the pandemic, but which is undoubtedly becoming a problem of structural solvency. Madam Minister, already then, with a sense of responsibility, in VOX we support the ERTE and the extraordinary measures in their moment of support for employment. But we warned him then that these measures would be insufficient to get out of this moment without one more stop and without one less company, and we would have liked nothing more than to have been wrong. However, what we know today is that they were indeed insufficient. As a report from the European Central Bank acknowledged a few days ago, Spain has been the least invested country in supporting businesses and SMEs during this epidemic and, despite its enthusiasm, the result, Minister, is devastating. We have the worst result in the developed world. Madam Minister, it was about saving businesses; however, Spain has destroyed more companies than any other country in Europe. According to INE data, more than 207,000 businesses have been lost since the outbreak, more than 17% of the total. The aim was to protect the self-employed; that the measures had not been sufficient as evidenced by the loss of almost 100,000 self-employed jobs. It was a matter of saving jobs, but on the contrary, these measures have not prevented a bloodbath of jobs, as there has not been in any other country. There is nothing to be presumed in the fact that - as Eurostat recalled a few days ago - Spain concentrates four out of ten new unemployed in Europe, 40%. Above all, it was a question of preventing a short-term, liquidity crisis from becoming a solvency problem. However, Spain is at the head of companies at risk of bankruptcy, with one in four for liquidity problems, and we cannot allow this situation to continue, Minister. Thousands of traders, self-employed and SMEs simply can't anymore, they can't anymore, and, once again, Minister, these measures are not enough. In our country, it is where gross domestic product has sunk the most in 2020, 11% in just one year. When the gross domestic product falls by 11%, only to return to the previous rate, at the starting point, it is necessary to increase not more than 11 but by 12.4%. That is, if you drop an 11 to get to the starting point - believe me - you have to climb a 12,4 %, just to tie to 2019, and to get an idea of how difficult that is, grow a 12,4 %, in the last twenty years the record decrease of Spain has been 4,1 % in a year. So we would have to have three consecutive years of record growth, which has never occurred in our history, just to tie the gross domestic product rate of 2019, and that to reach the year 2024. That is to say, four years lost, the equivalent of a full legislature, and yet hopefully we will arrive, Minister; it would be desirable for Spain, and we will put on our side from this Congress, but with you in the government it will be very difficult. Because you, with your nightly ideology, are a crushing machine of businesses and employment, and it is true that it is very difficult to be a good Minister of Labour when one has not created a single job before. In this you do not distinguish much from your predecessors in office, who, like the previous ones, probably already when you are exministrated may realize, Minister, that employment is not created by decree. [[rumors]] Politicians do not create jobs, except for themselves and their party partners; politicians are very capable of destroying jobs with rules, with prohibitions, with taxes, with difficulties, with barriers of all kinds, they can do so, but they are not able to create it. What you can do is to create a favourable environment for job creation, an ecosystem that is attractive to the generation of wealth, to the attraction of investment, a market that stimulates growth, an administration that facilitates, that does not hinder, the self-employed, the traders, the small entrepreneurs, the SMEs, that do create employment, and that do create it with great difficulty, assuming great risk, with great uncertainty; they create it despite governments like their own, that approve and approve themselves of the General Budgets of the State, precisely in charge of those who create employment, in which you raise salaries, increase their staffing, renew their official cars and dedicate hundreds of millions of euros to ideological chiringuitos. Minister, you are a risk to recover Spain, you are the only government in the European Union that has raised taxes during the coronavirus epidemic. Just when companies are demanding aid you have devoted yourselves to raising taxes, and the new thing is that you are now going to subject them to inspections of equality, a genuine facilitator of employment, of course. Today, moreover, in an economic situation that does not offer opportunities for our young people, who are suffering in our neighborhoods, you add here, in this decree, an additional third provision that facilitates the access of the MENA to the Youth Guarantee System so that they can continue to collect from the State.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-18-CD210218.u25	Mr Espinosa de los Monteros, I would have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-18-CD210218.u26	It's over. Minister, the Spaniards want to work, but with you it's going to be very difficult. You have abandoned the merchants, the SMEs, the self-employed, our young people to advance a sectarian agenda that is bringing them to ruin. You are a danger to the survival of our economy, our nation and our future. Do not count on us for such destructive work. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause by the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, on the ground]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-18-CD210218.u27	Thank you, Mr Espinosa de los Monteros. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr. Movellán Lombilla has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-18-CD210218.u28	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. From the People's Parliamentary Group we want to begin by condemning the violent acts that have taken place these days on the streets of our country, a firm condemnation of the violent and all our support for the State Security Forces and Corpses - we expect the early recovery of the more than forty wounded agents - and also our support for so many autonomous and so many Spaniards who have suffered the damage of the violent in Barcelona, Madrid and the rest of Spain. [[Applauds]] And it will be true that, as some in this country say, there is some democratic abnormality, because the gentleman who has fled a few minutes ago is still sitting here as a deputy representing a party that is in the government and that Mr. Churches is not being ceased at this time, that is a democratic abnormality. [[Applauds]] Because today many Spaniards feel real nausea when they see Mr Echenique; when they see you, Minister of Podemos, silently, not a single word; when they see how the speaker of Podemos, condemned for assaulting a policeman, has not been able to condemn the violent acts and the damage you are doing to this country. [[Applauds]] It is shameful because you are degrading institutions day by day. They degrade the Spaniards and put themselves on the side of the violent, they put themselves on the side of those who exalt terrorism. It is a real shame, you are the most unworthy thing that has gone through Spanish politics, how unworthy you are, ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE. How are they able to hold these gentlemen at the head of the government for one more minute? It is truly disastrous and the Spanish feel ashamed of this government and shame of the President of the government, who has not yet ceased all the ministers of Podemos. [[Applause of the Members of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, on the stand.-Rumores]] Today we are talking about employment, and all entrepreneurs, the self-employed, the merchants, the hoteliers who cannot arrive at the end of the month feel real shame because you are supporting a rapper accused of raising terrorism more than those self-employed, those hoteliers who have to pay all their bills and who do not arrive at the end of the month. It's truly a shame. That is why I say to you, Minister, that you can take all the pictures you want, but that you do not use the social partners in a carpeted photo call, because Spanish society needs a stability and security that your Government is not providing; security that does not provide the self-employed, the entrepreneurs, the workers of this country. But it is true that it is not true for all, it is true that, thanks to you, there are indeed collectives for whom the protection measures have been extended while the state of alarm lasts, such as, for example, the Okupas, minister. The workers of this country do not know what will become of them beyond three months, but, thanks to you, the Okupas have the complete assurance that they will not be evicted from a house that is not theirs until the effects of the pandemic end. And I tell you to use the same formula to extend this aid to employers, to self-employed people, to workers. If it is possible for the Okupas, it should also be possible for the families of this country, Minister. I do not know how much you have had to look for to find that democratic deficit, but what is certain is that it does not take so much to find that during the month of January 473 autonomous per day you have definitively closed your business. I also do not know how much you have had to look for the formula for the state to pay you a babysitter, but I assure you that, less than it took, any Spaniard finds the data that says you are the most numerous and incompetent government in all of Europe; a government that has placed us at the back of all rankings, economics, health care, with a 40.4% youth unemployment rate. And in less than one of Galapagar's vests, you can find those data that say that there are 1.2 million households where all their members are unemployed and that 36.7% of the unemployed are no longer receiving any benefits. But there is also evidence that his Government has created jobs, created 736 digital jobs in a year. There are 736 high-ranking officials appointed by the Spanish at the worst time. It must be said that the People's Group is going to support this royal decree because it incorporates the measures that we have been defending for months, because already in November last year in the processing of the general budgets of the State, we tabled, by amendment, that the ERTE and that the cessation of benefits for the self-employed were extended until 31 May; a measure that you rejected because it was presented by the People's Party but from which you now take heart and which comes to defend in this rostrum. Madam Minister, they are late again today and they are also short, because Spain needs a plan to rescue the productive, effective and realistic economy, with direct aid, which establishes a framework of certainty and advances in the agreed flexibility. Spain needs a tax shock plan with exemptions for self-employed people and SMEs who cannot normally develop their business. Our country also needs a fiscal rebalancing plan that will reduce inefficient public spending, and we have proposed this through a non-legislative proposal that we registered in this House last month. But I have to tell you, Mrs Díaz, that your Government is a Government of surfers, that it does not move until the wave arrives, which always waits until the last minute, even if this means playing with the tranquility that the Spaniards need so much. Finally, I would like to close my speech with a request, Minister, to return security to the employers, the self-employed, the workers and the workers of this country; to return the certainty, let us see if we can get the Spaniards to sleep as calm as if they were okupas. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-18-CD210218.u29	Thank you, Mr. Movellán. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, I have the floor, Mrs Peña Camarero.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-18-CD210218.u30	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Today we are dealing with the third extension of the ERTE and the aid to the self-employed, which demands the situation we are living in, the fourth agreement of the social dialogue where all the actors involved are up to the occasion, right? Not like others, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, because exaggerating and lying along the same path often goes, Mr. Movellán. Because there are already four agreements in which you, instead of realizing that entrepreneurs, self-employed people and working people want unity, solutions and agreements, set aside to torpedo the tool that is being able to relieve the burden on companies, maintain income for workers and ensure that the productive fabric is prepared for the exit from the crisis. Four agreements of the government of Pedro Sánchez with employers and trade unions for the benefit of the Spanish and four occasions wasted by the People's Party to defend the citizens of this country. In addition, eleven months have passed since the flexibility of the ERTEs, which have saved more than three and a half million jobs and hundreds of businesses, an instrument that is very valuable to avoid mass redundancies, a hibernation mechanism that will continue as long as necessary. ERTE that have worked well, providing confidence and certainty to workers and companies, where 83% of workers have already regained their jobs, only in European statistics behind the Netherlands. So the Government of Spain makes available to companies and workers with this decree €5 billion, €3500 for benefits and €1.5 billion for social security exemptions. A decree that adapts to the virulence of the impact of the pandemic, anticipates and provides certainty, with a duration until 31 May, gives continuity to the framework that has worked so well and is characterized by improvements in management. This decree has one thing that the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party do not like: the commitment to maintain employment is reinforced. The People's Party calls, wants and demands through this motion in all the territories of our country that the clause relating to the maintenance of employment be repealed. [[shows a document]] What do you want with that? Facilitate free dismissals. It can be seen that this goes in their DNA, when they rule and when they don't; the People's Party is demanding that it be fired and done also for free. They are demanding that people be thrown out into the streets, that thousands of jobs be lost, that hundreds of families be left behind, and they want the burden of the crisis to fall on the workers. It is in his way of managing crises: cuts, zero aid and easy dismissal, nothing new under the sun. Lucky for the Spaniards you don't rule. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, this is going to give a direct hand also to the self-employed, not to the neck, as you seem to want to do. It is true that they do not unite the known unemployment of the self-employed, which also, as a result of the agreement with the collective of self-employed, we approve today. An unprecedented - unpublished - measure, which we sometimes forget to put into value, which did not exist two years ago, which created the Socialist Minister Valerio and which has earmarked only 290 million euros last month for 355,000 self-employed workers. [[Applauds]] These are figures, and there is no need to shout because with arguments things are also defended. Look at some more information, last April your spokesman, Mr Casado, presented a wonderful rescue plan for self-employed people, which with EUR 2 billion was going to solve all the problems of our country's self-employed people. On 31 January this government invested €68 billion in aid to the self-employed. Good thing you're not ruling. So this is all important, but is it enough? No, it's not. As long as we are not in the process of immunity, we must protect leisure, culture, transport, and this Government is playing its part, but the autonomous communities have to complement, have to do so, it is compulsory to do so, it is common sense to put in place measures. So please get to work in the communities where you rule. Because it is true that the expectation is that the vaccine will work and normality will be around 31 May, but it will come the day after, when the great engine will be the reforms sponsored by European funds, which you also vote against, and it will not be the ERTE. And in that we are already in the Socialist Parliamentary Group, working to seek more substantive progress on the major challenges ahead of the regulation of the labour market and the rights of workers. Is it positive that the government of Pedro Sánchez has raised the interprofessional minimum wage more than any other in the history of our democracy? It is. Is it right for the government in this legislature to bring it to 60% of the average wage at the fastest possible rate? It is and we will carry it out, but the Socialist Group wants more, wants to leave behind the labour reform of the People's Party, we want to take care of the clear road map that the Spanish Government has launched, to resume collective bargaining, the prevalence of the sectoral agreement, the ultraactivity of the agreements, the end of irregular subcontracting or to simplify the system of contracting. Of course we are, in that we are in the Socialist Parliamentary Group. So, put on the piles, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, because the defense of the rights of workers and the economic fabric of our country with the Spanish Socialist Workers Party at the head is unstoppable. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-18-CD210218.u31	Thank you very much, Mrs Peña. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] - REAL DECRETO-LEY 3/2021, OF 2 FEBRUARY, BY WHICH MEASURES ARE TAKEN TO REDUCE THE GENERAL'S GOODS AND OTHER MATTERS IN THE FIELD OF SOCIAL AND ECONOMIC SECURITY. [[EXPENDITURE NUMBER 130/000043]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-18-CD210218.u32	We turn to the next item on the agenda, validation or repeal of Royal Decree-Law 3/2021 of 2 February, adopting measures for the reduction of the gender gap and other matters in the areas of social and economic security. To present the royal decree-law, the Minister of Inclusion, Social Security and Migration has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-18-CD210218.u33	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, the real decree-law before you today deepens the social commitment and commitment to the inclusion of this government. The three main measures included in this report clearly highlight our priorities. First, the narrowing of the gender pension gap reflects a labour market that still treats women and men unfairly and unequally. Secondly, a change in the minimum living income to facilitate access to certain particularly vulnerable groups, to which certain requirements for applying for the benefit were certainly difficult. As I have always said in this House, minimum living income must be a living resource. From the outset, we are committed to monitoring their progressive deployment, so that they can achieve their goals and reach those who need them. The reform that we are bringing today to validate this House is further proof of our commitment to its continuous improvement. Thirdly, the strengthening of social protection and the recognition of the professionals of our health system, who give us so much with their example and their ongoing struggle in this pandemic. In addition, this royal decree-law also includes measures of great importance for the protection of people who, as a result of the pandemic, have difficulty paying off their mortgage loans. I will divide my exposure into these blocks, starting with the supplement of pensions for the reduction of the gender gap. When we arrived at this ministry, one of our priorities in the area of pensions was the modification of the maternity supplement introduced in 2016, which, beyond its improved design, had been distorted after a judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union. In addition to being legally weak, the design of the maternity supplement had two fundamental problems. The first is that, although its purpose was to compensate for the worst pensions suffered by many women for having placed a greater burden on their child care responsibilities, it only provided compensation from the second child. This fact clashed with international evidence and also with the data we have and have collected in Social Security that show that the gender gap appears and has its greatest importance with the birth of the first child. The second problem was its design, which consisted of a percentage increase in pensions, which favored that the bulk of the budget would not end up in women with higher needs but in regressively in households with more generous pensions. As I have recalled here in many speeches, this is an almost endemic problem of our social policies. The reason why our levels of inequality are the highest in the countries in our environment is not so much that the revenues generated in the market are very unequal - which are similar to those in the countries in our environment - but that in the unprogressive design of public policies we can hardly reduce those inequalities. In order to correct these problems in this royal decree-law we replace the previous supplement of maternity pensions with a supplement to reduce the gender gap. This amendment thus responds to the need to make this complement a fairer and more efficient tool in reducing the gender gap, as acknowledged by your ladies and gentlemen in the Toledo Pact, which is a specific request in Recommendation No 17. It also has the courage to have been negotiated and agreed with all the social partners, workers' representatives and business representatives, and this measure has also been seen as a milestone in the transformation, resilience and recovery plan that we are completing. In Spain, there is evidence of a significant negative effect on women's wage income as a result of maternity, which is then also reflected in their pensions. Based on social security data, there is a notable difference, a gap between the wages of men and women, which is perfectly detected when the first child is born. This gap increases during the first years after birth and, more importantly, it is not corrected when children are already older. By consolidating this gap over time, the pension amounts of women and men end up being very different. The new instrument for which we are seeking validation today has been explicitly designed to correct this inequality; therefore, unlike the previous supplement, the requirements for activating the benefit attack the origin of the problem and will be in force as long as the gender gap in pensions remains in force. A parent who proves that his or her professional career has been damaged after the birth of the first child and who in the present case is 98% female shall be entitled to the new supplement. Where neither of the two members of the couple is able to prove that the right is infringed, the mother or the parent with a lower pension shall be recognised if the same sex is being treated. We also do this by setting a quantitative target, so the complement will be in effect until the gender gap that today is around 30% drops by 5%. The complement for the reduction of the gender gap is more effective and more progressive by contrast than the previous complement and allow me to demonstrate it with data. The new supplement will have a greater scope, as it is charged from the first child, not from the second as in the current system. In this way, not only is this benefit given to 30,000 more women per year, it helps to directly compensate for the consequences of the fact that the gap today causes, and also, unlike the previous one, allows men to perceive it if their career has been affected. Of the 186 000 women with children who will become pensioners by this year 2021, 75%, i.e. three out of four, will have a greater supplement than it had in the previous regulations. The new supplement will also cease to be regressive, as it has been in force in recent years, as it implies a fixed annual payment of EUR 400 per child, compared to the system of percentage increase of the current pension, which benefited especially a very minority component with the highest incomes and the highest regulatory bases. With the new supplement, more than 70% of the increase in the annual budget will be for people with pensions below EUR 12 600 - we are talking about EUR 900 a month - while with the current rule - which is replaced - only 50% of the annual payment is for lower income pensions. By making the most progressive complement, we better tackle the gender gap, limiting inequalities and benefiting those women who are at greater risk of being penalized more severely throughout their career. Some voices have criticized it as a non-contributory measure, and that is indeed the case; this measure will not be financed by social contributions, as recommended by the Toledo Pact, and that is the confusion, but by the general budgets of the State. It's a legitimate policy that comes out of the state's coffers and taxes, and that's why it's redistributive. [[Applauds]] The contribution is ensured by the establishment of the initial pension in proportion to what we have contributed and what we are doing now with that contribution is to improve its redistributive dimension, which, as I said before, is something that many of our public policies suffer. In short, it is a more generous, progressive and better designed policy to correct the gender gap in the medium and long term. With an additional budget increase of only 40 million compared to previous expenditure, we expanded the number of new beneficiaries by 30% and better concentrated the effect on lower incomes. For pensions below EUR 12 600, the budget increase is 80%, while for the rest of the sections it remains with few changes. Let me now turn to the second element of the Royal Decree-Law, which is the facilitation of access to minimum living income. The royal decree-law that I bring today to validate also includes a very relevant measure for a large number of vulnerable people. In essence, what we bring here is a change in the criterion of unity of living in the rules of minimum living income to facilitate access to particularly vulnerable groups and for whom accreditation of this situation is very complex. This is the technical definition of what they consider to be a home that, as you know, is something that has great relevance when it comes to receiving the benefit. Through a comprehensive analysis carried out with all the bodies involved in the last few months, we have detected some difficulties in accessing the benefit, specifically in cases with persons of itinerant residence, sinogarism, temporary, settlements and other cases where residence or housing is shared. We have realized that the definition as set out in the rule does not adapt to certain situations of coexistence of particularly vulnerable people and we have refused some 60,000 requests from households that met the rest of the requirements but not the accreditation of the coexistence unit. In order to include many of them and others who may not have applied for the benefit because of the difficulty they have of proving their residence, we have included in the decree the following measures: For persons in collective homes, facilitate access to these persons who live on a non-permanent basis in registered residential centres, such as shelters or shelters. In situations of temporary coexistence, we know that many times in cases of gender-based violence, divorce, separation, eviction or in habitability, people will live with other family members temporarily, but in order to avoid this fact leaving them out of the minimum living income we create the concept of independent coexistence unit that allows them to make the request without taking into account the rest of the people with whom they live. We also strengthen the cooperation of social workers and third-sector entities by allowing them to provide temporary and subsidiary accreditation of complex situations for social services in some cases. It is a great challenge to ensure that, at the end of the legislature, public social services have sufficient resources to respond to the demand that has created minimum living income, which, I would like to remind you once again, is not just a living benefit but a set of social policies aimed at achieving inclusion. Unfortunately, by removing honorable exceptions with a long and successful path with minimum incomes, the social services of this country are not at this time dimensioned for the challenge of the provision of minimum living income, which has forced us, transitionally and subsidarily, to resort to the experience and capacity of the organizations of the third sector, preventing any citizen from being harmed by the inadequate deployment of social services in their territory. I would like to take this opportunity to thank all the entities, agencies, social services and administrations, with whom we have a permanent dialogue, for their help in the process of continuous improvement of the delivery with which we are radically committed. Finally, the Decree-Law incorporates other very relevant social protection measures. First of all, it includes measures to strengthen the protection of those who are at the forefront of the fight against the pandemic: health and social health personnel. We facilitate the recruitment of retired healthcare professionals, making the retirement pension compatible with the activity. The aim is to increase the means to combat COVID and to tackle the vaccination process in the coming months. As a second measure, in the case of health and social health professionals who have contracted COVID in the exercise of their profession, it will be considered as a professional disease in order to give them greater protection. I take this opportunity to reiterate my gratitude on behalf of the entire Government to all those health and social health professionals who, with their courage and determination, are setting an example for us all. This Royal Decree-Law also includes other socio-economic measures, including the following. One is the flexibility of Covid's access to benefits for self-employed persons who tax by objective estimation. Two, an extension of coverage and an extension of the deadline for the application of financial moratoriums to mitigate the economic effects of Covid. And three, households, vulnerable self-employed persons and tourism and transport companies will be able to postpone the payment of the principal and the interest on their loans with and without mortgage guarantee to a total of nine months. Thus, we alleviate the financial burden borne by the groups most affected by the pandemic and strengthen their solvency. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask for the validation of this royal decree-law, which includes a number of measures to ensure that no one is left behind, reinforcing our commitment to equalizing the rights of women and men by means of a new complement to reduce the gender gap with greater scope, better design and more equitable, by making the minimum living income regulations more flexible to facilitate their access to some vulnerable groups. We want people who today lack the basic means to be able to participate fully in the social and economic life of the country. And finally, we ensure the protection of those who risk their lives for us by all means within our reach. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-18-CD210218.u34	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] He has requested the use of the turn against the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress. I have the floor on behalf of this group, Mr Cabezón Casas.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-18-CD210218.u35	Thank you very much, President. I would like to begin by condemning the fact that a Member of this House can show a tweet with the characteristics that he has put in supporting crime, supporting the violent concentrations that took place yesterday and that, moreover, no one from the Government has yet come out to condemn those manifestations of his government partners as well. [[Applauds]] I draw much more attention to the fact that one of the supposedly moderate ministers of this Government did not condemn the attacks on the State Security Forces and Bodies than yesterday, for maintaining constitutional order, for maintaining the security of all Spaniards, were violently assaulted in those concentrations. Untolerable, Minister. I hope and expect of you that you would have condemned these facts and endorsed the actions of the National Police. [[The Lord]] Ladies and gentlemen, today we are debating a new royal decree-law which involves a new quagmire of legislative amendments to very different subjects and which comes to demonstrate once again that the Sánchez government is ruling in the bush. This royal decree, Minister, speaks of maternity supplement, of your umpteenth reform on minimum living income, which you brought so structured from your previous stage, that you were so controlled and that you had agreed with all the autonomous communities, is a new modification. It also collects measures in favour of self-employed workers, which we share, moratoria in the payment of loans, public guarantees regulating access to certain information from the Institute of Official Credit, compatibility of retirement pension with the appointment as statutory staff of health professionals, but the most serious thing is that this royal decree-law hides an unprecedented cut in pensions, Minister. It is the first reform that you, Minister, Mr Escrivá, bring to Congress on pensions and supposes your first cut in pensions, a cut that most affects working mothers with two or more children, the first cut of that 30 billion euros that you announced a few days ago in a media media and that you defined as that moderate adjustment in pensions. It is true that the Toledo Pact in its recommendation 17 calls for structural measures to end the gender gap in pensions, but, Mr Escrivá, cannot rely permanently on the Toledo Pact to do what you want. The Toledo Pact was an agreement of all the parliamentary groups, with two votes against, in which we gave you a framework in which we could move all the parliamentary groups and in which we told you that you could move, but within that framework there are many ways to proceed and you no longer negotiate with any parliamentary group. That is their problem and, if you continue with that attitude, that will be the fear that one day you will find when you come to process any real decree or legislative reform. The Toledo Pact cannot be the shield for you to make and undo your wide. What cannot be done is to be filled with talk of consensus and dialogue and to approve a maternity supplement which represents an important cut in the pension of many mothers and which does not even raise its debate in the Toledo Pact Commission. These days the unions have left - once you passed the royal decree - also complaining about the maternity supplement. The day after you passed the royal decree in the Council of Ministers, UGT considers that the maternity supplement to pensions is clearly improveable. Workers' Commissions said that this maternity supplement had forgotten about the voluntary retirement of the Passive Classes and then, once they wanted to take this photo to formalize the agreement, the unions ask that the maternity supplement be treated as a law to improve it, to correct some shortcomings. [[Shows three documents]] This is the agreement you have reached at the Social Dialogue Bureau: correcting shortcomings and not even with the clear and closed agreement of the social dialogue forces. Caller, Minister. We cannot forget that the gender gap in pensions is the result of the gender pay gap between men and women, Minister, not like you, who in your initial intervention tried to show that it is between women and women below, that this is what you like. It's the gender gap between men and women. That's what needs to be corrected here. Together with the abandonment of professional careers and lower wages, these are the main factors that have led to the fall in women's pensions compared to men. Fortunately, these gender differences in the labour market have been significantly reduced in recent decades, although it is true that we must continue to implement public policies to make them disappear. As a result, the gender gap in pensions can be progressively reduced, but the gap can only be eliminated if full equality between men and women is achieved. Ladies and gentlemen, from the People's Party we share the need to combat the gender gap in pensions. We were the pioneers, the People's Party was a pioneer in recognizing women's efforts and compensating for the fee gaps that many mothers suffered after the birth of their children. In 2016, the Government of the People's Party approved for the first time a maternity supplement to pensions that will increase women's pension by 5% for two children, by 10% for three children and by 15% for four children, resulting in hundreds of thousands of women seeing their pension justly increased and a marked reduction in the gender gap in pensions. It is true, and it must be recognized, that as a result of the already... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-18-CD210218.u36	Excuse me. Please, be quiet. [[Pause]] Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-18-CD210218.u37	It is true that, as a result of the well-known judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union, it was necessary to quantify this addition, but since then, more than a year ago, Minister, you could have brought a bill here, negotiated it and agreed it and not used the actual decree-law, with which we do not agree either in form or substance. Do not get used to negotiating and working with the royal decree-law to try to impose their positions. One of the most relevant features of this new complement is that mothers with one child can also perceive it and we agree on that. Moreover, the People's Party also had it on its electoral agenda, so we could agree on this part. However, we cannot overlook the fact that this new supplement to pensions is also an economic disadvantage for a large number of working mothers who see their pension cut significantly with the entry into force of this measure. This cut, Minister, can reach up to 70% reduction in the maternity supplement according to the number of children and the contribution base. You propose a fixed and linear supplement of 27 euros per child per month and is given to all women who are entitled to a contributory pension without valuing either the years of work or the years assessed or the amount of their contribution. For example, a mother with two children, with an average pension of 1100 euros - I don't think anyone in this Chamber can say that a pension of 1100 euros is of millionaire people - would already be penalised with her maternity supplement. If this mother has a pension of 1100 euros and three children, with her supplement she would have 400 euros less annual pension. If that mother of 1100 euros had four children, you will cut 800 euros a year, Mr Escrivá. And in the case of a pensioner with two children and an average pension of 1500 euros, of which they are now beginning to be average pensions of the new mothers who enter to receive retirement, you would start to cut 300 euros a year, Mr Escrivá. Is this what we want to promote with the reduction of the gender gap? So are we going to make progress in narrowing the gender gap, when all you do is cut off the mothers who have contributed the most, both in contributions and in demographic contributions to the pension system, to pension contributions, the ones who are providing the most contributors for the future to our Public Pension System? Ladies and gentlemen, the addition we approved in 2016 could mean an increase of between EUR 1700 and EUR 5600 for a family, depending on their contributions. With its current model, 1512 euros. That is, of the maximum contribution of 1512 that you make of maternity supplement to the 5600 that could be contributed with the supplement of 2016. Is that what you mean when you say there are no cuts? Is that what you call redistributive? Is that what you call a contributor, Minister? Do you consider that with the same budget that has the previous maternity supplement you can reach all women by increasing the 30,000 mothers with a child? Is that how we're going to move forward in narrowing the gender gap in pensions? No, Minister, that is your model, but that is not the model of the People's Party. [[Applauds]] The new complement is clearly in conflict with the principle of contributoryness, Minister, we have told you, and you know very well that for the People's Party the principle of contributoryness is basic throughout the system. Moreover, it is obvious, but not because I am going to stop repeating it, that the contribution means that everyone is going to receive a pension in the future according to their contributions to the system, so whoever more and more paid to the system will receive higher pensions, so it is not fair for women who have contributed work and demographically to the country to punish them, because it is not fair to penalise the effort, Minister. And the new wording that you make contradicts Recommendation 11 of the Toledo Pact, which refers to the contribution, since, unlike the previous system, it is now exempt from the contribution made, despite the fact that it is stipulated in Article 60(3) that the supplement will have to all defects the legal nature of public contribution pension, Minister. This is what you say and it is not true, as you introduce into contributory pensions an improper element of equality, fixed and unique complement, without taking into account the various contributions to social security throughout the working life. And if you justify this assault by saying that it is about redistributing income, as you have already done, Mr Escrivá, we will tell you that there are other mechanisms for that but not the public pension system. Don't do experiments, Mr. Escriva. I'm closing up. It's a good thing they weren't leaving anyone behind. It's hard to leave anyone behind when we're in line; you're right about that. In January 2021 he announced cuts. In February 2021 he carried out the first cut, Minister. Let us hope that it will not continue to bring further cuts to this House because, as you well know, the Toledo Pact has not accepted them. You have started with mothers - nothing less - for women, and you will tell me, Mr Escrivá, that it is a technical adjustment, that Spain was awaiting the execution of the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union. It is true that this sentence obliged us to readapt regulations, but this is not the one we needed. And I could have executed it in a thousand ways, but they have chosen the one that cuts women's rights at the worst time.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-18-CD210218.u38	Your Honor, you must finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-18-CD210218.u39	In conclusion, Mr President. You know that Europe calls for pension reforms, but it calls for consensus on pension reform. You bring us a royal decree without consensus either with the parliamentary groups or with the Toledo Pact. This is not the way, Minister. And if you really want to keep working and fulfill what you've ordered in component 30, that's not the attitude. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-18-CD210218.u40	Minister, would you like to take the floor?
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-18-CD210218.u41	I prefer to intervene at the end.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-18-CD210218.u42	We're moving on to position-fixing. Mrs Oramas González-Moro first spoke by the Joint Parliamentary Group. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-18-CD210218.u43	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, minimum living income cannot be an impossible right for hundreds of thousands of people. We are happy with the modifications, but they are very late and not enough. Lack of personnel, Leonian conditions and telematics-only management have deepened social exclusion. You will know that 90% of the people to whom the service is directed have no computer equipment, no connection or knowledge for such a complicated management that they have not been able to solve the digital divide. With the initial conditions the benefit has been refused to most of the applications, they carry six modifications with chaotic management. Will the refused dossiers, Minister, be set up and resolved ex officio, or are we going to have people re-submit it without increasing the numbers, or will it be communicated ex officio, at least to those who submitted it and who are now resolved? This turn to the beginning, will it be with the same staff you have today? I'm going to put the Canary Islands case, almost 90,000 applications. Of the 90,000 applications in the Canary Islands, only 7900 have been resolved - I am speaking on 16 December - and have been in favour of 3,500, up-to-date and written data. With regard to the social exclusion data for the Canary Islands, a hearing in the Parliament of the Canary Islands a week ago said that in Las Palmas the food bank has served 200 000 people and in Santa Cruz de Tenerife 125,000; we are talking about 325 000. The figure for people at risk of poverty is 2019, before the pandemic, and was 28.5% of the population. Minister, did you know that a person to process his retirement, as they don't give him an appointment in Tenerife, has to take a plane because the only place where he is given an appointment is in El Hierro? I'm telling you so I know. In the area of pensions, we believe that it has ignored the agreement, the consensus, that this did not have to come in a decree, that it had to be separated as a bill and that it had been discussed in the Toledo Pact. Of course, we cannot agree with the formula you have chosen. As for the occupational disease of the health care workers, at good hours green sleeves! A year later. It has been repeatedly requested here. We hope that, within the time frame of amendments, Minister, we will be able to resolve accessibility - as I told you six months ago in your office - the municipalities are a fundamental element of the new applicants - but, of course, we are going to demand that those who were refused and met the requirements be reviewed on their own initiative. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-18-CD210218.u44	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Next, Mr Botran Pahissa has the floor for the same parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-18-CD210218.u45	Thank you, President. Speaking of the demonstrations that took place yesterday, I will pull out of an old Chinese proverb that says that when a finger points to the moon, fools only look at the finger. Ask yourself why so many demonstrations are taking place, why so many young people are going to demonstrations that ended with clashes with the police; ask yourself for the basic reasons that have to do with the threat to freedom of expression and that have to do with the harsh socio-economic conditions of the youth - 40% youth unemployment - and ask yourself, already put, if you want to be a little more self-demanding, what responsibility the police have in these riots. [[rumors]] [[Rumors]] In concrete devices, such as yesterday's at the Sun Gate, they have much to do with how these manifestations end. [[Strong Rumors]] And don't scream, don't scream, ask yourself and be a little bit more self-demanding. [[Applauds]] Look what happened yesterday and look at what the police are responsible for. [[Several Members: Out!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-18-CD210218.u46	Ladies and gentlemen, please let the speaker conclude his speech.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-18-CD210218.u47	On this point, we are in favour of this specific measure in the area of pensions, and that is why we would like to point out once again that they are at the forefront of the counter-reforms that the European Union wants to demand from the Spanish State, which in this case will always have our strong opposition and that of the pensioner movement, both in the increase in the basis of calculation - from twenty-five to thirty-five years, which you suggested at meetings of the ministry, Minister - and in any change in the revaluation indicators other than the CPI, the index of consumer prices, or in the empowerment of private business pensions, which is the first step to the Austrian backpack. There is money for pensions and more would have been if the pension hedge had not been emptied for other uses. That is why, on more than one occasion, we have called for an audit. As for minimum living income, we are also in favour of the measures being taken, but I would like to remind you once again that precisely the problems of leaving people out of minimum living income, which are the same as the guaranteed income of citizens in Catalonia, are resolved with universality. Of course, a universal basic income would require much more income and that would require a thorough tax reform, which is not precisely the direction the Government has taken, since it ruled out, for example, a wealth tax or a COVID rate. Finally - I have little time - I would like to thank the ministry team that has gathered the spokespersons to explain the content of the decree. I would like to point out that the Government's commitments to the Managing Authorities that they agreed on more than one occasion to renew the state of alarm or to vote on budgets must be fulfilled. They have not, and I understand that this is going to mean some negative votes for them today. Especially for that reason, we will abstain. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-18-CD210218.u48	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] The next item is Mrs Pozueta Fernández, on behalf of the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-18-CD210218.u49	Mr. President, Mr. Guztioi. The decree to which we are referring at this time raises new changes and regulations of the previous laws. It affects very diverse subjects and areas and we will not deny any of them importance. With regard to minimum living income, the general provisions recognize the need to improve certain aspects in order to cover the greatest number of persons and to include certain situations that are not currently covered or do not have an operation that allows them to be incorporated directly into the benefit. We are in favour of the content of these reforms because it involves more people in vulnerable situations, but we do not share the forms. Once again we are dealing with a fait accompli, without taking into account the competences which the Community of Navarre and the Basque Autonomous Community have in this field. To impose on social services participation in order to be able to certify the existence of particular situations is not the best way. We believe that, in advance, the most effective mechanisms for carrying out this process from the point of view of competence should be discussed and agreed upon. We advocate through the pact with both the Government of Navarre and the Basque Government on this subject, as reflected in the fifth additional provision of Royal Decree 20/2020 of 29 May. That is why we ask both the Spanish Government and the Basque and Navarro Government, from the point of view of our self-government, to dialogue and seek the formula for making these measures effective. By the way, above and beyond agreements between governments, they prioritize and agree on the best formula, the best guarantee, the most effective and the most agile, so that these people can access these new complements without further delay. This is your duty. Do it. Royal Decree-Law 3/2021 amends article 60 of the General Social Security Act, which regulated maternity supplementation in contributory pensions. The reason or excuse for this change is the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union of 12 December 2019. In our assessment of the fundamental changes it poses we see positive that it is copper from the first child and, moreover, that it is a linear rise. In principle it can be positive, as it favours lower pensions, but it would also bring about some change. What we believe to be serious about this supplement is the argument raised in the explanatory memorandum, paragraph I, third paragraph. I open quotes: 'The need to proceed with its redefinition offers the opportunity to make it an effective tool in reducing the gender gap in pensions'. I close quotes. According to Social Security data as at 31 December 2020, the gender gap in the average retirement pension is 561 euros less for women in Nafarroa, 648 euros less for women in the Basque Autonomous Community and 451 euros less for all women pensioners in the State. The annual gap would be these amounts multiplied by fourteen pay ments, which means that women pensioners in Navarre are paid 7854 euros less, women pensioners in the Basque Autonomous Community are paid 9072 euros less and women pensioners in the whole State, 6314 euros less. The gender gap in pensions is the result not only of maternity and care work, but is due to the greater precariousness of working women, the greater part-time employment in a non-voluntary manner and less wages. It is clear that the gender gap at the wage level has a reflection on pensions. All this requires structural measures to overcome the gender gap, both in pensions and in wages. Thus, we propose a minimum pension of 1080 euros for all and for all, an inter-professional minimum wage of 1200 euros and repeal of the 2011 and 2013 pension reforms, which set out measures that are particularly detrimental to women's pensions in their own right. Also measures in the field of work, how to reduce part-time recruitment of women. 28.5 per cent of women working in the fourth quarter of 2019 did so on a part-time basis and 68 per cent of these jobs were occupied by women, preventing them from reaching high-voltage rates. It is also carried out involuntaryly, because it is not able to access a full-time job or because it is not able to afford the care of sick, disabled or elderly adults. In addition to fighting the submerged economy, where women predominate, preventing them from accessing pensions or limiting them in terms of their size. In short, the supplement to Royal Decree-Law 3/2021 is a very limited measure that will not mean a solution to the gender gap in pensions, which requires structural measures to dignify public pensions that this decree does not contain. Therefore, taking into account also the small advances and improvements that can be made for certain groups in the maternity supplement in contributory pensions, as well as in the non-contributory benefits of minimum living income, we will abstain by allowing them to be processed. We will vote in favour of processing as a bill to improve it, just as we will continue to work to end structurally the injustice that women pensioners still suffer. Mila esker.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-18-CD210218.u50	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Barandiaran Benito has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-18-CD210218.u51	Egun on. Good morning, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. We see ourselves to meet a new royal decree-law that, issued on the occasion of the pandemic situation, contains measures of different nature, many of them - almost all - positive. Some are reasonably placed in an area of exceptionality, and others are not, curiously, the ones who raise some kind of objection on our part, since the legislator should have dealt with them in a different way, through an ordinary procedure. I am talking about the provisions contained in this Royal Decree-Law 3/2021 and regulated in Articles 1, 2 and 3. But we must also address other issues which, as I have said, are covered by some characteristic which makes their regulation necessary as a result of the extraordinary or urgent situation and which we welcome or support. These are those relating to the modification of the extraordinary termination benefit for self-employed workers; those relating to the compatibility of the retirement pension with the appointment as statutory staff of health professionals under the state of alarm; those relating to the recognition - I would like to make special mention of this issue - of the occupational sickness benefits for staff of health and social health centres who have contracted SARS-CoV-2 in the exercise of their profession; those relating to the extension of the period of application and duration of moratoriums and suspensions; and to the right of the Institute of Official Credit to obtain individual information by credit rating companies of the Bank of Spain, as a result of European requirements. However - I repeat again, Minister - it is the two star measures contained in Articles 1, 2 and 3 which, from our point of view, should have been dealt with under a formula of legislative initiative different from that of the Royal Decree-Law, because their regulation lacks that attribute of extraordinary and urgent. With regard to the measures to reduce the gender gap, which we share, we should point out that, as you have already pointed out, it is a legislative initiative made up, in part, of the recommendations of the Toledo Pact and that, therefore, in accordance with these recommendations, its initiative should have been known by the Toledo Pact itself in order to be able to be analysed. We do not disagree with the measure that it is from the first child when the corresponding benefit can be paid and, of course, we do not need to make any further clarifications regarding the decree-law itself, but we do want to state that we are not very clear that the criterion of legal certainty to which it seeks to comply with the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union of 12 December 2019 will be guaranteed by that formula. In other words, the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union refers to the fact that discrimination would not occur when different rules are offered for equal situations or when equal rules are offered for different situations. This path has not been very successful technically, although we understand that it was because of the need to approve this benefit, which was previously for demographic reasons and is now for maternity or linked to the number of children, to a new formula, which, with all due respect, we believe is clearly better. On the other issue, the regulation of minimum living income, Minister, you know that this is our main element of discrepancy. We come to this House for the fifth time to observe the regulation of a necessary benefit - we cannot understand it in any other way - regulated not only in the Royal Decree-Law 20/2020, but also in the 25/2020, 28/2020, 30/2020 and 35/2020, whose presentation is currently pending the completion of the amendment phase, and whose delay, in our view, is also due to the lack of interest of the parties that make up the Government, who could have dealt with this issue and should have pushed it to become known. Instead, we are faced with the treatment, as an extraordinary and urgent formula, of an excessively important matter and for which - let me say - I was surprised in your intervention. You know that in this matter we have our own model. You also know that Royal Decree 20/2020 envisages a specific date for the transfer - not for the start of negotiations, but for the transfer - but, in the end, it is the content of the actual decree-law itself that has frightened us, both in the definition of some issues relating to the core of coexistence with which we can agree but which must be regulated or known beforehand by the autonomous communities that have to apply them, and, above all, in the determination that some entities, in the formation of their willingness to participate, are also taken into account in the context of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country, through precisely a proper register that exists in this community, but before which you propose an alternative, which is overlapping. Well, Minister, we cannot agree with that normative pre-determination, let alone the phrase, with which you have left me absolutely petrified, with which you justify it. It says: The social services of this country are not dimensioned to assume the management of the minimum living income, so we have had to incorporate the entities of the third social action sector. No, Minister, this is not true in the case of Euskadi. In this case, you have superimposed your own vision of the subject to overlap with the competences of the Basque Country and incur a flagrant invasion of competition that we cannot bless. This is the question on which, as you know, we are obliged to vote, not on the other subjects, with which we are mostly in agreement. With this conformation that has been made of the procedure, not only can we not agree, but it forces us, for the first time in a long time, to take the opposite, not only to the Government, but to you, Minister, to whom I really say that we have a special appreciation and that we believe that you are doing good management, but not on this issue of minimum living income. I am sorry, Minister, but on this occasion we will have to vote no. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-18-CD210218.u52	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Giménez Giménez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-18-CD210218.u53	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, today, again, we are debating here a decree that really comes to this House without time or sufficient work on the part of the government. Before voting on it, I would have liked to have agreed more deeply on it, taking into account both the minister's and his working party's good attitude, in order to try to find solutions that have not been sufficient in this case. I want to mention the People's Party when we talk about one of the contents of this decree in relation to pensions, and it is that the model they offered in 2016 in this matter is not a good model either. I want to make it clear that this model leaves behind women who have only one child and leaves behind and penalizes women who have lower pensions, so the model that we from our parliamentary group are not defending is also its model, which is not an appropriate model in terms of pensions and gender gaps. [[Applauds]] In addition, I believe that the decree and the legislative technique that has been used includes a number of subjects with which this Government and this House are well aware that we fully agree, because they are subjects that we have been asking for. For example, the access of self-employed persons taxing by modules to the provision of cessation of activity, the compatibility of wages with 100 per cent of the pension for retired health-care workers who are exceptionally integrated into the activity to cope with the crisis of COVID, the recognition of the drop by COVID of health-care and social-health personnel as a professional disease and the improvement of the minimum living income, which must really reach the recipients. In this sense, I also make the invitation that we have already made in previous weeks: let us improve the flow of minimum living income by recognizing all those families that are already collecting minimum income. We already have a successful process of recognition of situations of poverty and precariousness. All these subjects are clearly shared. Now, what is happening in this proposal? That groups such as Citizens, which we have been asking for this type of work for a long time, force us to renounce these demands or to renounce that all working mothers benefit from pensions. All working mothers, Your Honor, without any exclusion! [[Applauds]] We are not prepared to do that, ladies and gentlemen. He has already announced that, if you want a good royal decree, here you have our hand to negotiate it, so that we work in depth; hand spread to improve it, but not help you with the roller you want to go through the whole opposition. They take advantage of a figure such as the royal decree-law to address issues that require a calm debate and a broad consensus - calm and broad -, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]] That's what we want when we talk about the gender gap and pensions. I therefore believe that the matter we are working on does not deserve to be rushed. On some issues we are tired of rushing into legislative technical formulas that are not suitable for certain subjects. Let us be responsible for parliamentary work and do it right, and that is where they will find us. We agree, as I said to you, on this compatibility of pensions - I would like to stress this - in all those matters that I have made clear, and also in the area of the gender gap. And here I also want to say that when we talk about the gender gap we have to take into account another number of issues: the precarious work of women, the partial work they face, the difficulty of those who are in a situation of greater vulnerability... In other words, the gender gap in this area has another part of the work that we have perhaps talked little about in this House. Let's go to the bottom of the matter, why it then translates into this pure and harsh gender inequality in women in terms of working conditions, difficulties in reaching positions of maximum responsibility and, above all, this added difficulty of those who are in a situation of greater vulnerability. We clearly agree with that approach to the gender gap, but we do not want to penalize any women, we do not want to penalize any working mothers. We are fully in line with the application of the supplement to women with one child. Of course I do! That is why I say that the proposal made at the time by the People's Party on equality criteria is not a proposal that I like; I like the proposal to incorporate women with one child, but we are not in line with the proposal that is being brought, because it harms middle-income women with more than two children. That is, from 1080 euros of contribution base women with two or more children are being harmed. Let's think about what it means for a woman's career to have more than two children, what it means for senior executives to have more than two children, how they have to reconcile and how they have to develop their own co-responsibility. What do we have to do, penalize? I do not think that this should be penalised, but rather for working on an equal footing in an integral way, for encouraging and encouraging women who are in vulnerable situations, with low incomes and with only one child, but also those women who strive, who work, who develop their professional career, who have more than two children and who at no time have to be harmed by a decision-making process. Let us increase the budget line, which is what needs to be done in these cases; we really bet, but not for some women at the expense of others, nor much less, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]] So, here's what we're going to do is reach out. Let us work well; I invite you to work well on this proposal, you have our hand there to do so. If this decree does not come out, bring the rest of the materials also, because I agree in that urgency with the rest of the materials that do deserve this form of decree-law. That's the position they're going to find us in, that's the way we want to work. Once again, I would like to insist on this: hand-out, consensus and let us do everything responsibly so that this House can actually vote in favour of its initiatives. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-18-CD210218.u54	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Rego Candaimil has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-18-CD210218.u55	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Minister, we will support you even if you do not convince us too much, because, as on other occasions, we agree on the reasons they claim to justify a rule, but we disagree on how they resolve it. It is clear that the gender gap must be narrowed down to the end of pensions too, although the formula used is more questionable, to begin with, because if we agree that one of the reasons for this gap is the role of caregiver that many women historically had to assume, we must also know that in many cases - at least in my country, where the extended family was common - that role was conditioned not only by the care of children, but also of parents, uncles or other relatives. The gender gap in Galicia is also conditioned by the fact that, in the rural world, only the holder of the exploitation, always or almost always man, contributed to agricultural social security. Therefore, child compensation does not resolve all cases. To this we must add the existence of other gaps such as the national or territorial one, which they seem never to take into account. Galicia has the second lowest pensions in the state, even below 1000 euros. Ourense is the province with the lowest pension, 818 euros; attention, 547 euros less than Madrid. Raising the minimum pensions to match the SMI, as proposed by the BNG, would have the simultaneous effect of narrowing the territorial gap and, at the same time, the gender gap. For us, this is the way. Finished. We regret that this decree does not yet resolve the ineffectiveness of the minimum living income and the unjustified exclusion of certain groups or that they leave out of the consideration of occupational disease to numerous groups in the socio-health and care field, such as that of the Non-Fire Aid Service or ambulances, which we find unwarranted and we ask you to rectify. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-18-CD210218.u56	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Next, Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor for the same parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-18-CD210218.u57	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Of course we condemn violence to defend some ideas. Of course we condemn the wreckage to kiosks, to shops, to private individuals, to urban furniture. Of course, we condemn the assaults on the police, because we also believe that a few entrepreneurs distort the peaceful and legitimate protest of so many people. But we also condemn the unnecessary and free police charges against people who manifest peacefully, as happened yesterday in Valencia. Many clothes have been torn here, but we are still waiting for the clothes to be torn when it has been said here that some military wanted to shoot twenty-six million people and a Member here said 'they were ours'. That's embarrassing! That's embarrassing! You don't tear your clothes here. [[Applauds]] I believe that if there is a moment when the real decrees make sense, it is precisely this, Minister, in the pandemic that forces us to make quick decisions or, in this case, to rectify to improve. I, as a teacher, know that correcting is wise. We announce our favorable vote, as we have done in all the royal decrees; any progress, any improvement is always better than not making any. In the minimum living income there were absolutely Kafkian situations for people who needed it and who could process their request, just the most vulnerable, those who live on the street, those who have no domicile. We believe that it is a good step to seek the cooperation of the social partners in the third sector. But, Minister, I believe that you have made a bold statement - the PNV spokesman reminded you - and that is that the social services are not prepared. The social services of the municipalities or the autonomous communities are prepared, we could have done so. Probably, who was unprepared was his own ministry; probably. But, anyway, as our relationship is good, we can accept the exchange; probably. And I finish with a plea, with a petition. I know that you are not a minister of health, but on Tuesday, in the Council of Ministers, please do so. The Valencians are 10.6% of the citizens, the vaccines that reach us are 8.3 -2.3 below the population weight - and what we have put 92% of the vaccines, we are good vaccinators. Please tell the minister: clear criteria and fairness to avoid misinterpretation. Thank you very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-18-CD210218.u58	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] The next item is Mr Boadella Esteve.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-18-CD210218.u59	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, the truth is that the royal decree in question came out in the headlines as the royal decree to narrow the gender gap in pensions, but in this royal decree there is the issue of the gender gap in pensions, there is the minimum living income, there is the consideration of professional disease of COVID for health professionals and there are a few extras. Some fellow Members have been told about this, because it is true that the measure of the royal decree-law to deal with all those issues that are urgent to you, in a mixture of unprecedented issues, I sincerely believe that it is not a good legislative technique for legal certainty. The issue of the pension gap, it is true, stems from the doctrine of the Court of Justice of the European Union, a necessary but improveable change. And I do not say this, as the unions say, as the recommendations of the Toledo Pact say, which we believe do not follow the line of reform and, ultimately, for such an easy question to understand how this formula of changing the so much percent by a bit raised. If we take this to the practical example, a pension of 2000 euros and three children before meant a supplement of 200 euros and now a supplement of 81 euros. Therefore, this reform, which implies the loss of this purchasing capacity, is still curious. Entering into the other contents of the royal decree, as I said, is the minimum vital income; a minimum vital income approved by royal decree-law on May 20, 2020 and which is still pending to be processed as a bill for parliamentary groups to try to introduce some of their amendments that surely point to the modifications and improvements that you have been making in the five royal decrees before. Perhaps, if they were to proceed as a bill, many of these improvements could be resolved with much more speed or plurality than with a real automatic decree. In short, there are issues in this royal decree-law that we, of course, support. We agree with the great outline and the great contents, but the form or approach that has been brought in this royal decree-law does not allow us to give you the favorable vote. If we ask him to be treated as a bill, especially because what is collected in relation to the consideration of VOCID's occupational disease for the healthcare professional is born of a non-law proposal from this group and, therefore, we believe that there are issues to be addressed and that we need to raise to the rank of law as soon as possible, but we think that this is not the best way to do so. We therefore request that you understand the need to treat it as a bill, so that many of the improvements that the groups want to make and that have been raised since previous royal decrees-laws can be incorporated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-18-CD210218.u60	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Salvador i Duch has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-18-CD210218.u61	Thank you, President. Good morning, everybody. Minister, the real decree-law we are dealing with is the one on measures to reduce the gender gap in social security. This is therefore a necessary and urgent aspect to reform, correct, which has been defended repeatedly by my colleagues and myself in the work of the Toledo Pact Commission, where we have even gone a little further with a particular vote. However, the way in which this has been done is not necessary. We find different sections that can be improved and, as is customary, numerous reforms that have nothing to do with the supposed object of the norm. What does this mean? That the real decree-law is used many times and they get very good things and others that are not so good, with which you have to choose and you have a moral dilemma, and that is not entirely correct. We can understand that when it was done in July it was urgent and we voted in favour, but eight months later, the work could be a little more elaborate, we think. This way of working is leading you to be tightening the rope a lot and you can break it sooner than later if this continues like this. In fact, today it will be ready and, until the last moment, for penalties you can decide whether to go one side or another. We have to change things. For example, today that you are here, I would like to take this opportunity to say that when the individual votes on the Toledo Pact were cast, there were only seven minutes to defend them, without the right to reply, in a debate that contributors and pensioners had the right to see in open time after eleven years, because it was the first one to do so. There are very important things that need to be improved in the forms. We talk about ways primarily and there I'm going to focus. With regard to the paragraphs that can be improved - of the others, I am not going to say anything - there are several, above all there is a matter which is important about amendments to the procedure for the recognition of the right, which are clearly not applicable. There are things that are put here about minimum living income that are not applicable. On the many families, we also agree that it is not fair, as other colleagues have already explained, but how we are going to deal with it as a bill, we can work on it, it is not a matter of which, for the moment, we are making a flag. Yes, it is important, as I said before, that eight months later a huge amount of bureaucratic requirements are introduced that remove the minimum vital income from your goal: to have an impact of salvation on the lives of those who have less. We know this because we have had difficulties in basic income and I think it is important to consult with those with whom we have this competence, such as the case of the Basque Country or the Basque Country, so that they do not repeat our own mistakes that we have detected over time, since we have experience in this matter. For example, municipalities continue to be burdened with an inexhaustible processing responsibility, without being economically compensated for the costs and efforts they inevitably have to make. It's just that you don't talk to the mayors, you're transferring a problem to them of dimensions you can't imagine. I think you can go this way. They extend the time limits of resolution from three to six months and keep the administrative silence negative; that is, people will have to wait until half a year - people who are in the last - to know if they have this right and if the Administration fails to fulfil their obligations will be harmed by the denial of the request. At the same time, they expose people to having to return large amounts of money by not putting forward a formula of coordination with guaranteed income to the autonomous communities, which is causing that when by mistake someone misrepresents the minimum living income, he or she is required to return insurmountable amounts in the amount of thousands and thousands of euros. It separates the territorial administrations from the monitoring of the implementation of income, when they know perfectly well that it is an autonomous competence. That is, after we have always stood by him in the validation of real decree-laws of importance, such as minimum income It is vital, considering that one of the covenants of the General Budgets of the State is the convention, we think that the convention already had to be made and presented before the actual decree-law. It is important that this be completed to comply with the covenants because it provides credibility to the system. Finally, as I said earlier, it is still marginalised, according to our view and taking into account that it is a socialist government, to the trade unions and to the associative fabric of the third sector of Catalonia. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-18-CD210218.u62	One moment, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-18-CD210218.u63	Yeah, there are people who don't care much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-18-CD210218.u64	One second. Please, can you keep quiet?
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-18-CD210218.u65	As he said - and more so from the Socialist Party - trade unions, associations and the third sector of Catalonia are marginalized in the management of this income. As you know, this Royal Decree provides that certain social entities will have an accreditation role in certifying compliance with requirements, but it turns out that only state-level entities can perform this function and that they also have direct points of attention in all autonomous communities and cities. They continue to preach a plurinational State that, more than once, does not correspond to its political practice. It's over, ladies and gentlemen. As you know, one of the commitments the Government has made to the negotiation of the State's General Budgets - and I want to focus on that because that is why our parliamentary group gave its support - was the subject of the convention. Well, fifteen days ago, in the last plenary session, I told them that the credit was running out. I told you again that thank you for counting on us to talk about it and I told you that this is not moving forward. And yesterday, running, we passed twenty-four hours before the documents. I think this system could be greatly improved because the rope can be broken. And as many Members have referred to the subject of Pablo Hasel, I would like to make only a couple of assessments. There are many types of violence, not only is there a violence that is the most seen, throwing stones and all this. There's more violence. For example, it's also violence that someone can be imprisoned because a movie or a song or a play or anything about violence or things they don't like. In fact, I don't like Pablo Hasel. Even as an activist, I find him a bad activist, I don't like anything. But we're talking about the field of fiction. I don't like Rambo movies that kill Vietnamese at the tip of the blade, either, but I don't take it as something that's not fiction. What is not fictional is a speech in which someone, for example, says that the Jewish problem is the most important one. That's another thing, we're not in the fiction field. It seems to me that you must also understand indignation at certain types of structural violence in which you sometimes just look - as my colleague said - at the tip of your finger when we are pointing at the moon. There are structural things that create great indignation and, unlike many European countries, for a subject of fiction - I repeat, of fiction, which must be differentiated - no one has to go to jail. And if someone goes to jail for that kind of trouble it's that maybe the law fails, the judicial system fails many things at once. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-18-CD210218.u66	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Saavedra Muñoz has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos - Galicia in common.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-18-CD210218.u67	Thank you, President. Good morning. Before entering into this matter, in Unity We can show our solidarity with the people who have manifested themselves peacefully these days in defense of freedom of expression. Episodes like those of these days have never had to occur in our country, there should be no law gags or people imprisoned for crimes of opinion. [[Applauds]] The first part of this royal decree responds to the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union of December 2019, which ruled that the maternity supplement established by the People's Party in 2015 is contrary to the European Equality Directive. This ruling revealed a misconfiguration of this complement. So we have already denounced - and also the trade union organizations - their legal limitations, their erroneous political orientation by avoiding mentioning the gender gap for ideological reasons - we suppose -, presenting the complement as a measure of promotion of birth under the label of demographic contribution. This was precisely the legal argument of the European Court, annulling this supplement because it did not include men in this intended demographic contribution. The gender gap in pensions, which is dramatic, responds to the historical and structural discrimination of women in the labour market, inter alia, because of the role of childcare providers. Motherhood has a decisive impact on women's career and is one of the causes of this gap. Public policies are essential to change this. The current reform is limited by the nature of the original supplement and the need to comply with the judgment, but it is a step in the right direction: it reorients the meaning of the supplement, now yes, to the fight against the gender gap; it increases the amount and reinforces its redistributive dimension by establishing a fixed amount, benefiting minimum pension earners; it expands coverage and 22 % more women will receive this supplement, among others, those with only one child. For the United Nations Podemos this is a positive and complementary step for many others to take today to avoid the gender gap in future pensions. Measures are urgently needed in terms of working conditions, such as continuing with the repeal of the labour reform initiated by this Government, which has already prohibited dismissal for justified absences, which penalizes women who care for family members in particular; promoting reconciliation and co-responsibility, because care must be shared between men and women and taken over socially, and equal pay for men and women. This Government has put in place measures to achieve this. There is a need to combat job insecurity, as women suffer the most, and decent wages are urgently needed; it is essential to continue to make progress towards a sufficient inter-professional minimum wage, up to 60% of the average wage, as required by the European Social Charter, and to be revalued annually, which will benefit, above all, the most precarious women workers and their future pensions. We must ensure decent pensions, all of them, also non-contributory pensions, and minimum pensions. These are urgent issues that are in the government agreement and on which this government is undoubtedly going to move forward in this legislature. [[The lady]] In addition, this royal decree introduces improvements in minimum living income, expediting its processing and eliminating exclusions that prevented access to many people. Minimum income is a new social right essential and effective tool against social vulnerability, but we are well aware that it is not reaching out to all people who need it. This is a matter of great concern to us and we therefore welcome the fact that this royal decree addresses this problem. Since the emergence of this resource, improvements have been made in its processing, we have linked some of them to the budget agreement. And this very week, União Podemos has recorded twelve amendments to the processing of the law regulating minimum income, and we will continue to work to adjust to the maximum the procedure of this recourse to the social reality of our country and expand its coverage. The vital minimum income - as declared by international agencies - is fundamental to combating the inequality and poverty that already existed in our country and that have worsened with the pandemic. On the other hand, this royal decree-law recognizes the COVID-19 of health personnel as a professional disease, a measure of justice that we have been claiming since the beginning of the Pandemic. Health personnel, in the front line, are putting their health at risk to take care of ours, sometimes in precarious conditions after years of cuts in public health. And the last measure of this royal decree-law is the extension of mortgage and consumer credit moratoriums to families and self-employed to extend the social shield of those who are suffering most from this crisis. In conclusion, UN We can continue to work for this coalition government to respond to the real problems of people at a time of great suffering. While others cry, lie or slander, we and we work hard so that this crisis does not pay for it the usual and to achieve a fair, sustainable recovery with strong public services. We will therefore support this royal decree-law and in its eventual processing as a bill we will make proposals to, if possible, improve it. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-18-CD210218.u68	Thank you very much, Mrs. Saavedra. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Cañizares Pacheco has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-18-CD210218.u69	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, a progressive and feminist government that lowers pensions to women! A feminist government that punishes and penalizes women with more children, the ones that most contribute to ending the demographic winter! And a feminist government that wants to take down the family! [[Applauds]] As Zapatero already did with his 'the exit from this crisis will be social or not', whose result was a tijeretazo to the state of well-being, with a cut in pensions and a drop in public salaries, today, ten years later and according to the Escriva plan, we again attended a cut in pensions, hidden after its perverse ideological construction of gender. [[Applauds]] His decree-law cuts pensions but does not cut the twenty-two ministries and their political waste. And from VOX we said that he would choose between pensions or autonomy, between the welfare of citizens or political waste. You have already chosen, but we will not be accomplices. We have also been warning during these bitter months of crisis and misery for millions of compatriots that their social policies would be to raise taxes - which they have already done without squandering -, to cut pensions and, later, to lower the salaries of civil servants. And, indeed, our predictions have been fulfilled, to the misfortune of the Spaniards. And for greater treason, they bring a real decree-law in four-unit pack, indivisible and regulating measures on matters that have nothing to do with each other, a lethal pack to which we have to say yes or no as a whole, which, on the one hand, cuts pension rights for families and, on the other, affects groups such as health care workers or self-employed people. In the face of this legislative strategy close to blackmail, they propose a disjunctive: if we accept your rule, we consent to an explicit reduction in pensions, and if we reject your lethal fund, you would, first, prevent the recognition of economic benefits for health care workers infected by COVID-19; second, extend the supposed beneficiaries of minimum living income, and third, offer autonomous and SMEs to benefit from moratoria in their payment obligations, the latter issues with which we would agree. Fear or death. And the crossroads before which the citizens are placed with their perverse intention is that of always: to generate confrontation between the Spaniards because, as they have configured their royal decree-law, for you there are first-rate Spaniards and second-rate Spaniards because with this arbitrary and unjust unreason what they give to some is nothing more than what they take from others, and that is their true intention. [[Applauds]] In addition, the norm as a whole contains two elements inherent to its modus operandi: the incompetence and ideological construction of the genre. Incompetence because it presents the sixth amendment to the minimum living income, a rule with eight months in force, a bill in eternal extension for amendments and that could have been improved by driving its processing in Congress with lower economic cost and greater parliamentary agreement without the need for another royal decree-law. [[Applauds]] Minister, there are 850,000 households in which 2.3 million people live and the minimum living income has reached 160 000. Incompetence because it recognizes professional illness for health-care workers infected with COVID and other highly exposed workers, such as State Security Forces and Bodies, we urge it from the VOX Parliamentary Group already in a GNP on April 7, 2020, almost a year ago. [[Applauds]] Incompetence because they condemn the ruin and misery of SMEs and self-employed people, who may continue to be forced to close their bars and shops until the state of alarm ends on 9 May and, in return, offer them a short period of extension of the moratorium in the payment of their financing quotas until 30 March. I would have seen a greater inconsistency! And finally, his star measure: after the perverse ideological construction of the genus hides his intentional cut of the pensions, a cut that begins to draw the future that awaits us with a government to the commands that leads to Spain drifting, to a Spain divided and fractured fruit of its eagerness of power, with policies that face and discriminate, policies that open gaps where there were none and, on this occasion, to cut the pensions to the families; up to 73% cuts. More kids, more cuts. With the new rule, many women with two children will see their pension cut and for a family with three children receiving, for example, a pension of 1100 euros per month, the maternity supplement will be reduced by 406 euros and for a woman with four or more children, the supplement in 798. The large families would have to be rewarded and proposed as a model to society given the collapse of the birth we attended. [[Applauds]] Instead, they are ignored and penalized, perhaps because for you to have many children it is a rich thing or at best it is that the equality minister intends to put these families in charge of her ministry a free nanny to raise the fifth and subsequent child and so you can keep saving for your retirement. [[Applauds]] For you, the important thing is not to save the current precarious demographic situation, but to narrow the so-called gender gap. What, therefore, is your demographic challenge? Finishing life, family and pensions? The survival of a society lies in these numerous families that you abandon and discriminate, which are indispensable for your vital contribution of human capital necessary to bring about an ageing society today. If you really advocated progress and not 'hypocracy' and advocated the prosperity of society, you would do so from the right perspective, which is not the gender perspective, but that of protecting and caring for families with more children, as other European countries do, which you only set as an example when it comes to raising taxes. [[Applauds]] The family, in addition to being the basic cell of society, is the one that guarantees generational relief, and with its anti-birth policies and anti-reproductive laws, as we could see in this House on Tuesday, today having more than four children is only for braves. Our society languishes and crumbles by its ideology, that of social suicide and, Mr Escriva, even reducing all this to questions of social profitability and figures, future pensions, those you start cutting, will be paid by the children of the present and, if you continue along that path, you will undoubtedly end up with gender, but with human gender. Thank you. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European ……]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-18-CD210218.u70	Thank you, Mrs. Cañizares. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, Mrs Valerio Cordero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-18-CD210218.u71	Thank you, President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group to establish a position on the validation of Royal Decree-Law 3/2021 of 2 February, adopting measures for the reduction of the gender gap and other matters in the fields of social and economic security. I am already telling you, as it could not be otherwise, that my group will vote in favour of the validation of this royal decree-law, the general lines of which have already been set out by the Minister for Inclusion, Social Security and Migration. I would like to thank the parliamentary groups which have announced this and which have preceded me in the use of the floor, which have expressed their support for this royal decree-law. With their vote they contribute to making our society more dignified and fairer. It also regretted that a measure of the scope of the initiative we are debating today does not have the support of those groups that voted against. I have listened carefully to your arguments, but without accrediting you, I tell you that I think you're wrong. With regard to those who have decided to abstain, I would like to thank them for making it possible to validate this rule, which will subsequently be dealt with as a draft law. We must be aware of the so complicated situation that millions of Spanish families are going through and the need for public policies such as those contained in this royal decree-law. With regard to the intervention of the spokesman for VOX, I prefer not to say anything, because the volume of improvisations and misappropriations is so high that it seems simply unqualified to me. [[applause]] But I do want to make some comment on the intervention of the spokesman for the People's Party. I remind the People's Party, in its opposition to the validation of this royal decree-law, specifically to the reform of article 60 of the consolidated text of the General Law on Social Security, which is the result of the design you made during your government, which came into force on 1 January 2016. It, by the way, recognized only a maternity supplement for mothers who had two or more children as compensation for their demographic contribution to the Social Security System. And they were pioneers, but it turns out that the Court of Justice of the European Union, in a judgment of 12 December 2019, said that this regulation was discriminatory for parents. So we had to give a solution to this problem, because a great deal of legal uncertainty was being generated. It was essential to regulate clearly and that the complement also continue to help narrow the pension gap between men and women. With regard to the criticism of the failure of the principle of contribution, he pointed out that, although it was considered a contributory benefit of the system, it made it very clear that it would be financed by transferring the general budgets of the State to social security. Therefore, this implies that it has a solidary and redistributive purpose. By the way, the previous regulation you made already halved the percentages to the maximum pensions, and in this case you did not consider it discriminatory or break the principle of contributory. Frankly, I think it would have been better for this country if you had voted in favour. Ladies and gentlemen, this royal decree-law is very ambitious. As the minister has already said, it includes measures to reduce the gender gap in pensions, it implies the improvement of minimum living income, a plus of support for social health personnel, which has been at the forefront of the struggle against COVID-19, and new measures also supporting self-employed workers; all this goes perfectly in line with the coalition agreement that underpins the action of the government of this progressive government, which has in social cohesion one of its main axes and which is also at the basis of the values that it has defended, defends and will continue to defend always the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party. Firstly, because it addresses the urgent issue of equality between men and women, and addresses it by regulating a complement which aims to combat the gender gap in pensions and which will reduce the current inequality from 30% to 5% in the medium term. With this new regulation of Article 60, the number of people, the vast majority of women, who were forced to leave the labour market or to reduce their working hours after the birth or adoption of their first child, is also increased by about 30,000. This measure, together with the fight against the labour gap, which is the basis of the subsequent pension gap, develops the recommendations of the Toledo Pact, in particular paragraph 17, and is also taken up in the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan, and I make it clear, because it seems that some have not been informed, that it has been adopted in agreement with the Social Dialogue Bureau, a measure which eliminates all forms of discrimination, because moreover, thanks to this royal decree-law, men and parents who have been affected by their professional career will also have the right to take care of their family. This is, therefore, a genuine positive action, which reverses gender gaps, and is in line with our co-responsibility policy by recognizing this complement to the men involved in care work. Secondly, this royal decree-law extends coverage to very vulnerable groups, initially excluded from the possibility of receiving the minimum living income. In addition, it promotes better management in cooperation with the social services of the autonomous communities, respecting, of course, the constitutionally established division of competences between the entities of the third sector and the municipalities. Only working together will we achieve a more decent society that leaves no one behind. Thirdly, this Royal Decree-Law regulates other social and economic protection measures. On the one hand, a plus of support is established for social and health personnel, who have been and continue to be on the job during the crisis. For those who have contracted SARS-CoV-2, they are considered to have a professional disease for social security benefits. It also facilitates the strengthening of human resources to combat the pandemic by making the retirement pension compatible with the appointment of statutory staff. On the other hand, there is an increase in support measures for a group that, during these difficult months, has suffered particularly harshly from the economic consequences of the pandemic, the self-sustaining. This Royal Decree includes some measures that raise awareness of the conditions of access to the benefits by COVID-19 and relieves the financial burden that the groups most punished by the pandemic are bearing by strengthening their solvency. In short, and I conclude, ladies and gentlemen, it is a real decree-law which, as I said at the beginning, will count on the support of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, because it is rigorous in its approach, supportive in its contents and, most importantly, ambitious in its objectives. Thank you very much for your attention, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-18-CD210218.u72	Thank you very much, Mrs Valerio. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-18-CD210218.u73	We now turn to the agenda item on the opinion of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on Council Decision 2020/2053 of 14 December 2020 on the system of the European Union's own resources and repealing Decision 2014/335/EU, Euratom. As agreed by the Board of Spokespersons, a three-minute shift is opened from the seat for parliamentary groups to set their positions. Firstly, Mr Esteban Bravo has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group, EAJ-PNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-18-CD210218.u74	I speak fifteen seconds simply to express our vote in favour, as it could not be otherwise. We have been constantly calling for European aid to take place, to come as soon as possible and to be effective. The other day we expressed our disagreement with some aspects of the regulation in the distribution of those investments that should be made with those European funds and we hope that it will be corrected in the parliamentary procedure. But all that would be empty without the approval of what we are going to vote on now, because it is necessary for Europe to be able to make the necessary loans. We therefore believe that this is a decisive vote and we believe that it will be adopted unanimously by this House. I think that's what we've been calling for all the political formations for a long time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-18-CD210218.u75	Thank you very much, Mr. Esteban. Mrs Martín Llaguno has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-18-CD210218.u76	Thank you, Madam President. Obviously we are going to vote in favour of this treaty, and I would like to make a consideration that is important and that is to explain to all the Spaniards that, unlike what has been said in previous weeks, that it was announced that by a decree the European Recovery Fund was allowed to be processed, it is precisely this adoption of this opinion that will allow the Commission to collect the extraordinary collection to finance these funds. That is why what we are voting on today is very important. What was voted on in the previous weeks, as has already been said, had to do not with the income that was coming, but with the distribution of the cash, with giving the key to the cash directly to this Government without establishing a control and without establishing mechanisms that we believe are essential to transparency and justice and that we hope that that decree will be corrected in the process as a bill. Of course, my parliamentary group will not only vote in favour, but also welcomes the arrival of this treaty in this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-18-CD210218.u77	Thank you, Mrs. Martin. The Plural Parliamentary Group has the floor, first of all, Mr Rego Candamil.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-18-CD210218.u78	Thank you, Madam President. The BNG is not going to support this proposal; to start with a question of form, and I am not referring only to the fact that I introduced it as a matter of urgency just two days ago, but to the evidence that elements of political silence are being introduced with it, which we believe need greater political and social debate. The attempt to provide the European Union with more capacity than was intended to be achieved through the adoption of a European Constitution failed in 2005. It gives the impression that, despite this, it insists on walking in the way of the facts in that direction, in this case providing it with more own resources. We are not going to go in even if this is good or not, what is obvious is that we do not believe that we can do this by stealing citizens' opinion and position on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-18-CD210218.u79	Thank you, Mr. Rego. Mrs Illamola Dausà has the floor for the same parliamentary group. [[Pause]] From the seat, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-18-CD210218.u80	I'm sorry, but I've got my hands full. We, seeing the timetable that has been followed for the ratification of this decision of the Council of the Union, can only ask what value they give to international law, what value they give to the participation of the Legislature in the manifestation of consent. And I say this because this decision is a decision whose legal basis already stated that unanimity of the Council, consultation of Parliament and ratification by the States was necessary. It is a decision which the Council adopted on 14 December, which was published in the official newspaper on 15 December, which was notified to the Government and, moreover, at the meeting of the Council of the Union, of course, there was a Spanish minister who I assume saw the procedure to be followed. We don't understand if he didn't alert the government. It's over December, it's over January, we're in February and now we're in a hurry. They arrived in a hurry last week when they convened a meeting of the Bureau and Spokesmen of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. This opinion had to be adopted last Monday in order to enter the plenary next week, and today, as a surprise, it appears in this plenary on urgent issues. We understand urgency, we understand the need for this decision, we do not discuss it; what we do not understand is these rushes in the procedure. Why was it not previously planned if there was time since December to do so? We will vote in favour logically because it is necessary, but, as we have told you other times in the last plenary with another royal decree, please plan a little better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-18-CD210218.u81	Thank you, Mrs. Illamola. I take this opportunity to recall that interventions from the seat should be done with the use of the mask. Mr Gómez-Reino Varela has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podem-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-18-CD210218.u82	Thank you, President. Firstly, if I may, I simply want to say that the right-wings have been trying to set this House, society and public debate on fire all morning, and I believe that we must say calmly, calmly - with all calm, please - and with all certainty, that what is democratically unbearable is that a young girl has lost an eye this week for going out peacefully in Barcelona, and that what is democraticly unbearable - we should all be concerned about - is what has happened in Linares. [[Rumors and Protests]] Getting us into European issues, what is embarrassing in Europe - listen to it, you should read what the European newspapers say, Der Spiegel, Libération, Le Monde, La Stampa - is... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-18-CD210218.u83	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-18-CD210218.u84	... is that a singer, we like more or less what he says, will go to prison for his freedom of expression. All this also embarrasses us in Europe. In any case, on the own resources plan, three things very quickly. Firstly, it must be made very clear that if there is no correlation between forces of progressive governments in the Council of Ministers of the European Union, we would not be debating this today, but we would be doing so, as in the 2008 crisis, on cuts to the public, cuts to health and education. We must therefore congratulate ourselves. Secondly, we are not naive in our parliamentary group. Every advance against austerity policies must be defended and we focus on the fact that the recovery plan in which we have to move does not have to favour, as always, IBEX 35 companies, but our basic economic fabric, our small and medium-sized enterprises, our rural world and the general public. And thirdly - it is over - yesterday we listened to the People's Group tear itself apart by a debate that is open and that is that the European Central Bank cancels the debt of the member countries so that those countries, precisely, use that debt for the recovery funds. I just want to say to the Group of the European People's Party that we are not surprised that, as always, it is on the side of the interests of the powerful in Europe, that we are not surprised that it represents Spain more subaltern, but what is already an oxymoron is that a party like yours comes this week to talk about fiscal justice after knowing that it has been in the People's Party for twenty-eight years, ladies and gentlemen of the Group of the European People's Party. Thank you very much, President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-18-CD210218.u85	Thank you, Mr. Gómez-Reino. Mr Suárez Lamata has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-18-CD210218.u86	Thank you very much, Madam President. What really surprises me is to hear speeches like the one we just heard from the spokesman for Podemos when Mr Echenique is convicted of justice, when they have everything they have right now in the courts of justice, and especially when they are trying to prevent such investigations. We have also learned, thanks to Podemos, that there are European funds. A party that was clearly Eurosceptic and anti-European now climbs into the 14 billion cart. What I did not know, ladies and gentlemen, is that Mrs Merkel, who is the main driving force behind these funds, is now from Podemos. What we will have to hear, ladies and gentlemen, in this House! We will vote yes - it is a pity that the President of the Government is not here - for responsibility, because when you bring things that are good for the Spaniards the People's Party supports them. And since we have to be serious partners, logically, we have to contribute our share to Europe. When one belongs to a club, the logical thing is to pay the fee of that club to participate in the services it provides and in this case, ladies and gentlemen, nothing more and nothing less than 140 billion. What is hard for us to understand is the positions of other parties that are going to vote that no, parties that are located in anti-globalism, in Euroscepticism, with pure political tacticalism, changing their minds when appropriate, when we are playing a lot. In economics, ladies and gentlemen, the magical realism that some groups pose here does not exist. The Magi are the parents, ladies and gentlemen, and in this case it is the State, which provides resources to the European Union. Money is not generated spontaneously, nor does it come out of a machine. I say this, fundamentally, because today there are going to be groups here who are going to oppose this agreement. Ladies and gentlemen, it is this agreement that must be voted on, because this is the one that makes it easier for resources to come to Spain. To whom it was necessary to vote that it is not the one to whom Bildu and VOX voted that yes, because that is the one who gives the key to Mr Sánchez, Mr Iglesias and Mr Redondo to make politics; but not to make politics to transform the country, but to transform the political regime of this country. [[applause]] Ladies and gentlemen of VOX, you will be responsible for what happens here with those 140 billion that unfortunately will not be used to build this country. Thank you very much. [[Several ladies and gentlemen: Very well!-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-18-CD210218.u87	Thank you, Mr. Suárez. For the Socialist Group, Mr Gómez Hernández has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-18-CD210218.u88	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, on account of responsibility, we are really surprised by the position of some parliamentary groups in your speech today. Today we ratify an agreement, a decision, that passes through all the Member States and that comes to authorize exceptionally the Commission to access capital markets at 2018 prices up to an amount of 75 billion euros, and is interlinked with the decree approved in this House. They do not hide under that justification that they argue here the irresponsibility of having voted against the decree in the previous plenary. [[Applauds]] Do not demagogue, do not demagogue with the imperative need of our citizens and businesses in our country. That's demagogy and irresponsibility. Do not point out to other parliamentary groups that they did act responsibly, with abstention or by voting in favour, thinking about Spain and not about technicalities or political strategies. [[protests]] With regard to the deadlines, Spain cannot wait. Indeed, it was adopted this Monday in the Committee on Foreign Affairs and today it rises to this House with the sole objective of putting in place all the necessary instruments so that Spain can get out of this situation that we are experiencing as soon as possible. To be honest, the Socialist Group was waiting today for an exercise of responsibility and for this point to be adopted unanimously. We see how irresponsibility and demagogy continue to prevail. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group, once and for all acknowledge the work and management carried out by the President of the Government and the leadership of Spain in setting up these resources to address this situation. [[Applauds]] The president of the government is Pedro Sánchez Pérez-Castejón. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-18-CD210218.u89	Thank you very much, Mr. Gómez. We'll vote in five minutes. Ladies and gentlemen, I remind you that you will only be able to vote from the seat that corresponds to you with your name on the screen. I would also remind you that those Members who have been authorized to vote for the telematics procedure cannot do so from their seats. I would appreciate it if those who do not have to vote would leave the Chamber. Thank you so much. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-18-CD210218.u90	Ladies and gentlemen, we started with the votes. No-law propositions. No legislative proposal by the VOX Parliamentary Group on the establishment of maximum time limits for resolution in constitutional processes. Voting by points. We voted, first of all, on point 1. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 107 plus 243 telematics votes, 350; in favour, 56 telematics votes; against, 107 plus 186 telematics votes, 293; abstentions, 1 telematics vote.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-18-CD210218.u91	It's rejected. Point number two. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 107 plus 243 telematics votes, 350; in favour, 43 plus 111 telematics votes, 154; against, 64 plus 131 telematics votes, 195; abstentions, 1 telematics vote.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-18-CD210218.u92	It's rejected. Point number three. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 107 plus 243 telematics votes, 350; in favour, 54 telematics votes; against, 107 plus 186 telematics votes, 293; abstentions, 3 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-18-CD210218.u93	It's rejected. Point number four. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 107 plus 243 telematics votes, 350; in favour, 56 telematics votes; against, 107 plus 186 telematics votes, 293; abstentions, 1 telematics vote.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-18-CD210218.u94	It's rejected. - the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations (CGE) in common (CGE) in relation to the sexual and reproductive rights of women. [[File number 162/000532]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-18-CD210218.u95	No law proposal of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-In Comú Podemos-Galicia in common, concerning the sexual and reproductive rights of women. It shall be put to the vote on its terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 107 plus 243 telematics votes, 350; in favour, 64 plus 120 telematics votes, 184; against, 43 plus 102 telematics votes, 145; abstentions, 21 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-18-CD210218.u96	The non-legislative proposal was approved.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-18-CD210218.u97	Motions resulting from urgent appeals. Motion following urgent questioning by the Republican Parliamentary Group, on whether the Government is planning a turn in its territorial policy and in particular with regard to the conflict with Catalonia. It shall be put to the vote on its terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 107 plus 243 telematics votes, 350; in favour, 38 telematics votes; against, 101 plus 175 telematics votes, 276; abstentions, 6 plus 30 telematics votes, 36.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-18-CD210218.u98	The motion for urgent questioning is rejected. - the Joint Parliamentary Group on the development of the CORONAVIRUS COVID-19 vaccination camp to try to immunize the Spanish population in the shortest possible time and to [[LORD MARTÍNEZ OBLANCA]] THE SECOND TRAGICS OF THE ACCOUNT. [[File number 173/000049]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-18-CD210218.u99	Motion for an urgent appeal by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Martínez Oblanca, on the development of the campaign for the vaccination of the coronavirus, COVID-19, to try to immunize the Spanish population in the shortest possible time and to stop the tragic consequences of the infection. The vote was taken on the compromise amendment tabled by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, the VOX Parliamentary Group, the Citizens' Parliamentary Group and the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Martínez Oblanca. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 107 plus 243 telematics votes, 350; in favour, 44 plus 111 telematics votes, 155; against, 63 plus 128 telematics votes, 191; abstentions, 4 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-18-CD210218.u100	The motion for urgent questioning is rejected. - the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress, so that the Government can explain the steps it is taking to resolve THE FINANCING PROBLEM - CURRENT AND FUTURE - OF THE AUTOMOUS COMMUNITIES. [[File number 173/000050]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-18-CD210218.u101	Motion for an urgent call by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress for the Government to explain the steps it is taking to resolve the current and future funding problem of the autonomous communities. The vote will also be taken by separate points. Point number one. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 107 plus 236 telematics votes, 343; 43 plus 77 telematics votes, 120; 64 plus 152 telematics votes, 216; abstentions, 7 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-18-CD210218.u102	It's rejected. Point number two. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 107 plus 237 telematics votes, 344; in favour, 107 plus 155 telematics votes, 262; against, 62 telematics votes; abstentions, 20 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-18-CD210218.u103	It was adopted. Point number three. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 107 plus 236 telematics votes, 343; 43 plus 60 telematics votes, 103; 64 plus 152 telematics votes, 216; abstentions, 24 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-18-CD210218.u104	Consequently, it is rejected. Point number four. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 107 plus 237 telematics votes, 344; in favour, 43 plus 63 telematics votes, 106; against, 64 plus 153 telematics votes, 217; abstentions, 21 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-18-CD210218.u105	Consequently, it is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-18-CD210218.u106	Validation or repeal of royal decree-laws. Royal Decree-Law 2/2021 of 26 January on strengthening and consolidating social measures in defence of employment. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 107 plus 242 by telephone, 349; in favour, 107 plus 189 by telephone, 296; against, 52 by telephone; abstentions, 1 by telephone.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-18-CD210218.u107	Therefore, the Royal Decree-Law is validated. The processing of this royal decree-law has been requested as a bill by the urgency procedure, so we proceed to vote on that request. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 107 plus 243 telematics votes, 350; in favour, 43 plus 133 telematics votes, 176; against, 64 plus 106 telematics votes, 170; abstentions, 4 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-18-CD210218.u108	It is therefore dealt with as a draft law by the urgency procedure. - REAL DECRETO-LEY 3/2021, OF 2 FEBRUARY, BY WHICH MEASURES ARE TAKEN TO REDUCE THE GENERAL'S GOODS AND OTHER MATTERS IN THE FIELD OF SOCIAL AND ECONOMIC SECURITY. [[File number 130/000043]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-18-CD210218.u109	Royal Decree-Law 3/2021 of 2 February, adopting measures for the reduction of the gender gap and other matters in the areas of social and economic security. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 107 plus 241 telematics votes, 348; in favour, 64 plus 104 telematics votes, 168; against, 43 plus 121 telematics votes, 164; abstentions, 16 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-18-CD210218.u110	Therefore, the Royal Decree-Law is validated. [[Applauds]] The processing of this royal decree-law has been requested as a bill by the urgency procedure, so we proceed to vote on that request. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 107 plus 240 by telephone, 347; in favour, 107 plus 237 by telephone, 344; against, 3 by telephone.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-18-CD210218.u111	It is therefore dealt with as a draft law by the urgency procedure.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-18-CD210218.u112	Opinions of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on international conventions. Council Decision 220/253 of 14 December 2020 on the system of own resources of the European Union and repealing Decision 2014/335/EU, Euratom. [[EU, Euratom]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 107 plus 240 by telephone, 347; in favour, 106 plus 220 by telephone, 326; against, 2 by telephone; abstentions, 1 plus 18 by telephone, 19.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-18-CD210218.u113	The opinion was therefore adopted. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The meeting rose. It was 12 and 50 minutes from noon.
