ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. The meeting was resumed. Take your seats, please. We continue with the questions addressed to the Government in accordance with the order sent by the Government. Ladies and gentlemen, please remain silent. Questions to the First Vice-President of the Government and Minister for the Presidency, Relations with the Courts and Democratic Memory. Question by Mrs Concepción Gamarra Ruiz-Clavijo of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u2	Thank you, President. Madam Vice-President, the Constitution defines the Council of State as the supreme consultative body of the Government, but this Government has made it the supremely ignored, despised and bridged body. I begin with the famous report on the decree of the European funds that you put in a drawer. When he finally saw the light, we knew the reasons why they had hidden it: he denounced the lack of controls and the arbitrariness with which Moncloa will distribute 140 billion euros; let nothing stand between his finger and the European funds. The Council of State also called on them a few days ago what this party, the People's Party, has been asking for for for a year - what dared that of the Council of State! - a legal plan B so that the autonomous communities can manage the pandemic without the need to resort to a state of alarm. Does that ring a bell, Mrs. Calvo? Because it is the reform that you promised to carry out from this House. And lastly, there are his continuing bridges to the Council of State in the processing of the decrees of the first state of alarm, of the new Law of Education, of the Law of Euthanasia or of the reforms of the General Council of the Judiciary; by the way, go away! That is why I ask you: What reasons do you encourage the government to ignore the Council of State? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u3	Madam First Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u4	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs. Gamarra, no reason, because we don't ignore it. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u5	Mrs. Gamarra.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u6	Mrs Calvo, what little humility!, when, moreover, yesterday the European Union had to slow down its attempts to attack the independence of judges. By the way, who's blocking? We must also tell them that the People's Party has not agreed on reforms because we are not trilers. We are the guarantors of the separation of powers, that is, the opposite of you; we, moreover, are still in the same place, Mrs Calvo, also following what the Council of State says. Nor have we changed our view - as the Council of State says - on the legal alternative to the state of alarm. In fact, it was President Casado who brought that possible reform a year ago, that plan B, to this House and we have brought it back. Take it and legislate, as the Council of State says. Stop laughing at the Council of State, stop violating the independence of judges, stop mocking institutions. When you do all that, you will realize that there was, is and will be the People's Party. [[Strong applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u7	Madam First Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u8	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Cosidó's People's Party, who said he controlled the Supreme Court from behind? That People's Party? [[Rumors]] As you wanted to talk about the General Council of the Judiciary, do you know what happens to the General Council of the Judiciary? That you refuse to renew it. Nothing more than that. But I'm going to talk to you about the Council of State. As you have read well, the Council of State is a consultative body to which this Government consults when it is mandatory and binding and when it is not, and in general terms we always accept the criteria of its opinions, says the Council of State itself. Do you want me to remind you of some notable occasions where your party's government was deviating from the Council of State? [[Rumors]] I'm not going to do it because I'm very interested in this question that you've asked...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u9	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u10	And I'm very interested because it's in connection with what Mr. Married said the other day, the idea you have of the state. And do you know what idea you have of the state, besides not basing it on the pillars of a true democracy? The question is this: do you believe that there is any body that can supplant the legitimacy and powers of the government that comes out of the ballot box? [[Applauds]] That is the question, because just as my party is going to have to go through Europe telling what Mr Casado thinks of a democracy and what you have come here to say this morning. No body supplants the Government because this body is the one that comes directly out of the ballot box. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] - OF THE DEPUTY VOICE OF THE SPINOSIS OF THE SIMON MONTERS, OF THE VOICE OF THE PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, AND MINISTER OF THE PRESIDENCY, RELATIONS WITH THE COURTS AND DEMOCRATIC MEMORY: HOW DOES THE GENERAL SITUATION OF SPAIN VALUE? [[File number 180/00506]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u11	Question by Mr Iván Espinosa de los Monteros de Simon, Member of the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u12	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Vice-President, the worst crisis since the Spanish Civil War continues to show its worst face, and your Government's propaganda is staying in that, in mere propaganda. You said that we would come out stronger, but the reality of the Spaniards is that we have not come out of the health crisis and no one comes out stronger, except perhaps a member of his government, who did come out and with a substantially stronger patrimony than he brought in. They said that no one is left behind, but the reality is that there are no signs of recovery; on the contrary, the forecast of your Minister of Economy is that we are not going to grow to 9.8 but 6.5, a discount nothing less than 33%. As we warn you, this will have consequences on our budgets, which are already absolutely invalidated. The recovery of employment is reversed and the ERTE are becoming ERE, as is happening in CaixaBank, that entity where the government has control of 16% and where they are going to fire nothing less than 8300 employees. We already know that, despite the fact that your Minister of Finance denied me in parliamentary office three times that I was going to raise taxes, you prepare the worst tax haven for the Spaniards at the worst possible time, and as long as the aid does not reach either the families or the companies, after almost two months after President Sánchez' announcement. There's no money. Of course, there is no money for that; there is money to keep the miners throughout Spain, there is money to keep the stay of illegal immigrants in the Canary Islands... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u13	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u14	...and, meanwhile, the Spanish and legal immigrants in the queues of hunger. Madam Vice-President, in the light of this data, how do you assess the general situation in Spain and, above all, in Spain? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u15	Madam First Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u16	Thank you, Madam President. Look, Mr Espinosa de los Monteros, I value it as the great democracy that we are, fighting against a pandemic that the rest of the world is fighting, without your help, against its fallacy, but scrupulously fulfilling in the field of human rights in relation particularly to unaccompanied minors arriving in our country. That's how I see it. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u17	Señor Espinosa de los Monteros.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u18	Madam Vice President, do you drive Excel? Do you know what Excel is? It's a spreadsheet. Do you know what it is? [[Show an Excel document]] Look, we do drive Excel, we come to the professional world. We have calculated on the basis of official documents of the Madrid Assembly, to give an example. Do you want me to bring you closer to how much the Community of Madrid has spent in the last year, in the last twelve months? Because it amounts to EUR 4751.54 on average for each unaccompanied minor. If you are not served by the source of the Madrid Assembly, you have here El País, a newspaper that I believe guarantees you some respectability, more than I do: The Community will invest 140 euros a day in every unaccompanied immigrant child. [[shows a press clipping]] 140 euros per day for 30 days that has an average month are 4200 euros. What is the fallacy, minister, do not menasus exist?... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u19	Thank you, Mr Espinosa de los Monteros. Madam First Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u20	Thank you, Madam President. Señor Espinosa de los Monteros, yours is hate, literally hate. What you have done with these posters pointing to children, minors who come to our country, in some cases - which I well know - in terrible situations, without family, having been the subject of very serious crimes in the transits they make, is called inhumanity, hatred. [[Applauds]] You should not be part of this country's policy. The rights of these children have no accounting and economic discourse, they have the discourse of pain and helplessness, and if you don't see it, you should think about it. Because out there the vast majority of our compatriots are men and women with compassion, with solidarity, with the ability to understand human problems in the twenty-first century being the economic power of the world we are and a great European democracy. I should give you, you, much shame, much shame of what you are putting into our country's politics! - QUESTION FROM THE LORD DEPUTATE IVAN SPINOSIS OF THE SIMON MONTERS, OF THE PARLIAMENTARY GROUP VOX, FORMING THE LORD VICE-President FIRST [[Applauds]] AND MINISTER OF THE PRESIDENCY, RELATIONS WITH THE COURTS AND DEMOCRATIC MEMORY: WHY DID SPAIN LOST RESPONSE IN THE INTERNATIONAL COMMUNITY? [[File number 180/00480]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u21	Question to the second Vice-President of the Government and Minister for Economic Affairs and Digital Transformation. Question by Mr Iván Espinosa de los Monteros de Simon, Member of the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u22	Thank you, Madam President. Precisely because VOX has compassion is why we would never be bringing unaccompanied children, making a very dangerous journey, crossing the sea, risking life and taking it away from its mothers! And I should embarrass you and all the rulers of this country to put those children at that risk! [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u23	Mr Espinosa de los Monteros, it is time for the next question, please. It's not the turn to answer the previous question, I've stopped your time, don't worry. It is a new question to a new member of the Government. Please do not go back to the previous question.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u24	Madam President, do not assume that this is the other question. [[Applauds]] It shows the Government's foreign policy, which is generating a lack of support from the international community. Four days, four, Madam Vice President, it took President Obama to return the call to the then President of the Government of Spain, when he swore the office in 2008. With Trump the call to Rajoy was delayed a month. Then - and rightly so - much was said about Spain's weight loss in the international sphere. But it's just that we've been doing it for over three months now, we've been doing it for 91 days, and the president of the world's first power is still ninging Spain. President Biden has not taken long to call Merkel, Macron, the President of the Italian Government, Boris Johnson or the Greek Prime Minister, but not Pedro Sánchez. He is responsible for having installed our country in absolute irrelevance, we paint nothing and that is paid. Madam Vice-President, why has Spain lost the support of the international community?
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u25	Madam Second Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u26	Thank you very much, President. Mr Espinosa de los Monteros, Spain is one of the most respected and beloved countries of the international community. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u27	Señor Espinosa de los Monteros.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u28	I would very much like to believe that and we would be very proud, but the reality is exactly the opposite. In short: Spain has lost its international prestige because of its Government. His Minister of Science, who lost the candidacy to chair the European Space Agency, whom we support as a country, is well aware of this; the Minister of Foreign Affairs lost the nomination to chair the World Trade Organization, in which Spain also played its prestige. You yourself, Madam Vice-President, as Minister for Economic Affairs, chose the Presidency of the Eurogroup. Do you remember that the supports were broken? But that appointment was also frustrated. And worst of all, you, the members of the government, the worst of all the Spaniards, are not taking it because in Europe the weakness of this government has been suffered by our farmers with the cuts in the CAP. In the Maghreb we have received a very hard blow to a policy of decades with the recognition by the United States of Morocco's sovereignty over Western Sahara. In Gibraltar they have renounced, without presenting any battle, what the Spaniards have been fighting for for three hundred years. And today the Ibero-American Summit is celebrated, where Maduro is invited instead of Guaidó and where we regret the loss of the credibility of Spain in the surf, with guiños to chavismo, clandestine encounters with suitcases and millionaire rescues to airlines linked to chavismo. Meanwhile, the Minister of Foreign Affairs in the parliamentary seat defends that the backbone of Spain, of foreign policy, is feminism and not the defense of the general interests of Spain in the world. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u29	Madam Second Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u30	Thank you very much, President. Mr Espinosa de los Monteros, I will give you three thoughts on the misappointments that you have poured here this morning. Firstly, Spain is one of the most respected countries in the world, according to all the indicators. We're talking about democratic quality, we're talking about quality of life, we're talking about prosperity, we're talking about democratic history, we're talking about human rights, as the first Vice-President has rightly pointed out, and, as far as she is concerned, we have a very important role in Europe, we have an important role in multilateral bodies, not to mention the confidence that investors show every day. But what's more, Spain is one of the most beloved countries in the world and also, although it weighs it, it is because we have a progressive, feminist, open, welcoming and supportive society. In fact - and I think you are absolutely wrong with the line you are taking - if anything characterizes Spain is love for children. It is totally out of place - I believe - with such disgusting, racist, homophobic, sexist and xenophobic speeches. [[Applauds]] And that brings me to my third reflection. I am not surprised that you, who fill your mouth all the time with the word Spain, are unable to look around and realize that the early Spain, in fact, is positive, resilient, looks to the future with hope and is willing to work for a better country. That is Spain that gives me the full confidence that we will recover and remain for many years one of the most respected and dearest countries in the world. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEVELOPED GARCIA EGEA THEODOR, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHO FORMULATES THE VICE-President OF THE THIRD AND MINISTRY OF WORK AND SOCIAL ECONOMY: HOW DOES THE GOVERNMENT THE IMF PROVIDES VALUE WHAT SPANISH WILL NOT RECOVER THE PRE-PANDEMIA STATION LEVELS BY 2027? [[File number 180/00501]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u31	Questions to the third Vice-President of the Government and Minister for Labour and Social Economy. Question by Mr Teodoro García Egea, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u32	Thank you, Madam President. Spain is a wonderful country, despite you, and say what you say, Mrs Díaz, your arguments, in Spain there are six million people who want to work and cannot. Tough reality. What, if not, are the 740,000 workers at ERTE? Are you on vacation? No, they're people who can go to an ERE, go to unemployment. What are the 440,000 self-employed with cessation of activity? Are you on vacation? No, they're people who can't lift the blind. What is 40% youth unemployment? Are they idle young people? No, it's the real drama that Spanish youth is experiencing today. Mrs Díaz, I will ask you for the second time: what do you think - with these figures - that the vice president and leader of your party has collected 5000 euros in compensation after knowing these unemployment figures? Is that okay with you? Do you share it? [[A Member of Parliament: What a demagogy!]] Mrs Díaz, how do you appreciate the International Monetary Fund saying that Spain will not recover the expected growth until 2027? [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u33	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u34	What plan do you have to reverse this data? What's your plan? Tell us about it. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u35	Madam Third Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u36	Your Honor, you seem to be a pretty bad student. However, I will repeat our country's unemployment rate: 3,949,640. Mr GarcíaEgea, the Government is going to do everything in its power to ensure that this figure does not happen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u37	Mr. García Aegean.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u38	What a lack of sensitivity, Mrs. Díaz! What a lack of empathy with the people who are in the queues of hunger and a lack of sensitivity with those who are in ERTE and do not charge the money because the Government of Spain does not pay it! [[Rumors]] [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u39	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u40	Mrs Díaz, your Government has received a tremendous correction from Brussels. After Pablo Casado will visit Brussels and denounce his totalitarian drift, Brussels has taken letters on the matter to prevent the Government from continuing to make its own. [[Shows a press clipping]] For the first time in history, Brussels has intervened in Spanish justice. Brussels has prevented you, the government of Sánchez and Iglesias, from putting your hands and claws into Spanish justice. Let us hope that he will not have to intervene again because of his management of the European funds. That is why they should listen to Pablo Casado and set up the independent European fund management agency before Brussels imposes the mechanism on them. The People's Party has stopped its plan to control justice; 2500 judges have gone to Brussels to denounce its totalitarian plan. The People's Party will always defend Spain, here and in Brussels, because in Europe the only one that leaves Spain badly is the government with its initiatives and proposals. Madam Vice President, I'm going to give you some good news. Those people who want to work and cannot, will soon find a job because the catastrophic forecasts of the International Monetary Fund will not be fulfilled in Spain. His Government has lost its lot, his luck has run out; they lost in Murcia, they lost in Castile and León, they lost in Brussels, they are going to lose in Madrid, and soon Pablo Casado will arrive at the Government of Spain so that, for the third time, the People's Party will regain prosperity for Spain. Thank you. [[Several Members: Very well!-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u41	Madam Third Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u42	Mr. García Aegean, this is the respect you have for the people who are in unemployment: turning your question into a meeting of the People's Party. [[Applauds]] I'll answer your question. Mr. García Aegean, do you know what the International Monetary Fund's forecast of unemployment rate for our country in 2020 was? I'm going to tell you: 20,8%. Do you know what our country's unemployment rate really was in 2020? 15,5 %. Do you know, Mr. García Aegean, why the International Monetary Fund was wrong? Simply because he thought that the Government of Spain was going to apply the same prescriptions as you, the People's Party, when you ruled. That is why the International Monetary Fund was wrong. [[Applauds]] But, Mr. García Aegean, the figures that the International Monetary Fund points out for our country until 2026, each and every one of them, are below the unemployment rate of the governments of Mariano Rajoy when you ruled. And I will tell you, Mr. García Aegean, that you must read the full reports. This report is also very important. Look at what the report of the International Monetary Fund literally says. He points to Spain as an example of social protection and literally says: ERTEs have been extremely powerful in curbing the rise in unemployment in the most acute phase of the crisis. He sets us as an example. And I will continue, Mr García Eggea, says the International Monetary Fund that we must invest more and better in education, health, strengthening social protection networks and improving the benefits you fight; that we need more income and that the way to achieve them is by improving the progressive taxation, by increasing - listen - inheritance taxes, real estate taxes and also property taxes; precisely what the People's Party is fighting. Times are changing, Mr GarcíaEgea, even for the International Monetary Fund. Add to the change and defend your people. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEVELOPED Mrs Macarena OLONA CHOCLAN, OF THE PARLIAMENTARY GROUP VOX, WHO FORMULATES THE Honourable Vice-President THIRD AND MINISTRE OF WORK AND SOCIAL ECONOMY: IN WHAT DOES THE PRESENCE OF THE EXTERMAL QUIERD IN THE GOVERNMENT BENEFIT BENEFIT THE WORK MARKET? [[File number 180/00507]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u43	Question by Mrs Macarena Olona Choclán, Member of the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u44	Thank you, Madam President. I'm giving it to you for reproduction.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u45	Madam Third Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u46	Your Honor, what the Spanish Government is doing is protecting businesses and workers. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u47	Mrs. Olona.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u48	With all due respect, Madam President. Only a communist minister is able to appear before the public, as you have done, to show your satisfaction with the unfortunate fact that today in Spain five million people depend on the public benefits of SEPE, on the public benefits of your ministry. So I assume, Mrs Communist Minister, that today you will be very pleased, because yesterday we learned that CaixaBank-Bankia will fire 8291 workers in Spain, 19% of its total workforce. And all because his government has allowed it; and all because his government, the United We can, authorized this merger without protecting employment, and what we have today is the largest ERE in the history of the Spanish banking sector, just a few days after knowing that the president of the new entity will charge up to three times as much as he did as president of Bankia, 1 650 000 euros a year, plus a bonus of 200 000 euros. And all thanks to this progressive government, after having forgiven, precisely, the return of the 21 billion euros that were missing to be returned from the rescue that in the year 2012 the popular government injected Bankia, with aid from the taxes of all the Spaniards. Remember, communist minister, what did Unidad Podemos promise all Spaniards election after election?: If we govern, with us the banks will return up to the last euro of the rescues. What do we now tell those futures dependent on SEPE's tails, minister? Because listening to you this weekend at a rally with your beloved leader, Mr. Pablo Iglesias, might even feel reassured, but the reality that doesn't appear on the pages of Vanity Fair is that what you have done with the unemployed in Spain during these months has no name, because with you - and they give good proof of it - and the almost 9000 SEPE employees, including the 1500 temporary employees, what the unemployed in Spain have found to be closed SEPE offices, offline phones, delays in charging the only 452 euros that today, because of your government, represent the only livelihood for thousands of families in Spain and already, to end, undue payments that will now be claimed to the unemployed with their interests and corresponding charges. Pure propaganda, communist minister, because as a good communist, you are all propaganda, but in your step the stele that leaves is ruining... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u49	Thank you very much, Mrs. Olona. Madam Third Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u50	Thank you, President. Your Honor, I could almost take the reply I gave to Mr. García Eggea as a reproduction. However, I will respect this House and I will point out that the greatest social protection that has been deployed in the democratic history of our country has been done by this Government. Look, we have saved more than 3,600,000 workers with their party's vote against. If it were for you, there would be no ERTE in our country or social protection. We have saved more than 550,000 companies, Your Honor, and if it were for you, they would also have allowed each and every one of them to fall. We have managed that, despite the biggest fall in GDP in our country of 11%, the unemployment rate is only 1.5%, which, by the way, also recognises international reports, less you. And look, ladies and gentlemen - oh, coincidences of life! - the increase in unemployment in all the autonomous communities, with the exception of the Balearic Islands and the Canary Islands, has occurred especially - the new COVID unemployment - in two autonomous communities, precisely in which you govern with the People's Party, one in three. [[Applauds]] They are called Madrid and Andalusia. Your Honor, I am not going to persist in your mistake and your lies, but I do want to tell you that if it were for you too - you have come to lodge a remedy of unconstitutionality, which only proves your lack of absolute sensitivity, against the repeal of the target dismissal for medical casualties - in the midst of the pandemic, today what the workers of our people would experience would be a disgrace. I'm on my way, President. In this House, in this society, Your Honor, there is no hatred, there is no racism, there is no violation of human rights. Spain is in solidarity, Your Honor, and it would be good if you took into account every day the things you do, which of course represent the worst of yourselves. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPUTY DON JOAN MARAGALL SASTRE, OF THE REPUBLICAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, FORMULATING TO THE GOVERNMENT: WHAT CALENDAR DOES THE INTERMINISTERIAL WORK MESSAGE BUILDED WITH THE OBJECTIVE OF RECORDING THE ARTIST'S STATUS? [[File number 180/00496]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u51	Question to the Minister for Culture and Sport. Question by Mr Joan Margall Sastre, Member of the Republican Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u52	Thank you, President. Good morning, minister. What calendar does the interministerial working table created with the aim of drafting the status of the artist have in mind?
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u53	Minister for Culture and Sport.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u54	Thank you very much, President. Your Honor, the status of the artist is a commitment of this government to this legislature. Nobody did it before and we will do it, we are doing it, and I'm sure it will be with everyone's cooperation. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u55	Mr. Margall.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u56	Thank you, President. Obviously, minister, the question was somewhat provocative because you and I both know that this interministerial working table has not yet been set up which you have announced several times in recent months. There are all the circumstances for this law, which is crucial for the cultural sector, to be a reality during this legislature. The previous work in this Congress has been plentiful, with conclusions of the subcommission for the feasibility study that were unanimously approved. And the work of the cultural sector is even more so, with dozens of proposals on the table. It also has a majority in favour of this Congress that goes beyond the majority of the investiture. The only thing missing is the political will of his Government. The question is, do they want or don't they want? This table will bring nothing that has not already been worked on in the previous two legislatures; the conclusions covered all tax issues for the sector, including labour protection, public benefits, intellectual property and creative activities. And if in January 2019 all the groups agreed that their approval was urgent, now, after a global pandemic that has seriously affected the sector, it is even more so and perhaps we are already late. The cultural sector needs urgent structural reforms because we are being torn apart, and behind culture there are workers, self-employed and self-employed, people, in short, who are having a very bad time. Almost a year and a half of the legislature has already been consumed and no progress has been made. They waste time and spend the legislature. They're not doing everything in their hands and they know it. Get to work already on a global law with profound reforms for culture. We reach out to them, you know it won't be for us. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u57	Minister for Culture and Sport.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u58	Thank you, President. Your Honor, the development of the artist's status is, by virtue of its uniqueness and transcendence, the main objective of the ministry's cultural policies in relation to the creators and workers of culture. I just want to repeat that culture is value, it is industry and it is right: the right of citizens - that is why we are working to make their access universal - and the right of creators, of creators, of writers, of artists, what is concrete in copyright, of intellectual property - before yesterday we adopted a declaration in the Council of Ministers in their defence - and also, of course, in the so-called status of the artist, a charter of rights that must give them visibility, recognition and legal certainty, without losing sight of gender equality. You know that we work directly and in collaboration with other ministerial departments in the regulatory reforms that are required, in particular with the Ministry of Labour, with the Ministry of Finance or with the Ministry of Social Security, among others. I could list several examples of regulatory developments that we have already incorporated into the legal system and which contain recommendations from the statute report agreed in this House in areas such as the prosecutor, pensions or unemployment aid, which are not minor issues. Thus, we have approved fiscal and sponsorship incentives for artistic creation and cinematography, including the decree of May, with an economic impact of more than 90 million euros. We have recognized the compatibility of retirement pension and copyright, both in passive classes and in the general social security system, or the remuneration to screenwriters at the time of their work, as well as measures of unemployment protection for artists and auxiliary workers, for technicians. Your Honor, the full implementation of the statute is, as I have said on several occasions, a company for the entire legislature and a priority for this government, which is going to develop progressively, as mandated by the agreement of Congress. It has the reinforcement of the Plan of Recovery, Transformation and Resilience of the Spanish economy, where it appears recognized in component 24, one of the ten tractor policies that we shield through this plan of revaluation. In short, we are committed to working on the statute. I said that culture is a right, it is a value and it is an industry and, therefore, we cannot lose it... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u59	Thank you very much, Minister. - OF THE IGNACIO GIL LAZARO, OF THE PARLIAMENTARY GROUP VOX, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF THE INTERIOR: ARE YOU GOING TO END WITH THE VIOLENCE CALLERY EXERCISEED AGAINST VOX BY THE BANDS OF EXTREME INVESTIGATION? [[File number 180/00508]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u60	Questions to the Minister for the Interior. Question by Mr Ignacio Gil Lázaro, Member of the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u61	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, are you definitely going to end the extreme left-wing violence against VOX?
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u62	Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u63	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you, Mr. Gil Lazarus. In answer to the content of your question, which was formalized and which to a certain extent has obviated, that violence to which you refer in the electoral processes, first of all, I would like to say that I am pleased to ask a question concerning the competences of this ministry for once. Secondly, I would like to tell you that, of course, the Ministry of the Interior is committed to security in all electoral processes so that electoral acts can take place in terms of the necessary peace, so that all citizens are duly informed that this security will be guaranteed. From that point of view, we have the protocols, as in all the electoral processes, with the Government Delegation in Madrid, where general measures and specific measures are taken, both for what are the electoral acts and for what will be the electoral day of 4 May, with more than 7700 national police and civilian guards, who will continue to guarantee, as in the last forty years, the entire electoral process. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u64	Mr. Gil Lazarus.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u65	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister, how disparaging it is to hear you now say that you are committed to peace and security in the electoral process. Look, the street violence against VOX in Vallecas personally summoned her PabloIglesias, seconded by ministers Irene Montero and Belarus. She was applauded by Echenique, Monedero and that communist leader lawyer for the Colombian narco-guerrilla to whom you have made Secretary of State. She was justified by all her addicted press, starting with Spanish Television, which accused VOX of going to Vallecas to provoke. And finally, last week, the president himself endorsed it from that rostrum. And, above all, you allowed, facilitated the work of a mob of mice by allowing them to reach the same place of the act, preventing the police action on a previous basis to try to prevent it, a criminal complicity that aroused numerous wounded and that could cause some irreparable damage, so we have filed a complaint against you before the Supreme Court. And it is not then shielded in the arrests produced days later, because those arrests prove the gravity of the facts and their previous guilt in the production of them. Be that as it may, you are quite clear that you will not be content, that we will continue to go everywhere and that we will never respond to your violence with violence. We are stronger than their hatred, than their threats, than their stumbling blocks and insults because we speak of homeland, harmony, progress, social justice, democracy and freedom with the same clean intonation of millions of Spaniards who know that they only have VOX left to defend themselves from the harassment of this useless, mindless and sectarian government, a government now also of gang vocation, a mafia government. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u66	Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u67	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you, Mr. Gil Lazarus. You speak of a homeland, but you speak of a homeland without human rights, without fundamental freedoms. You speak of a homeland based on hatred; we speak of a homeland based on human rights and freedoms. [[Applauds]] That is why we guarantee and guarantee electoral processes; we will ensure that even you can say what you say, provided that it is within the framework of the Constitution and, of course, do not generate or incite violence, hatred or discrimination, because they will also find us there; they will find the Minister and the State Security Forces and Bodies, because, as I always say, when they put on the uniform, they put on the uniform with constitutional values, not with the values of those governments that you are less than forty years ago. I say again to you that we will continue to guarantee the electoral process, as we have done for the past forty years and as the State Security Forces and Corpses do, but we will continue to defend the vulnerable, we will keep an eye on those unaccompanied minors, so that people, by gender diversity, diversity of sexual, ideological, religious or any kind, are not in any way pointed out by fascists like you. [[Applauds]] - OF THE MINISTER OF THE INTERIOR: WHAT PLANS DOES THE MINISTER OF THE INTERIOR HAVE TO FRONT THE ARRANGEMENTS OF AGREES BY LGTBFOBIA IN SPAIN? [[File number 180/00493]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u68	Question by Mr Íñigo Errejón Galván, Member of the Plural Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u69	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, a question about something that is happening in our country. What plans does the Government have to deal with attacks against LGBT people?
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u70	Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u71	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you very much, Mr Errejon, for your question. You do care to talk about rights, freedoms and values that make us at least a little bit better at all. I agree with you on your parliamentary initiative in this regard. I also want to mention that since June 7, 2018, when we took over the Ministry of the Interior, we started to work and made the first Action Plan to combat hate crimes, on January 15, 2019. Then, in our program for this legislature, in the 2030 Security model, we also referred to the fight against hate crimes. In 2020, we have already launched a protocol of action through instruction 4/2020 of the State Security Secretariat, with very important measures such as complementing police training by establishing standard complaints; campaigns on social networks; also preventive measures to prevent incidents and hate crimes, for example in schools; care for victims, as well as the development of a good practice guide to collect complaints. And, of course, there would be an effective response. Therefore, we have a framework, an agreement with the Spanish Federation of Municipalities and Provinces very important to converge also with the policies of municipal police, local police, which are so important. In those terms, we are reducing the number of hate incidents, but what we will do is to get out all those black numbers, those complaints that still, under different circumstances, do not come out in the light. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u72	Mr. Errejón.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u73	Thank you, Mr. Marlaska. The European Union says that half of the LGBT people in Spain - half - avoid holding hands on the street with their partner for fear of aggression; 41% say they have received insults, threats or persecutions only in the last year, and there are 280 hate crimes, and these are the reported ones, you know that most do not report themselves. But I wanted to think about it, because where does this hate come from? This hatred does not grow spontaneously, it does not rain from heaven; hatred is sown, and it must be said clearly; this hatred is sown because in Spain there are speeches and political leaders dedicated day and night to sowing hatred. It is said first that those who come to the queues of hunger are subsidized and maintained, and hatred against the poor is sown. They put racist ads against children on the Madrid subway - to make it necessary to be cowardly and miserable to put the children in the trigger - and it turns out that, after a twelve-year-old boy breaks his face in Guadalajara; or it is said - as a leader of the extreme right in our country -: We have gone from beating homosexuals to now they impose their law. And then the insults are everyday, the last to a famous water polo player; if they tell him that, what will not happen in schools or what will not happen in the parks of Spanish cities. Look, Minister, every time we denounce the inequality of rights in this House someone tells us that this is out of grudge or hatred; it is exactly the opposite, it is out of love for the other so we want the rights of some to be rights for all. I'm telling you, I'm privileged in this matter. I've never had to put up with a guy's jokes at Christmas dinner about my sexual orientation; I've never had to look around to decide whether or not I catch my partner's hand on the street. I've never been told that I'm not normal or that I'm a stray. I've never had to hide the pen in school so they wouldn't break my face. They have never waited for me at the door of my house to call me a child, chase me and beat me, as they did Eva Vildosola in Barcelona. For it is very simple, that what has never happened to me will never happen to anyone in Spain again. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u74	Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u75	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you, Mr. Errejón. Totally agree. How lucky you are to have been so lucky in life because many others have not been so lucky, but what is true is that many of us share the values so that that is not repeated, so that someone can go hand in hand not only in Chueca but also in Nuñez de Balboa, for example, and we will continue. [[Applauds]] That is why policies are very important, not only from the point of view of the Interior, but also from the point of view of cross-cutting policies, and that is why education is very important, and that is why many, or some - I look over there - see right the parental pin and continue to support it, and support each other. They do not know the weak favor they do to freedom, equality and even their children. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u76	Thank you very much, Minister. - OF THE DEVELOPED MARIA SANDRA MONEO DEZ, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF EDUCATION AND VOCATIONAL TRAINING: WHY IS THE GOVERNMENT COMMITTED TO DEVALUATE QUALITY AND EQUITY IN EDUCATION? [[File number 180/00504]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u77	Question addressed to the Minister for Education and Vocational Training. Question by Mrs María Sandra Moneo Díez, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u78	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Minister, after the incarnated attack on educational freedoms, concerted education, differentiated education, after putting an expiry date on special education centres and after offering the Spanish as a trophy to its separatist partners, we sincerely believe that nothing could surprise us anymore, but I am afraid that with you the maximum is fulfilled that everything is likely to get worse. That is why I ask you: Why is the Government committed to devaluing quality and equity in education? Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u79	Minister for Education and Vocational Training.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u80	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Moneo. Why does the People's Party strive not to combat school segregation? Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u81	Mrs. Moneo.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u82	Minister, there is nothing more segregating than lowering the quality of the education system, and your Government is making a strong commitment to it. First, because you have commissioned the curricula to a large part of the ideologists of the Logse - imagine; if the first part was not good, what will be that second part - and, second, because you have been so busy cutting off the freedom of choice of families that you have forgotten that there is a causal relationship between freedom of choice and improvement of results. At greater freedom, minister, more quality, so when you cut freedoms you strike a deadly blow to the quality of the educational system, minister, and without quality equity is less possible. That is why, with all humility, I ask you, Minister, to look around, to look at what some autonomous communities are doing, to look at the Community of Madrid, for example, because Madrid is an example of freedoms, which is why it has placed its educational system at the level of the best European countries in quality and educational success. By the way, a success that your partner and even before yesterday's partner in the Council of Ministers intends to annihilate by suppressing the concert regime, Minister - you will have to explain to us if you agree - by suppressing the right of families to the concert. That is why, Minister, I tell you from here that we are going to stop them, and we are going to stop them as the Democrats do, with the force of the law - yesterday the Constitutional Court announced the admission to our unconstitutionality appeal - but also with the weight of the ballot box, and there I have only one thing to say to you: see you on 4 May. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u83	Minister for Education and Vocational Training.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u84	Mrs Moneo, as you well know, freedom is fully and absolutely guaranteed in our educational system, which is fully constitutional. [[Applauds]] But I will tell you more, even though it is fully guaranteed, do you know what the OECD says in 2019? That freedom of choice alone does not guarantee or undermine the quality of education, are elsewhere precisely the components of quality. In this regard, I must ask you, Mrs Moneo, what do you think of the increase of no less than 34% in scholarships - 500 million more; up to 2 000 million - with 93 000 more fellows? What do you think? Do you think it's fair and excellent or not? What do you think, Mrs Moneo, is that there is a progressive universalisation of 0 to 3 years, as a child, which we are going to start doing now? What do you think of 64 000 more vocational training places already in operation this year, in addition to those offered by the Autonomous Communities? Do you think it's fair and excellent or not? What do you think of digitization, more than 1 billion in digitization that we will have until 2024? Do you think it's fair and excellent or not? You will be the only person in this country who does not consider that the work that is being done in structural reforms the Spanish education system at this time is equitable and excellent, the only one, Madam, because I also speak to your councillors of autonomous communities and of course they all thank you for everything that is being done. [[Rumors]] I'll tell you more. We are working to increase the educational heritage of the education system by connecting with national and international bodies. Do you know what his inheritance was? I will tell you this: a fundamentalist law, fortunately, is in the attic and that you really couldn't meet and a cut in educational spending, in educational investment that accounted for almost 1% of GDP. And you know what else your inheritance has been? Establish a government in Murcia with a VOX Education Advisor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u85	Thank you very much, Minister. - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF JOSÉ IGNACIO ECHÁNIZ SALGADO, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, FORMING THE MINISTER OF HEALTH: WHY DIDN'T ANY MEMBER OF THE GOVERNMENT VISITAL ZENDAL HOSPITAL IN MADRID? [[File number 180/00503]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u86	Questions to the Minister of Health. Question by Mr José Ignacio Echaniz Salgado, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u87	Thank you very much, Madam President; ladies and gentlemen. Why hasn't any members of the government visited the Zendal Hospital in Madrid yet?
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u88	Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u89	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Echániz, this minister has not received any invitation from the Community of Madrid to visit any hospital, health centre or other type of event. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u90	Mr. Echaniz.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u91	Madrid will be the tomb of sanchismo. There are thirteen days left for the beginning of the end, of its end. During this pandemic we have experienced an unprecedented abnormality within a government, you have forgotten how important it is to dedicate yourself. They are the antithesis of the public service, which essentially involves the sacrifice of time and effort to solve the problems of the citizens, because when the citizens have needed them you have turned your back on them to attack the Community of Madrid, essentially by electoral calculation. While Ayuso was fighting the pandemic, you were fighting Ayuso. [[Rumors]] If Pedro Sánchez had been in the Titanic, he would have sacrificed women and children to save himself. [[Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u92	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u93	Otherwise, why did the health minister leave the boat at the height of the pandemic? Why is the minister in charge of tourism and industry now willing to leave the government when it is most needed? Ladies and gentlemen, you have never led the pandemic because you simply had a president looking in the mirror. They have only been right when they have turned back or when they have rectified and made a case for the Community of Madrid. We know that your priority has been to visit fashion shows before visiting the hospital that has saved the most lives in Spain. But stop attacking the Community of Madrid and go look for vaccines; go to Europe to look for vaccines, what Spanish citizens need right now. The other day I wondered how long it would take to accept Ayuso's proposal that they also vacate in companies: forty-eight hours; it took only forty-eight hours. Minister, I invite you to know the public health of Madrid, which you do not know. It is the best health in Spain, the most capable, the most powerful, the most supportive too, and it is because for twenty-five years the People's Party has ruled in it. The Zendal has saved more than 4000 lives so far and has vaccinated more than 240,000 people, and all you have done is try to sabotage it, but now you have to look into the eyes of the citizens of Madrid. On May 4 the state of alarm for this socialist and communist government begins. Madrid eludes the government because freedom is...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u94	Thank you very much, Mr. Echaniz. Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u95	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Echániz, this minister has the greatest interest in knowing the activity that our health professionals are carrying out closely, both in the hospital and in the primary care sector. In this sense, since I took possession I have visited the Gregorio Marañón, a public health hospital in Madrid, in which I was invited to a radio program and was not the counselor, but to all his management team I told them I would be happy to visit him when the counselor deemed it appropriate. I have also been to the Puerta de Hierro Hospital, also of the public health of Madrid; neither was there any counselor or member of the Community of Madrid and yet this minister was also invited to a radio program and I told the management team that I would be happy to go. And, by the way, I've also visited other hospitals. Does the hospital in Toledo ring a bell, Mr. Echaniz, which you wanted to close and which prevented it from opening? Does that hospital ring a bell? [[Applauds]] Because it is also public health, in this case, of our country. And you know what I tell you? That I already have two visits pending and I also have the utmost interest in going to visit the primary care centers, the flagship ship of Spanish public health. Is the People's Party interested in primary care? Because this government is interested in primary care. By the way, Mr Echaniz, a primary care that you have cut off when you were in the government, you have cut it systematically and this government has said enough, enough for the co-sponsors, enough for non-universality. Besides, I tell you one thing, Mr. Echaniz, you're on the campaign, it's obvious. Any questions you ask are to talk about Madrid. For I have bad news for all of you: this minister is also campaigning, but do you know in which one? In the most important campaign for this country: in the campaign of vaccination, in the campaign of hope, in the campaign of illusion. Yesterday we hit a new record, ladies and gentlemen, a new milestone: more people are already immunized than people with reported infection. And you know what? I have another bad news: more and more vaccines will continue to arrive and we are getting closer and closer to achieving the target of 70% of the country vaccinated before the end of the summer. I hope that they will join us, that they will make a sound policy, a decent policy, a policy of shouldering this country and not of being against what this Government is doing because that is against what this country benefits from, which is the best health policy tool, but especially the best economic recovery tool: to vaccinate, to vaccinate and to vaccinate. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u96	Thank you, Minister. - OF THE DEVELOPED DONA JOSUNE GOROSPE ELEZKANO, OF THE VASCO PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF HEALTH: IS THE GOVERNMENT CONSIDERING A CHANGE OF POSITION REGARDING THE MEASURES TO BE ADOPTED TO THE FINALIZATION OF THE EFFECTIVE STATE OF ALARMA? [[EAJ-PNV]] [[File number 180/00509]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u97	Question by Mrs Josune Gorospe Elezcano from the Basque Parliamentary Group [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u98	Thank you, President. Good morning, minister. Is the Government considering a change of position on the measures to be taken at the end of this state of alarm?
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u99	Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u100	Thank you, President. Mrs Gorospe, the Government is working on the statement made by the President of the Government that he intends not to extend any state of alarm beyond 9 May.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u101	Mrs. Gorospe.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u102	On 25 March, in order to follow up on the state of alarm, we asked the Health Commission precisely about this, what were the scenarios they were working on. The non-answer was his answer. In less than fifteen days, the president of the government, on 6 April, in a whisper, announces that the state of alarm will end, an issue that he confirms here on 14 April. From there, a lot of government members begin to comment in different ways. The Vice-President of the Government said that yes, there were legal instruments except for outpatient issues and that the inter-territorial council would decide whether in any exceptional case there could be a joint action, which it called for. Minister Margarita Robles adds another comment: without a state of the weapon, measures that affect fundamental rights cannot be taken, and adds: at this time we should not generate legal controversy on this issue. Yesterday, the spokesman and Minister Montero said that with the state of alarm we can take action and that the will is for the state of alarm to end on 9 May, and she said: the health authorities, the autonomous communities, should be to immunize and accelerate this vaccination. Look, the government's position on the end of the state of alarm is erratic, some say one thing and others say another, with which the only thing they do is generate disconcertingness. It is unilateral, a questionable and questionable issue, because it has neither taken part in co-government nor in dialogue with the autonomous communities, nor has it taken part in political negotiations with parliamentary groups in this House. It is regrettable that more disconcerting is added to a society that is confused and that what it needs are signs of order. It looks like the chronicle of a government to escape, to escape the pandemic. Look, we recommend that you do whatever you do, even at the last moment, to recapacitate and maintain, at least in a short period of time, the state of alarm, because to vaccinate, vaccinate, vaccinate, yes, but to prevent, prevent, prevent, also, and for that it is essential to control mobility with legal certainty to control contacts. I wish we could say that we do not need these measures. Give us the capacity and we can do it, but it has to be with legal certainty. We have to solve by vaccination and preventing to incorporate...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u103	Thank you, Mrs. Gorospe. Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u104	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mrs Gorospe, you are well aware that the declaration of the state of alarm is an exceptional instrument that contemplates our Constitution for very specific circumstances. In that we agree, it is obvious. This means that this decision is subject at all times to the evolution of the circumstances that made it necessary. I would like to recall that the state of alarm has not been constant since the beginning of the pandemic, because in the summer months we know that there was no state of alarm in our country, since the cumulative incidence was in some cases below 50. Well, what this Government is doing is working very hard, also in collaboration with all the autonomous communities and public administrations, in the firm commitment that the circumstances will improve and, therefore, the declaration of the state of alarm is unnecessary as of 9 May. If I may, I will remind you of some instruments that we have at our disposal that we already have to deal with this pandemic. We have an early detection strategy; prevent, prevent and prevent - I agree with you - the early detection strategy does. The coordinated response action paper for the pandemic also does so and sets out common indicators and alert levels under which autonomous communities can take action. You also know, Mrs Gorospe, that many of the measures that have been taken by the Autonomous Communities and that have become absolutely essential do not need the state of alarm; some, but others will not, recognize it with me; some, but others will not, especially the incidence of non-essential activities, which we know have a direct impact, because we have monitored it, in the decrease or in the increase of the accumulated incidence. And of course, Your Honor, the vaccination strategy. We are going to be in another different scenario from 9 May, not only because it seems - and I say this with prudence - that the incidence is stabilizing - we have a cumulative incidence in seven days that is below 50% of that of fourteen; we must continue to work on this scenario - but especially because from 9 May the strategy and vaccination campaign are going to make a spectacular leap, as they are already giving, and that will give us a very important immunity, added to the natural immunity of those who have passed the COVID that we already have. In any case, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to share with you that we will accompany the action with the circumstances that are taking place. In any case, I believe that this is the path we have to follow, co-governance, also being clear that the state of alarm cannot be permanent and that any restriction of rights needs legislative control or judicial control. On this path you will find us, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEVELOPED Mrs Mertxe AIZPURUA ARZALLUS, OF THE PARLIAMENTARY GROUP EUSKAL HERRIA BILDU, WHO FORMS THE MINISTER OF HEALTH: WILL YOU INCLUDE THE WORKERS AND WORKERS OF SUPERMERCATE, CAREFUL AND HOUSEHOLD AS ESSENTIAL IN THE VACUNATION STRATEGY? [[File number 180/00495]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u105	Question by Mrs Mertxe Aizpurua Arzallus of the Parliamentary Group Euskal Herria Bildu.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u106	Thank you. Good morning, minister. The VOCID vaccination protocol has placed professionals who were vital during the first confinement on the tail. That's why we're asking if it will include supermarket, care and home workers as essential in the vaccination strategy.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u107	Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u108	Thank you very much. Mrs Aizpurua, vaccination is being carried out in accordance with an exquisite and rigorous process, which is the vaccination strategy, which is based on a solid basis, important technically speaking, but especially on robust ethical principles that have to do with vulnerable people. It is a strategy that we have agreed among all and for all. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u109	Mrs. Aizpurua.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u110	Look, I think there are few scenarios that are better suited to tell what the pandemic has meant than the box of a supermarket, almost the only place that citizens could go, that they could visit at certain times. They did not want to be essential, they did not ask; they did not ask to be essential, but they were essential. All the visible signs of the nerves, the anguish, the fears, the fears that we all had passed before their eyes, and for this reason a year ago they were applauded, encouraged, encouraged and also - I remember - there were cases in which they were subjected to harassment for their work. Do you remember those written notes that appeared in the portals and in the mailboxes of supermarket cashiers, in which neighbors asked them to go to sleep elsewhere for fear of infection? They are essential workers who are now invisible, because of those so-called essential groups - whoever has agreed - it is now the cashiers and housekeepers who have lost that degree. They are no longer essential and we have already invisibled them. There were voices in his time, a year ago, that said that COVID affected everyone equally. And it wasn't true. Nor is it being true now, when it is necessary to protect the groups who need it, because it is not protecting everyone who is essential equally. And yes, of course yes, Minister, of course there will be criteria, and some will be technical, other health care providers and other ethics, and all of them, mainly technicians and health care providers, are the ones who have to determine the main lines of action in the pandemic. But precisely in that 'not all alike' of affection and necessity is where politics has to act: cashiers and carers, mostly women, essential to work, not essential to immunize. Receiving knots. Do what is right and what is right and vaccinate.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u111	Thank you very much. Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u112	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Aizpurua, I am as empathetic as you are with the group you have mentioned, of course, but one of the most difficult issues is to have to choose which groups we prioritize in the face of an arrival in a first quarter of limited doses of vaccines that do not occur in this second quarter. Is it not important for people working in the field to provide us with food? Isn't it important for people to go to sea to fish for us to provide us with food and have done so at this stage? Of course I do. But do you know what the most important risk factor associated with COVID is? The age factor. And what has prioritized the strategy? To protect the most vulnerable: first the people who were in the residences, who were the most beaten - both those who resided and the health and social health professionals - with spectacular results around the drop in mortality in these groups; also the front-line health professionals, who were the ones who were taking care of us and those who are still taking care of us; also the large dependents - we will agree that we must also protect them - and, of course, the over eighty, the over seventy, the over sixty. What we have done, ladies and gentlemen, according to the characteristics of the vaccines that were coming to us, has been to administer them with ethical criteria and difficult to adopt. Of course, all groups have the right to be vaccinated, but once vaccinated, those who are at the highest risk, those of older age, the next criterion has to be the age group. To go by age is the fairest thing, it is what has the most equity, because everyone has the right, I insist, everyone has the right. Otherwise, we enter sectors and everyone has legitimacy. I can't tell you how many writings from different collectives want to be emptied of, and we legitimately want to do so. But we have good news, Mrs.Aizpurua: yesterday for the first time were more people immunized than the infected ones notified. More and more vaccines are coming. Only in this quarter will 38 million plus the 6 million Pfizer that accumulates, therefore, more than 42 million doses of vaccines alone in this quarter. From next week, April 26, and all of May, there will be 1.6 million doses of Pfizer alone, plus Janssen's, which, by the way, we received yesterday. I want to tell you that in a record time we are going to be vaccinating more and more people and will be all the collectives, according to the age groups and those who establish themselves... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u113	Thank you, Minister. - OF THE MINISTER OF INCLUSION, SOCIAL SECURITY AND MIGRATION: DOES THE JOINT PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHICH FORMS THE MINISTER OF INCLUSION, SOCIAL SECURITY AND MIGRATION: CONSIDER THAT A DIFFERENT MODEL OF HUMANITARIAN ASSISTANCE SHOULD BE IMPLEMENTED TO WHICH MIGRANT PERSONS CAN BE DISTRIBUTED BETWEEN THE OTHER COMMUNITIES ON THE BASIS OF OBJECTIVE CRITERIA, [[File number 180/00499]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u114	The question from Mr Pedro Quevedo Iturbe of the Joint Parliamentary Group, addressed to the Minister for Social Security and Migration, is postponed to the next plenary session. - OF THE DEVELOPED Mrs. CAROLINA SPAIN, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF ARRANGEMENTS: DOES THE MINISTER THINK THAT SPAIN PAY A LITTLE IMPOSED? [[File number 180/00502]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u115	Questions to the Minister of Finance. Question from the representative of Carolina Spain Queen of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u116	Thank you, President. Does the minister think that the Spanish pay little taxes?
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u117	Madam Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u118	Thank you, Madam President. The minister, like the executive, what she thinks, Mrs Spain, is that in the tax system everyone has to contribute according to their economic capacity and receive according to their needs; that is what inspires the constitutional principle and that is what this and any government has to make effective. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u119	Mrs. Spain.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u120	Look, we are not only the only country in Europe that has raised taxes in the middle of the pandemic, but it wants to raise them again by saying that fiscal pressure is below the European average. To the left the Spaniards always pay few taxes, and that's not true. You talk about fiscal pressure, but be serious, talk about fiscal effort, which takes into account per capita income, because the Spanish fiscal effort is among the highest in the OECD: the quarters. Or do you want us to pay the same taxes with lower wages? Look at the economic model of the People's Party: increasing revenue collection by lowering taxes. There is Andalusia, where inheritance tax has been eliminated and income collection has been increased, or Madrid, which is where lower incomes are paid and 63% more than the average has been raised thanks to lower taxes, with zero deficit, with low debt level, opening investments. Freedom, ladies and gentlemen, and financial autonomy. By the way, thank you for campaigning for Ayuso and sinking his candidate Gabilondo with the tax bust. Minister, if you can't increase your collection by lowering taxes, go away, you're not qualified to be the Minister of Finance of the Kingdom of Spain. Your obsession with Madrid has already cost you an earshake from your Chief Calviño, because, of course, for you to harmonize is to raise taxes. Hey, equal the bass. It can also reduce unproductive public spending, or is Marlaska's running tape essential? What a shame! Grab your wallet 'cause they're gonna bury us in taxes. That is the only truth of this Government of lies. If you want to put the inheritance and donation tax back in Andalusia, tell the 8030 families who had to give up their inheritance. [[Applauds]] Minister, do you know why it's going to happen to history? He will go into history for wanting to raise the inheritance tax in the year in which 100,000 Spaniards died by the COVID. How do you think, Minister, to punish family members in that way? And who do we believe? You, Gabilondo, Calviño? None, because only the People's Party will lower taxes. Tax hell or freedom. Always freedom, Minister. [[A lady Member: Very well!-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u121	Madam Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u122	Thank you very much, Madam President. Madam Spain, I would be at least a little modest in saying the lies that you have uttered in your speech. [[Laughs.-Applause.]] A little modesty, because it's not all worth it in politics. You claim that with lower taxes the collection is increased. It's a lie, Mrs. Spain. [[Rumors]] It's a direct lie. Another lie you have said: that the Community of Madrid is practicing a fiscal policy that is that of the People's Party. Why don't you lower taxes, for example, in Galicia? Why don't you do it in Castile and Leon? Why don't they do it in Andalusia? Perhaps because Moreno Bonilla, Mr Feijóo or Mr Mañueco do not want and are in the antipodes of what you have just done in this speech, Mrs Spain? [[Rumors]] I will tell you: no; they do not lower taxes like the Community of Madrid simply and simply because their speech is a lie, because the effect that capitality produces in Madrid is what allows Mrs Díaz Ayuso to have lower rates and get the same collection. The same is not true in Andalusia. By the way, I would like to remind you that the inheritance tax was dropped in a socialist executive with the agreement with Citizens, and that is there for you to check. It wasn't Mr. Moreno Bonilla, it was Mrs. Susana Díaz who lowered the taxes. [[The Rumors Continue]] It also happens in Galicia, where Mr Feijóo maintains a fiscal burden that allows him to provide essential public services.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u123	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u124	Do you know what's going on, Mrs. Spain? That with the lie no elections are won. With the lie all you are doing is favouring the interest of a few, because when you talk about lowering taxes to the Spaniards, the Community of Madrid is doing just what it is doing is lowering taxes to the rich, because the property tax, as you have said, is a tax that is paid, Your Honor, from amounts that the average families of this country do not only have, but to which they will never be able to aspire. So, take note and don't lie. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPUTATE OF THE FRENCH BALENDER, OF THE CITIZEN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF ARRANGEMENT: DOES THE GOVERNMENT KEEP YOUR INTENTION TO SUBMIT TAXES TO FAMILIES AND SMEs IN THE MIDDLE OF THE CRISIS DERIVED FROM PANDEMIA? [[File number 180/00498]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u125	Question by Mr Edmundo Bal Francés, Member of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u126	Mrs Montero, with respect - and don't call me a liar, please, in your reply - does your Government intend to maintain the tax hike it prepares for families and SMEs in the midst of this pandemic?
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u127	Madam Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u128	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Bal, you will obviously understand that, when you lack the truth in an intervention, we all have an obligation to unmask. In your case, when you ask me whether this government keeps raising taxes during the pandemic, the answer is radically no, because this government has never said that it will raise taxes during the pandemic. What's more, you mean... [[Laughter]] I don't understand the laughter of your ladies and gentlemen, I don't think this issue has any kind of grace. It seems to me that taxation is a very important debate and that it must be taken seriously. You can't play with taxation to try to play the People's Party and VOX. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u129	Mr. Bal.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u130	You always talk about harmonisation and use euphemisms, but, in fact, they never harmonize downwards. You guys want to raise taxes. I really appreciate the sincerity of the Socialist Party, which has destroyed Mr. Gabilondo's campaign, which said he was not going to raise taxation. What is a shame is that Moncloa is dedicated to confronting the Community of Madrid with the rest of the autonomous communities; what is a shame is that Moncloa is campaigning for a candidate; what is a shame is that you follow Mr Rufián's instructions against Madrid. I ask you, do you share that view that Madrid is a tax haven or that in Madrid we do tax dumping? Really, having died more than a hundred thousand Spaniards, does it seem right for you to raise the inheritance tax, the inheritance tax? Don't they have empathy, have no soul, or are we in elections? Because, indeed, in Andalusia we lowered the inheritance tax, but it is that in Castile and León the inheritance tax was removed thanks to Citizens. The OECD points out that Spain is the country that has lost the most wealth, its direct aid does not reach the pocket of the Spaniards, they want to raise societies, successions and assets. We ask you to lower VAT from the light; Brussels tells you you can, but you don't want to. We tell you to admit the deduction in the IRPF by purchase of usual housing, and you don't want to. We tell you to finance science with up to 2% of the gross domestic product, and you don't want it, and we don't have a Spanish vaccine. We, in the efficient allocation of resources, ask that European funds be awarded on an objective basis, and you prefer the Plus Ultra system. Mr Sánchez comes here to boast up to ten times of European funds, but he does not present the national reform plan. What needs to be done to collect more, Mrs. Montero? We must lower taxes and increase economic activity, which is what Citizens have done in the Economic Council of the Community of Madrid. The entire international press speaks of the miracle of Madrid, which collects more per capita than the rest of the autonomous communities with lower fiscal pressure. I say to you: For every euro you raise to the Spaniards, we in the Community of Madrid will lower it. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u131	Thank you, Mr. Bal. Madam Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u132	Thank you very much, Madam President. Do you know what's coming to your attention, Mr. Bal? The first political formation that spoke of fiscal harmonization in this country was Citizens. The first documents that exist on fiscal harmonization were made by Citizens. The first to consider removing tax asymmetries in the autonomous communities was Citizens. What are you talking about now when you say that this executive wants to harmonize taxation? How come you don't now agree on harmonization when you were the pioneers of it? Mr. Bal, not everything in politics is worth it. It's not worth it that, now that I'm in an election campaign, I'm interested in sending a message to the voters, and then, when I'm not, depending on the territory where I'm moving, I have to send a different message. Look, I will make sure that taxation is a serious issue, because we are 7 points away from tax pressure across Europe and because collection is key to ensuring that quality public services can be provided. Has this House not learned anything during the pandemic? Have we not learned that it is necessary to maintain public health so that when the vaccines arrive, all people have the right to be able to put them on and there is no economic obstacle? You speak and lack the truth. They talk about the economic miracle in the Community of Madrid. Well, it looks like voters aren't about to recognize that economic miracle, Mr. Bal. You seem to be more in tune with the People's Party's speech, but I do not think that this Congress should focus the debate on the elections in Madrid, which is the only thing we have done over the past month. I think this government has to be serious. It has established a group of experts to be responsible for anticipating the modernization of the tax system and the tax system. That's what it's about. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u133	We are now dealing with the appeals addressed to the Government. Urgent inquiry by the Parliamentary Group Euskal Herria Bildu, to the Minister of Defence, on the dismantling and closure of the firing range of Las Bardenas Reales. For your defence, Mrs Pozueta Fernández has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u134	Madam President, Minister, Mr Guztioi. [[The Lord]] First of all, I would like to send our support and solidarity to the trade unionists in the cleaning sector arrested by the National Police in Nafarroa for defending a worthy agreement and denouncing the wage gap they suffer; detained for defending their rights. Social struggle and labour struggle are not a crime. [[Pronounce words in Basque]] Madam Minister, yesterday at 9:55 a.m. I received a message from a neighbor of Corella who said to me, "War noise in our village." [[pronounces words in euskera]] Yesterday and today military maneuvers are being carried out in the military polygon of Las Bardenas - aerial activity call it euphemistically -; military maneuvers that the neighbors and neighbors of Arguedas, Valtierra, Caparroso, Tudela, Ablitas have been enduring for years and decades: hunting flying over their heads, dangerous military material that threatens their health, fear if an accident like the more than thirty that has occurred again occurs. Do you believe that the citizens of these peoples can live like this? No, Mrs. Robles, they can't live like this and they've been putting up with it too long. It's time to dismantle the firing range and shut it down permanently. The dismantling of the military compound in Las Bardenas is one of the permanent topical issues in Navarre and we would like you to stop being so because today you announced your final closure. I would like to explain to you the political peril of the closure of Las Bardenas, the decades of lies, of unfulfilled promises, of false declarations that shipwrecks and shipwrecks have been listening to for years; lies on the part of all governments and all parties, yes, also of their own. In 1951 the Franco dictatorship decided to install in Las Bardenas a shooting range that is today the only one of the Spanish state and the largest in Europe; around 2000 hectares of military use in an area of exceptional interest of 39000, in which NATO has prepared its intervention in the main wars of the last decade, from the Balkans to Syria. Navarra has been, by imposition, a training camp for many of the unjust wars in which NATO forces have participated. Although the firing range came into operation in 1951, it was not until 2001 that Bardenas and Defensa agreed to an annual lease payment. In 2008, during the Zapatero government, they signed the renewal of the agreement until 2019; they agreed to pay 7 million annually and from 2019 to double the amount of the rent to 14 million, in addition to allowing the renewal until 2028. Anyone would think, Minister, that you intend to buy the will of the Navarra society, which for the most part asks to close the shooting range of Las Bardenas. I'm sorry to say no, it's not going to work. We moved on to the political plane. Both UPN and PP and PSOE, your party, Mrs. Robles, have repeatedly failed to fulfil their promises to dismantle the firing range. Politicians and institutions have been changing their opinion and approach according to their political and economic needs, from clear opposition to their unbridled support, always according to their political interests, never according to the interests of shipowners. We have seen how UPN and PSN, the governments of Navarra or the community of Las Bardenas themselves have called for their dismantling and years later, without blinking, they have overly defended the continuity of the military installation. I hope today you will end this way of acting and respect and fulfill what has been promised so many times. In 2008, the late Carmen Chacón, Prime Minister of Defense of her party, stated that a lasting agreement was needed for the stability of the parties, contrary to what the PSN itself advocated on June 15, 2004, as it then voted in favour of finding an alternative to a polygon - open quotes - that in terms of environmental, security and socio-economic and sustainable development is a genuine nonsense. That said his game. It never came true. Also in 2008, the existence of a pact between UPN and PSOE involving the renovation of the Las Bardenas firing range began to be mentioned. It is clear that that covenant has indeed been fulfilled. In 2014, on March 18 in particular, the Board of Spokesmen of the Parliament of Navarre repudiated Minister Pedro Morenés for claiming that military spending was a social expense. I hope you didn't intend to say such barbarity today. The NHP also supported this reprobation, but abstained from the request for the dismantling of the firing range. In 2015, in the face of the accident on 23 July, the Socialist Youth asked the Government of Spain, the Foral Executive and the dismaying municipalities to reconsider the suitability of the location of Las Bardenas Reales polygon. They weren't heard either. And so and so, promise after promise, of non-compliance in breach, we arrived when the firing range was declared an area of interest to the Defense, which would allow the Government to expropriate the land if the municipalities chose in December 2028 to give up the lease. I would like to remind you, Mr Robles, that this agreement provides that a hypothetical termination of a contract will be resolved by express agreement of the parties or by exclusive resignation of the Ministry of Defence. That is, only you, your ministry, can renounce its use. Will you, Mrs. Robles? Last year, in response to a written question from our group, you showed a total ignorance of the existence of discontent among the population. He didn't know. He told us that he had received no complaint and that he had no record of any complaint. Curious, because any member of your party in Navarre would have informed you otherwise. In Navarre there are protest movements against the shooting range of Las Bardenas for more than twenty-five years; twenty-five years demanding a solution that never arrives. Don't you think it's time? And they demand, in addition to its closure, economic alternatives for the peoples, a plan of economic revival of the area in order to be able to stop living from war. It sounds hard, yes, but it is the cruel reality, because Las Bardenas Reales has a very considerable potential from an environmental, tourist and recreational point of view. That is why proper management of all these resources, which is respectful of the park and the economic and social reality in which we live, is urgently needed in order for its citizens to have an alternative to end the purchase of de facto wills, because that is what the 14 million annually they receive for bearing the firing range. Mrs Robles, huge amounts of money are being used in the Las Bardenas firing range from the public arks for military training for NATO, to prepare for war, while the pension hut is being emptied by the public services and citizens' rights are being cut. Don't you think economic priorities should change? I also do not want to forget another contradictory aspect of this conflict. On repeated occasions, the possibility arises that Las Bardenas may become a national park, but you will agree with me that having a military facility in Las Bardenas is a hangicap, something incompatible with the aim of enhancing a natural park. Today, the military use of the park remains above the rest of the uses and this prevents it from being able to constitute and value Las Bardenas as an economic future bet for the whole area. The Royal Bardenas of Navarra were declared natural park in 1999 and a year later reserve of the biosphere by Unesco; a reserve of the biosphere used for shooting practices and ammunition testing. Do they seem compatible to you? Because, as you will know, military maneuvers are not contemplated in this type of protected areas, Mrs Robles, because of your affection for the ecosystem, fauna and, especially, birds, even if your ministry overlooks all this. Finally, we cannot forget that the use of this firing range is at the service of NATO's interests and not of the culture of peace. I would like to remind you that Navarra, along with the Basque Autonomous Community, said no to NATO, a non-routine. This firing range contradicts that popular decision, don't forget. As we said no to NATO, we were also pioneers in facing up to military service, driving the movement of submission that after so much force had and so much spread, because the shipwrecks and shipwrecks we have always said no to the army and war, and yes to the values for peace and coexistence, which still persist today. I end with a famous phrase from the Anti-Polygon Assembly, which has developed so many years of struggle and which I hope you will share: There is no payment that compensates for the risk, no one wants a polygon on their land, nor shipwrecks and shipwrecks. Milesker.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u135	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Next, I have the floor on behalf of the Government, the Minister of Defence.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u136	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, the question I have the honour to answer today concerns the shooting range of Las Bardenas Reales, a military facility of 2244 hectares located in the natural park of the same name in the Foral Community of Navarre. The history of its military use is well known, part of the assignment, on April 14, 1705, during the reign of Philip V, for the twenty-two entities that then had privileges over Las Bardenas. The bare property of the polygon belonged to the State until, by order of October 10, 2008, the Ministry of Economy and Finance recognized the ownership of the land in favor of the Community of the Royal Bardens. They are part of this community of 19 municipalities, two valleys and a monastery. From this recognition by the State, the Ministry of Defence became a tenant of the polygon and local entities that make up the community are tenants. It is under the responsibility and supervision of the Air Force and constitutes its largest training centre, having been declared of interest to national defence in 2000 and has been used as a firing range for 70 years under the agreements signed. It houses the air quarters with its same name, on which also depends the military airfield of Ablitas. The last agreement between the Ministry of Defence and the Community of the Royal Bardenas for the lease of these lands was formalized on 2 December 2008 with a validity that extends until the year 2028. Under this agreement, the Community of Royal Bardenas is receiving an income that will revert to the economic well-being of the twenty-two conjoining entities that make up it. This effect is also reflected in the actions of the infrastructure for the Bardenas Reales natural park aimed at improving the environmental quality of the park. The 2008 agreement was put to the vote by the Royal Bardens Board and only one of the twenty-two entities abstained. The aerial exercises carried out in the shooting range of Las Bardenas contribute significantly and in a necessary way to the national defence. Exercises of all kinds are carried out in it. In addition to the training of weapons systems, training is provided for transport units, paratrooper launch units and air deployment support units. Also others - yes, Your Honor - focused on humanitarian missions, such as air rescue drills, which carry out the Air Force Air Rescue Super Puma helicopters, or practices - yes, Your Honor - of demining and deactivation. Thanks to the skills acquired in Bardenas, the men and women of the Armed Forces and the State Security Forces and Corpses safely carry out their humanitarian missions abroad and in the framework of their permanent missions. Because, Your Honor, the concern for the security and training of men and women - yes, men and women - of the Armed Forces who work with dedication, generosity and dedication to preserve peace, freedom and our rights - peace, freedom and our rights, I repeat - is our priority. The Ablitas military airfield there also serves as a base for fire-extinguishing activities, phytosanitary pest prevention campaigns and other activities promoted by the Navarra Foral Community and by other neighbours. The planes that carry out exercises there are deployed at the Zaragoza base and the route they use to reach the polygon does not fly over any population. The conditions of use of the polygon by aircraft are regulated and follow strict safety criteria. All activities are carried out with maximum security, avoiding unnecessary discomfort and any risk to the civilian population. Also, air routes to and from the polygon are designed not to overfly populations or housing centres. On the other hand, like many other areas of our geography and against what the first intuition might make believe, military activity has facilitated in this territory, not subjected to human pressure, a free evolution that allowed the scientific community to carry out studies of ecological succession without alteration. Military use has motivated a natural development of steparian vegetation and fauna in this area, which has been preserved from other uses. That the natural potential of Bardenas has not compromised the firing range is demonstrated by his statement as a biosphere reserve in the year 2000 - the declaration of the year 2000, I repeat -, that is, fifty years after the beginning of military activity and while it has continued to develop. Scientific studies carried out for the Community of Bardenas on the flora, behaviour of birds, to which you referred, and other aspects show that the activity of the polygon has a low or no impact on birds; in fact, there has been a gradual increase in the bird population in recent years. As far as flora is concerned, the best preserved area of Bardenas is the firing range itself, which has completely lacked human activity since 1951. The Constitutional Court, in its judgment of 18 April 2012, maintained the validity of the formal declaration of the polygon as a natural park, made by the Foreign Law 16/2000 of 29 December, and also found on its legal basis that this Foreign Law would have to be applied in a way that would safeguard national defence. I would also like to point out that the Bardenas firing range has an environmental management system that complies with ISO 14001 for the maintenance of the range. The Ministry of Defence is the substantive body for environmental impact assessment and also complies with the established standard for the prevention and extinction of forest fires in the manoeuvring and firing fields. As you should know, the Ministry of Defence is always working with all local and regional administrations to facilitate the integration of different interests. For this reason, the relations between the Royal Barden Community and the Air Force are excellent. For all these reasons, the dismantling and closure of the Bardenas Reales firing range is not envisaged, as it serves the fundamental interests of national defence and also helps to preserve the environment. Your group may have an anti-militarist speech, which I do not share, although I can respect it. But, look, if there is anyone who is currently in this country, along with other collectives, working for the citizens, and for the most vulnerable citizens, it is precisely the Armed Forces. Don't detect them so much. In Operation Balmis they have been on the front line where no one wanted to be, with the deceased, in the residences, disinfecting. They are currently in Lebanon, Latvia, working for peace and security in the world. They need training and in this field of shooting is done, but keeping the maximum security, surveillance and personal protection measures and also for the environment. So, Your Honor, from the respect that your intervention gives me, I am sorry to say that part of totally wrong approaches and that, to the extent that this polygon is essential for national defence, which affects us all because it is necessary for everyone and because, moreover, there is an agreement until the year 2028, the dismantling or closure of the firing polygon is not foreseen by the Ministry of Defence. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u137	Thank you so much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] I give the floor to Mrs Pozueta Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u138	Mrs. Robles, I must once again regret your refusal to close the firing range of Las Bardenas. I must admit that we had hoped for it, but for this reason it is no longer a new pack for Navarra society, which demands and awaits the dismantling and definitive closure of the firing range. He has again disappointed the shipwrecks, and has also made deaf ears to the neighbors of Tudela, Valtierra, Caparroso, because the regulations regarding flights over the towns are not complied with. Ask and you'll get the reality. Look, I'll be very clear, I propose a solution. José Antonio Gayarre, deputy and outlaw parliamentarian of UPN, nothing suspicious of sharing interests with my formation, and who was at the head of the Board of Las Bardenas from 1985 to 2013 stated in 1997: I would dare say that the solution of the problem could be sought through referendum. This is a site that we do today, that they commit themselves to a citizen consultation so that it is the Navarra population that decides what they want to do with the shooting range of Las Bardenas and that they commit themselves to accept its result. It is a just solution, it is a democratic solution. Therefore, I encourage you to take into consideration the holding of this consultation, so that it is the shipwrecks and shipwrecks, so that we alone decide the future of Las Bardenas and its surroundings. So, Minister, we can put an end to a situation, with a conflict that is going on too long. Dare and bet on a solution. I finish as I started, with the words of the neighbor of Corella: We do not want war noises in the skies of Navarre, we do not want war noises in the sky. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u139	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] To conclude the debate, I have the floor on behalf of the Government, the Minister of Defence.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u140	Your Honor, I keep your last words: no one wants war noises. That is precisely why our Armed Forces work in Spain and in the world for peace, because they are the first defenders of peace at risk of their lives. You know what? 188 men and women of our Armed Forces have died defending peace in the world, very young people, who were generous enough to put their lives at risk to fight for peace in Spain and the world. I believe that they deserve no advice from anyone because they have given as much as they have: their life, for peace. [[Mr Sánchez del Real, from the VOX Parliamentary Group, applauded]] Otherwise, I can tell you that you are in your right to speak on behalf of those who vote for you, but not on behalf of all Navarra's citizens. The Ministry of Defence has signed an agreement until 2028. I told you that only one of the twenty-two entities abstained. I don't think you guys are more representative than the rest of the people. Therefore, this is an absolutely necessary polygon for training for peace - I insist -. You're in tics of the past, in tics that you should overcome. When I hear you talk about NATO, I say, for God's sake, why do people always stay in the past and not look at the present and towards the future? Look to the present, look to the future, look to peace, and there you work to train people so that they can protect themselves and fight precisely in defense of rights, freedoms and peace. [[Applauds]] - the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress, to enable the Government to explain the tax charges it is planning to carry out A CABO AND ITS POSITION WITH REGARD TO THE FINANCIAL AUTOMATION OF THE AUTONOMOUS COMMUNITIES. [[File number 172/000098]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u141	We continue with the urgent interpellation of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, so that the Government can explain the tax increases it intends to carry out and its position on the financial autonomy of the autonomous communities. For your defense, Mr. Garcés Sanagustín has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u142	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, 275 years after Goya's birth, the dream of reason produces many tax monsters, many tax monsters. I was not going to think, seeing moreover the transmutations, the changes, the intellectual, moral and political transformations that have occurred over the last two years, that I would see Catalan Republicans clamoring for fiscal egalitarianism; I did not expect to see in any way the Basque nationalists seemingly pragmatic and professional of Moyúa saying that they give absolutely equal the autonomy of the common territory while preserving their quota and their convention. Obviously, that doesn't matter. What has surprised me, Minister - and I have to tell you - is that you have allyed yourselves in this convolute that you are fighting for fiscal egalitarianism upwards, that is, what you have called fiscal harmonisation, which is nothing more than a neologism within that new language, which we will then talk about, which uses modern socialism to increase taxes, to increase fiscal pressure. I will tell you one thing, within that dream of fiscal reason there is an advantage, and it is that for all those who deny the autonomous state, for those who stigmatize or directly anatomize what is the complex and territorial reality of our country, fortunately the territorial counterweight has served to be able to juggle in a direct way that dystopic dream that your president and your government, Mrs Montero, have of equalizing taxes for all, because we have discovered that, in addition to the fiscal model that you propose, there is a fiscal model of your own, as is the Madrid model. He'll tell me, they're campaigning. However, you started the campaign two years ago, because it was you who started talking about Madrid two years ago, before there were elections, before there was an attempt at a motion of censure, before hasty elections were called, as they were called. I will tell you some of the comments we have heard from the presidents of the different autonomous communities governed by the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party. I'll start with Mr. Barbon. Mr. Barbón, who has a tendency to work little and to hyperbole, said that Madrid's taxation is a big black hole that can be carried forward by the entire autonomous state, and remained so calm. Madrid is going to lead the entire autonomous state. Freedom, knowledge, common sense; let's see exactly where aphorisms work right now. Secondly, the president of my community, Javier Lambán, arrived and said that the disloyalty and insolidity of Madrid had to be put to rest. My father died - I am very sorry - also a year ago and I assure him that he would not have saved so much money if he had known what he had to pay the Aragonese Public Treasury, a very humble person. He was saving every day, looking at how much he had in the current account so that in the end in a disproportionate tax adjustment, which is the one in Aragon, he obviously had to pay what he had to pay. On top of that, he accuses the Madriders of insolidarities. You know, Minister, that 78.2% of Madrid's tax collection, of the taxes levied on Madrid residents, is intended to finance services from other autonomous communities. You are well aware that 62% of Madrid's tax revenue from the Fund for the Guarantee of Fundamental Public Services is intended to finance the basic public services of other autonomous communities. The truth is that today I rejoiced when you suddenly made a manifestation of will saying: I also lowered the tax on inheritances and donations. Congratulations. That nothing happened at all, Mrs. Montero? That day she felt satisfied because she also thought about Andalusian citizens, and absolutely nothing happened, because lowering taxes is also freedom, it is also economic freedom, it is also a manifestation of thinking about others, about individual well-being and about collective well-being. But I'm still here. We arrived at one of the inclines, we arrived at the president of the Junta de Castilla-La Mancha when he said that famous phrase that the current legislation is a trapping legislation that forces us to cheat, and he especially cheats Madrid. And the president says that he keeps a 95% bonus on inheritance and donation tax. I have never seen a more absolute and explicit recognition of guilt as that of the president of the Junta de Castilla-La Mancha, who says that lowering taxes is cheating while he lowers them. Well, I don't even talk about Revilla because Mr. Mazón isn't here. Revilla will already explain these tax trivialities in some frivolous night program, because it is where she usually explains all her territorial policies. But we arrived at Ximo Puig, who is already on trial. Ximo Puig comes to say the following: The capital effect is producing disturbances that we have to avoid. That is said by the same community president, Minister, who has been trying for three years to approve a capital letter for Valencia capital, to improve Valencia's taxation. It turns out that Madrid is the vacuum cleaner for all problems, but the capitals of the autonomous communities are not vacuum cleaners. We have become a permanent 'Madrid' steals from us, but the capitals of the rest of the autonomous communities do not. [[Applauds]] To the extent that you have passed specific laws, it was in 2006 that you passed the Capital Law of Madrid because you had to recognize your special legal status, because you have to provide greater services, because urban concentrations are material realities, are evident realities, cannot be dispensed with. That's why I'm surprised they talk so much about the Madrid vacuum cleaner and don't talk about the vacuum cleaner of other capitals of autonomous communities when they're looking for capital laws permanently: for Zaragoza, for Valencia, for Seville. And it's okay with me, and it's okay with our group, because there's a genuine identity, because there's a concentration of services. Don't blame Madrid, because Madrid isn't to blame. I insist, Minister, do you know how long it has been the capital of Spain Madrid? Since the year 1561. Do you know when the Community of Madrid took the first position in economic development? For eleven years. Before it was Catalonia, before it was Barcelona, even Valencia. The problem is that distrust, uncertainty, the permanent overflowing of independenceist irredentism, are ultimately undermining the foundations of trust. That's why companies are moving. Let's not be fooled, minister. Therefore, precisely - I have said it many times in this rostrum - we have had to modify the famous dogma of 'Spain steals us' to 'Madrid steals us'. But make it clear to you, because I think we have to make it clear. You sometimes use some surprising arguments. For example, he said that the European Commission had also harmonised taxes. Of course, of course. We have assumed our membership of the European Union. If tomorrow the European Union determines that there is less fiscal space for the Member States, would not autonomy be reduced? The autonomy of national sovereignty would be reduced if we relaxed fiscal margins. If you consider unilaterally that the fiscal margins of the autonomous communities must be lowered, you are obviously reducing fiscal autonomy. You have an identity problem sometimes with the term autonomy, political autonomy, financial autonomy. I know that you left Marxism years ago, what I didn't know was that you had pointed to egalitarianism, which is a more complicated issue. Don't go back to Marxism. There are already some who tend to return to Marxism, but I have seen that you have supported egalitarianism. If we had to make a new dictionary of the Fiscal Academy of the Socialist Party, which would not be real, I would recommend to Pedro Sánchez that the next time he plays football with his majesty King Philip VI reminds him of his republican values and that the figures should be Pablo Iglesias as a player dressed in the Republic T-shirt. But I'll tell you one thing. When you talk about co-governance, do you know what you should talk about? Co-responsibility, autonomy. And when it comes to autonomy, you should talk about freedom, about freedom to determine the policies of income and expenditure, about freedom to determine what my budget balance can be within the limits that the State has to normalize, something that you helped to do with the reform of article 135 of the Spanish Constitution. That's the reality. When you talk about fiscal harmonisation - let's end the neologisms, let's end this permanent linguistic baroqueism - you want to talk about raising taxes. When you talk about rationalizing public spending, you talk about lowering public spending. On the other hand, I almost recovered Zapatero's dogmatic doctrine, because he had no problems saying adjustment plan. Minister, tell me the truth, but tell me. Who do we listen to, the president of the government, you, the candidate, pre-candidate, or Gabilondo candidate? Do we pay attention to Mrs Calviño or do we pay attention to the document which the President of the Government presented for the eighth time, which was already more mocked, the other day here?; a document expressly stating on pages 15 and 75 that we need to narrow the fiscal gap with OECD countries, where we are already talking specifically about reducing the budgetary imbalance and raising taxes. Who do we listen to?, Gabilondo?, or Gabilondo is that disorderly, decaffeinated, malnourished and abandoned leader in Madrid to his fate, that we don't already know whether you support him or not? Because every time you say something, you deny it. Do we listen to you, do we listen to Sánchez or do we listen to Minister Calviño, who said the other day that they were not going to raise taxes? Or do we listen to the Resilience Plan? But, say it, because we can't put those four sentences in the same urn, because they're a nonsense. Tell the citizens clearly why they are going to raise taxes. Make it very clear, because this is the end of the getaway. You played the escape daily, by episodes, circumstantially. You knew that at a certain time the Commission was going to demand a budgetary rebalancing plan. How bad luck you've come with the Madrid campaign! It is that they have arrived with the campaign of Madrid and the poor Angel Gabilondo has remained with the foot changed, the poor is trying to keep the indefensible while you hold a radically different position. That's the reality. I'm closing up. Tell me, do you really raise taxes by ideology or by ideas? You know what Theocritus used to say. Theocratic said that those who have little intelligence what they have is ideology and those who have more intelligence have ideas. This is tax dogma, this is tax ideology? Because you raise taxes if we grow to 2% or if we fall to 11%. Do you do cyclic, countercyclical politics? Do you do politics, anti-politics? Tell me what they're doing and explain it to the citizens. Do you always have to raise taxes? They were already doing it when we grew to 2%. And do not use the European Commission's argument because the European Commission is not demanding an increase in the tax burden. By the way, my partner Carolina Spain has explained it very well, do not confuse citizens between the concept of fiscal pressure and that of fiscal effort. According to Frank and Bird's indexes, which are the major indices of international prosecutors, Spain occupies the fourth country in fiscal effort of the OECD countries - the fourth - among other things, because an average Spanish citizen charges 24,000 euros and a Danish citizen charges 53 000 euros. So, I'll tell you one thing: please make it clear. In their document - it concludes - they already recognize that they are going to raise taxes. Make it clear now. If it is socialism, apply socialist doctrine, be it ideology or idea, but say it and no longer keep in ignorance and vilo neither your candidate nor the Spanish citizens.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u143	Ladies and gentlemen, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u144	Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u145	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] On behalf of the Government, I now give the floor to the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u146	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Garcés, I sincerely aspire to have a serious debate on taxation with the People's Party. I hope that this House will be able to talk about a matter that is essential for the construction of the welfare state, which is essential for at least making possible the part of a social contract that all citizens have acquired through the Constitution; that it will allow, at least in what is basic, all citizens to have the right to universal access to health, to education, to housing, to the ability to enjoy those services that can be beneficial to all citizens, to have the capacity to discriminate on the basis of who they are who have to contribute. Because here there are debates on taxation that do not discriminate, who do we talk about, the middle class, the workers, the big incomes, the big estates, or whatever, Mr Garcés? Because when you talk about lowering Spanish taxes, what Spanish people are talking about what you're talking about is property tax, inheritance tax or donation tax? Mr Garcés, if the International Monetary Fund, nothing suspected of being of any rupturist ideology or of any leftist ideology of course, is proposing that in order to get out of the pandemic situation it would be good, convenient for the countries to make a temporary contribution, exceptional, in order to be able to get out of the economic situation as soon as possible, do you believe that the International Monetary Fund has become Marxist? When the Biden Administration is raising something that has also been discussed in the governments that have been led by the People's Party in Europe on tax harmonisation in Europe, that has been raised by Mr Rajoy's Government, Mr Montoro's, and also with a lot of logic and common sense, Mr Garcés, since it is about establishing a collective project in which everyone, of course - you asked me and I answer - has sovereignty, but if we really build a collective project, we have to have similar rules of play that do not make certain countries, because of their economic situation or because of their geostrategic position, have advantages over other countries that cause capital movements or that directly cause company flight to other environments. And that's what the People's Party that we've known so far has always shared and always put it on the table. What fiscal debate do we face with you? What part do you represent? You know what I think, Mr. Garcés? That you are increasingly, or probably now intensified because we are campaigning, only represent the interests of the Community of Madrid in those issues that you like to refer to. And it seems a lie that in this House, where the Members who make up your parliamentary group come from all the autonomy of Spain to safeguard the interests of Spain, we speak only and exclusively of Madrid and also try to confront the rest of the territories, which is what you do every time you come up to this rostrum. You speak of the miracle and have spoken in two previous questions of economic miracles in Madrid. You see, there is a capital effect that no one denies, but neither here nor in Europe; a capital effect that obviously consists of a concentration of income, a concentration of assets, a concentration of companies in a tax model where we all want to move forward so that everyone can contribute according to where value added or consumption actually occurs in relation to the profits of a company. Do they share it or do they not share it, Mr. Garcés? Do you share this idea that is being promoted throughout international taxation, Pillar 1, Pillar 2 of the OECD - at this time, also with the serious problem we had with the US administration - to produce an international debate for a higher return on corporate tax, which in all parts of the world is clearly insufficient compared to other tax figures - and this minister does not say it, is said in all international reports - or what happens to all taxation on wealth? It may well be, Mr Garcés, that certain figures are probably being overtaken and we have to rethink how and how we have to contribute from wealth to a better economic capacity to sustain public services. Why are you afraid of this debate? Why are you afraid that a committee of experts represented by a wide variety of different ideological backgrounds will have the ability to diagnose our tax system, to anticipate what changes we have to make for the future? Because the economy has changed, because economic expression has changed and now we have an analog taxation that fits very well with the figure of traditional businesses, businesses that comparatively pay more taxes than large digital multinationals, that is, they are harmed by this tax system. And you are opposed to this emergence of a new economic activity contributing to the same extent as SMEs, medium-sized enterprises, self-employed people and all those who have a more appropriate taxation to the part that is at this time legalized, produced, resulting in this opaque way, under radar, all economic activity that is not in the assumptions that were invented forty years ago and that are today the ones that light up the taxation that we have at this time in most European countries. What do you not share, Mr. Garcés? What part of this diagnosis is that you don't see? Because, of course, the People's Party has us used to a debate about taxation that is really cheating. You, in the years 2012 and 2013, when you were in government, raised taxes up to forty times. And Mr Montoro in this rostrum again and again justified why it was necessary to increase the collection, in order to be able to accelerate the economic impulse, the support of the public services, the defense of the equality of the Spaniards. This is what happens when you rule and come to power. But it turns out that now that you are in the opposition, you use a motto that makes no more sense than to say a phrase that is then not concrete in anything. Because, I insist, when you talk about lowering taxes to the Spaniards, which Spaniards do you mean? If what you are defending, Mr Garcés, is the lowering of taxes that are directly related to high incomes or to large estates. Look, you said before that I lowered the estate tax in Andalusia. Yes, in an agreement with Citizens; I used to remind Mr. Bal. You didn't bring it down, which Mrs. Spain says every time she gets up here. It's a lie, Mrs. Spain, you didn't bring it down, it went down in the previous government. You'll like it better or you'll like it less. I ask you, Mr Garcés, do you really think that when Mr Feijóo - which I think he has some tax proposals that you have to listen to too - he thinks - he has an absolute majority in Galicia, you do not need anyone - not to lower the inheritance tax or not to lower the property tax, you think Galicia is a tax hell? Do you think Mr. Feijóo is a heartless - as you call us the members of this bench, well, your party, probably not you - and what you want is to harm all the Spaniards? Why do we attend such a fallacious debate? You say: You, with the creation of the expert group, are contradicting Mr. Gabilondo. It's just that it's so gross the headline, it's so gross the lie! One thing is the tax system at the level of Spain, the modernisation of our tax system, taking into account the role that taxation plays in the orientation of the productive model, because, when we review taxation, it is not only about raising taxes, it is also about lowering taxes, making bonuses, putting certain incentives to economic activities that we have to promote in relation to the change of the value chain of the industry, with the incorporation of renewable energies, with the exit to the market of empty housing, with the ability, in short, for companies to bet on R & D+i.All this needs to be reviewed, Mr Garcés, because we probably have to put in place fiscal incentives that allow the reorientation of the productive model. You say that it is contradictory with what Mr Gabilondo has said, but Mr Gabilondo what he has transmitted is from his fiscal competence, which cannot be dealt with by the Government of Spain. That is a lie, the Government of Spain cannot act as an autonomous president, it is as much a lie as the People's Party is saying; I insist, the Government of Spain cannot interfere in the proceedings... No, Mr. Garcés, you cannot interfere in the actions of the autonomous governments. And of course they make fiscal autonomy possible. On the other hand, you have always shared the idea of harmonization, always also Mr Montoro, and, by the way, also the group of experts that created the People's Party. Do you remember, Mr. Garcés? The group of experts created by the People's Party proposes fiscal harmonization in Spain within a fork, within a fan that does not generate unwanted situations of grievances between territories. That is what the paper you prepared with the expert group says. But Mr Montoro, who was the last Finance Minister to have had the People's Party and for a long period of time, shared these issues that had to do with fiscal harmonization. What People's Party do we attend now? To the People's Party of the Community of Madrid which, by making this slogan its campaign, has abducted the rest of the Members who do not defend their territories, who do not pose what their territories need? Because then we talk about autonomous financing, Mr Garcés, then we talk about local financing, then we talk about greater aid to businesses, then we talk about not withdrawing economic incentives prematurely and we also talk about fiscal consolidation. You said it. What do you think? What does fiscal consolidation have to do with cuts, with a reduction in public services, that we have to tackle the debt deficit problem that leaves this pandemic situation shortening citizens' rights? What is the proposal of the People's Party? Because what the Government of Spain has proposed is simply and simply to surround us with talent, to have the ability - as you have done - to create a group of experts to do your work and to present a proposal within a year; that is, February 2022 so that we can all study those proposals and this House can decide, with regard to all the proposals that arise, the revision of the tax figures...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u147	Your Honor, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u148	I'm done, President. ... that they arise and, therefore, choose accordingly. But let's be serious, if we want to talk about taxation, let's have a serious debate, preserving citizens' rights, really talking about who, how and how, and not just, Your Honor, trying to carry a slogan that leads to nothing and that all it does is weaken public services, delegitimize the tax debate so necessary and so pedagogical that to build society we need each one to contribute according to their capacity and we all receive according to our need. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u149	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Garcés Sanagustín has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u150	Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you, Minister. Look, the concept of lies is a concept that is not exactly identified with the People's Party. When lying or missing the truth, it can be for two reasons: indecency or ignorance. Out of indecency or ignorance. Therefore, if four people say about the same fact different things are either opinions or are missing the truth. When someone says they're going to lower taxes and another says they're going to raise taxes or they don't find out or someone's lying. This is like the famous logical principle, put you on a sheet on one side 'the phrase on the other side is false' and on the other side also put 'the phrase on the other side is false'. You play this game logically permanently, what happens is that it is worth confusing the citizens. In addition, you have spoken of the war between territories. Neither the Madrid Community nor any community governed by the People's Party has failed to respect institutionally nor has it said that there is any form of dumping or disloyal action against any autonomous community governed by the Socialist Party. I don't know him, not even when I was on the tax and financial policy boards, minister, I don't know him. And yet, two years ago you began to accuse the Madrid Community of fiscal dumping, which was misused in addition to the term fiscal dumping, because it is false. But, look, you are always comfortable in the division, in the forward-looking division, in the historical division, in the division of territories. Why was Spain stealing and now stealing Madrid fifteen years ago? Do you know what the difference is? That you have allyed yourselves in that intellectual component which is very good for the independenceists and the nationalists to attack now the Community of Madrid, as you govern and are your allies will never attack you. That is the problem of strangeness and dilution of responsibility. Political irresponsibility seeks external responsibility and you were looking for it from the very beginning. This is not a rally, you do appeal or invoke the Madrid riot. You want to take Madrid and you want to take it not by the ballot box, you want to take it obviously by the law, and here comes the problem. Yes, the Financing of Autonomous Communities Act must now be amended. Listen, if you have just acknowledged in this rostrum that you must not interfere in the financial capacity of the autonomous administrations, you have just said so. You say: I can't tell Mr. Gabilondo what he has to do. Mrs Ayuso and Mr Feijóo, as well as Mr López Miras, are also asked to do so by all the presidents and, of course, the president of the Board of Andalusia, who does not interfere, because he is another model, because - he said at the beginning - fortunately, the territorial counterweight has allowed us to reflect and represent a different fiscal and economic model. I say that for the negators of the autonomous state. Fortunately, this territorial counterweight has existed and it has been possible to externalize and is now one of the most important evidences that there is a completely different economic and fiscal model. Hey, what about the capital effect? Does Washington have capital effect? Does Bonn have capital effect? Do you know why economic activity falls in Catalonia? For the institutional misadjustments and, of course, for that absolutely slippery dream of independence they had. There fell 40% of the Catalan regional economy in one year, 40%. That's the reality. Speaking of who should be taxed, obviously all Spaniards. But make it clear, tell us now, because as far as the committee of experts is concerned, we have moved from the committee of experts that we did not know anyone, who was neither committee nor experts, to the committee of perfectly identified experts. As far as plural ideology is concerned, let me say that I do not agree. They are more committee experts, but they are not of plural ideology those they have appointed. They're not, they're not. You could have proposed to us that we should have said one of the names, and you have unilaterally named them. You have a very peculiar way of understanding the public administration. Do you remember how the governing council was going to work out how the Community funds were going to be distributed? With 50% of the vote the Ministry of Finance plus its quality vote. Come on, neither Franco nor Franco. Why bring together the tax advisors of the Autonomous Communities if you have a high-quality vote and have 50% votes? But how intelligently one can think of such a thing in an autonomous administration and in a responsible administration! Tell me clearly, are they going to constitute the tax on common property and the tax on large fortunes in the field of State administration, yes or no, knowing that there is practically no European country? Are you going to keep the inheritance and donation tax, yes or no, and in what situation? Are you going to increase the income tax? Tell us in which row and in which section. Don't leave everything to the committee of technical experts, you will have some idea, because obviously if you leave it to the committee of experts it would already mean the absolute detachment of your political responsibility tasks. The corporal. But, above all, don't talk to me about tax redistribution you, you, who left us a deficit of 90 billion and we had to pay suppliers over 68 billion and we had to make a tax adjustment immediately because, if not...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u151	Mr. Garcés, go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u152	I'm done right now. Don't tell us that. We need eighteen months to reverse the economic situation; you, even in eighteen years, will not reverse this economic situation. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u153	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] To conclude the debate, I have the name of the Government, the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u154	Thank you, President. I will try to give clear answers to your second intervention. Do you speak of the majorities proposed at the sectoral conference and speak of Franco? Do you know that those majorities are those that govern the Fiscal and Financial Policy Council? Not what, Mr. Garcés? [[Mr. Garcés Sanagustín makes negative gestures]] I challenge him. It's just that you say no and you lie. The majority that was raised for the sectoral conference is exactly the same as the Fiscal and Financial Policy Council, by the way, the majority that you maintained during all the years you have ruled. [[Mr. Garcés Sanagustín makes negative gestures]] What do you mean, they're franchisors? We are going to be consistent, and if not, I will tell journalists to look at how the majorities are in the Fiscal and Financial Policy Council, which is the same thing that was raised. With regard to fiscal dumping, Your Honor, what do you call when the People's Party in the community of Andalusia, Valencia or in one of the autonomous communities where you do not govern a few years ago proposed that taxes should be lowered because, if not, capital would flee to the Madrid Community? What do you call for the People's Party, acting as an opposition, to demand from the regional governments that they were not from Madrid the tax rebate, according to them, because there were massive corporate and income leaks to the Madrid Community? Isn't that the tax dumping, Your Honor? Or what is that? It's just that you have to be consistent and have memory, Mr. Garcés, in order to keep an account. By the way, if you are one of the highest that low taxation produces an increase in collection, why then, in 2013, when you needed an increase in collection, did not lower taxes? You raised them; you raised the tax on hairdressers, Mr. Garcés, in case you don't remember that tax reform. If it was so obvious to you that the tax rebate was leading to an increase in public revenue, why, when we had the worst state of public revenue, did it result in an increase in taxation and people paid more taxes? You contradict yourself in your own theory simply because it does not hold up, because you use taxation as a mere campaigning claim, and when you reach governments you raise taxes, Your Honor. It is therefore a lie to the people's party's discourse in this rostrum or outside this rostrum. You speak of the confrontation between territories, and I have heard what you said before I believe that Mrs Spain regarding Madrid and the rest of Spain when she pointed out that you pay for the public services of other autonomous communities. Do you know anything to remind me of this? The 'Spain steals from us'. You are practicing in the Community of Madrid a sort of nationalism that looks like 'Spain steals us'. They now say that they pay taxes and that in Madrid and the public services that are provided in other autonomous communities are paid. Sincerely, Your Honor, it is offensive for you to make this speech about each one's fiscal capacity to contribute, because you know what, Mr. Garcés? Taxation is not paid by the territories-that is another great fallacy, it is a lie -, the territories do not pay taxes, the citizens pay them. And what fiscal justice means is that citizens, each according to their capacity, contribute in a homogeneous way to the public coffers. Does it make sense for some rents to contribute in one part of the territory half of what others contribute in another part of the territory? Is that tax justice, Your Honor? When we hide behind territorial taxation, we are obviating that it is the individual citizens who pay the taxes and that the Government of Spain, which governs it, must have the capacity to ensure that this taxation is fair and that there are no unacceptable differences from one part of Spain to another in the economic contribution of each one or in the reception of the public services that all citizens have to have, we live where we live in Spanish geography. And that is what is behind, at least, the debate that the Spanish Government is pushing. No one has to tell Mr. Gabilondo what he has to do, Your Honor. Each candidate, in her capacity, raises her fiscal stake, just like Mrs Ayuso. Here they are not told anything or interfered with one in the competences of the presidents; here what is transmitted is that the Spanish tax system has to have characteristics, an architecture that does not cause differences that are not justifiable anywhere in Spain and, therefore, neither in the provision of public services, for what is fundamental a fair tax system, nor in the economic contribution that each one makes according to their capacity.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u155	Your Honor, you must finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u156	I'm done, President. This is the question, Mr Garcés, this is the debate that we should face and not use taxation as an element and a bold weapon by saying one thing in the campaign and then another where they govern, but above all by trying to bring to the minds of the Spaniards that taxation does not serve, that taxes do not serve anything, to look for life, to save anyone who can, which, in short, is what they practice with an irresponsible speech about which I hope, ladies and gentlemen, that they will react. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u157	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] - OF THE VOX PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, ON THE MEASURES TO BE TAKEN BY THE GOVERNMENT TO RELIEF THE SPANISH TAX EXERCISE. [[File number 172/000100]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u158	We move on to the urgent inquiry by the VOX Parliamentary Group into the measures that the Government is going to take to alleviate the Spanish fiscal effort. Mr Figaredo Álvarez-Sala has the floor for his defence. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u159	Good morning. Madam Minister, I come here today with a lot of dialogue and I want to convey to you a series of ideas that I hope will somehow capture and mark the fiscal policy that you are planning for the coming months. Before I come to the specific issue, I must say that I am partly in agreement with you on one of the issues that you have dealt with in the previous initiative, in so far as the People's Party has indeed taken very similar fiscal measures to those which you have taken or have taken. Indeed, the People's Party increased taxes, even more so than it demanded in its United Left Day, the late United Left. I would also like to mention the previous debate because, Minister, I agree in part with your speech and I hope that you will join us, as we have put forward a non-legislative proposal to limit and end the issue and the injustice of the Basque quota. The speech you have just made here is virtually identical to the argument we have in that GNP. That is to say, I am pleased to know the Socialist Party's even partial support for this initiative. [[Applauds]] Gentlemen of the PNV, they come curved. On the other hand, Minister, I would like to comment on a slightly more personal issue. Last week you quoted an entry that I was supposed to have posted on Twitter and I want to tell you it's a mistake. I didn't publish that question about the Civil War, and I wanted to tell you to keep it in mind, so you know it's not true. So I put it on the record the next day, after reviewing all my social media and analyzing it. I'm telling you so I know. I ask you, Minister, to loosen the fiscal effort that the Spaniards have to make in Spain a little bit. In the last few days we have known that you are planning an increase in tax pressure in Spain - tax pressure, you stick to that - and it is curious because you have announced it without caps. They have announced it in the middle of the election campaign and in a way honors them because they do it face-to-face. They recognize that they want to raise taxes to the Spaniards, which is fine because at least they come from the front, although that, in a way, is a historical anomaly. Do you think, Minister, that the Courts, parliamentaryism in Spain, is born precisely because the powerful wanted to fry the people at taxes and the people revolted. That's where parliamentarianism is born. We regret that you announced it to the media very much before you had even obtained permission or asked the Spanish people, represented in this House, for their opinion. [[Applauds]] On the other hand, we see that in socialism the discourse of increasing taxes flows very easily. It is a very easy speech, they have it very rehearsed and flowing, even though you in this House said four times that you do not increase taxes. St. Peter denied three times and you denied four, and look how St. Peter ended. [[applause]] That is, we understand that taxes in Spain will end very high too. Sad. You base your argument, basically, on three fallacies, in our opinion. Of these three fallacies, the first is that of fiscal pressure. They always refer to fiscal pressure. The fiscal pressure in Spain is around 35.7 % of GDP, i.e. out of every 100 euros produced in Spain, the state collects 35.7 %, but if we add social contributions and social security obligations to that tax burden, this pressure increases to 47 % of Spanish income. That is to say, the Spaniards work 47% of their time to pay the tax in the end, to pay the state. It's a ratio that puts the hair at the top. Madam Minister, the profit margin of the average business in Spain for hospitality can be 20% if it is well handled, 15% or 10%. Professional services are around 30%, audits, lawyers, etc., but it is that the state obtains on average from each business of Spain, of each Spanish, 47 % profit, if we limit ourselves to the tax issue of the Tax Agency 35,7% profit. It is frightening, Madam Minister, that this is what we are talking about naturally and without almost asking for forgiveness every time taxes are going to rise. [[Applauds]] There is a concept that is called the day of fiscal liberation, which in Spain would be June 26. That day is supposed to be the day when the Spaniards finish working for the state and start working for their own life, to pay their rents, their leisure, etc. June 26th. Until 26 June the Spaniards are working to meet their tax obligations. Madam Minister, this issue that I bring to you from the tax effort, which is not fiscal pressure, as has already been put forward, is that the tax effort - so that all Spaniards who listen to us understand it - weighs the tax rate for each country's disposable income. It is not the same as a 35 % tax effort in Spain as in Denmark, it is not the same as a 35 % tax on a person who collects 100,000 euros, who would still have 66 000 euros to live, but a 35 % tax on a person who collects 18,000 euros a year - which, by the way, is the most frequent salary in Spain - which would have 11 800 euros left to live. Madam Minister, we cannot approve the fiscal pressure in Spain to that of other countries because, simply, it would be a drama for the Spaniards, who would be expressed as oranges, which is practically what you seem to want. Spain, as has already been said, is the fourth OECD country with the greatest fiscal effort. If you want to harmonize, what you could do is equate Denmark with a fiscal effort, which has a tax effort fifteen times less than that of Spain. Madam Minister, first fallacy, that of fiscal pressure. The second fallacy is that supposed correlation that you have also brought between fiscal pressure and the welfare state. You systematically make us believe - already it seems that that speech has silenced - that higher taxes are more likely to result in a state of well-being. This, Minister, is not true. We have to pay for health, we have to pay for education, no doubt, but it is that Spain has 387 919 politicians for 40 million inhabitants, compared to Germany which has about 100,000 politicians for 81 million inhabitants. That is to say, in Spain there are 969,8 politicians per 100,000 inhabitants, compared to 123,46 in Germany; almost nine times more politicians in Spain than in Germany; that is not the state of welfare. [[Applauds]] I would like to mention that - this, Madam Minister, I do not do for personal reasons, although I know that you were in that government, but remember this - the socialist governments of Spain stole EUR 800 million for the unemployed. Then, the Spanish taxpayer who pays taxes sees how his taxes are destined to pay whores and coca to the councillors or presidents of governments. [[Applauds]] So that, Minister, is not a welfare state. Another example that touches me very closely is Mr Villa, the political godfather of Mrs Lastra - who, unfortunately, is not here today - who was a unionist and deputy in the Asturias assembly for the Socialist Party. He planted himself in the bank with suitcases full of bills, cash. Minister, this is not a welfare state. All this squandering money could have been saved and taxed. I continue with an item from the General Budgets of the State that I analyzed which is the item dedicated to the public administrative business and foundational sector on an estimated basis. It accounts for about €6 billion and pays for things like the Casa África Consortium, whose director was the director general of the PSOE; the Barcelona Free Zone Consortium, whose president is the PSC; parking the one-person limited company free zone, whose sole administrator is the PSOE, etc. This, Minister, is not the state of welfare, and this is what Spanish taxes are devoted to. They make up this item 6 billion. We continue with the question of Plus Ultra, 53 million euros donated to a dark, opaque company and with loans in tax havens. It is an issue that sucks, Minister, EUR 53 million. Air Europe has been injected with EUR 400 million of Spanish taxes to sell Air Europe to Iberia for EUR 500 million, i.e. Iberia receives a gift of EUR 400 million. Will it be possible for Iberia to acquire Air Europe and acquire that credit? Perhaps so, but what we ask you to do is to explain it and justify it, because the Spanish taxpayer's feeling is that his money is being squandered, drained like sand into the hands of a socialist government. [[Applauds]] The third fallacy, minister, is that it is the rich who pay. This is also incorrect, because, Minister, only 40% of the taxes collected throughout Spain are directly related to income - these taxes include the IRPF, property tax, inheritance tax, etc. -. That is, the remaining 60% of the collection in Spain does not depend on wealth, it is consumption, it is spent, it is the tortilla pin that you take here in Congress or the shoes that we bought before yesterday. That pays taxes and that's what the rich spends and the poor spends. And within that 40% of income taxes, only about 50% of income is collected from income of more than €30,000. You'll tell me if having 30 000 rent is rich people's. Only 20% of Spain's total collection is paid by people for having incomes above €30,000; ultimately, it is not paid by the rich. I'll give you an example, Minister. A nurse in Asturias paid for her inheritance 30,000 euros of inheritance tax. If you come here to tell us and tell all the Spaniards that a nurse is a millionaire, say it, but say it face-to-face. I repeat that he paid 30,000 euros for his inheritance, for the savings of a life; a nurse, who is not Bill Gates. This is the third fallacy based on his motivations and explanations to raise taxes. You have two models, the Greek model, which has failed, and the Irish model, which is successful. This island, which had no capital effect, as you say of Madrid, is small, tiny, with no large assets, and has succeeded and prospered. So, Minister, the three fallacies you use to raise taxes are not valid, and I remind you of them. First - I start from behind - he talks about it being the rich who pay. This is not true, they pay for middle classes and workers. Secondly, you say that fiscal pressure is the right indicator, and that is not the case, Minister, the right indicator is fiscal effort. And finally, the falseness of the correlation between fiscal pressure and the welfare state. We've seen it's not like that. So, Minister, I hope that these ideas will serve you - as you see, I come in very good faith - to react and perhaps to reorient the general thrust of your new fiscal policy. Thank you so much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u160	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] I now give the floor, on behalf of the Government, to the Minister for Finance.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u161	Thank you very much, Mr President. I don't think we have to fool ourselves, Mr. Figaredo. I'm telling you now that it's going to be very difficult for your group and mine to have some sort of coincidence in fiscal policy. It's going to be difficult, because taxation is probably the clearest expression you have to know what the model of society we each advocate, and the model of society you defend looks like an egg to a chestnut to the model of society that defends my party, Your Honor. Therefore - I do not know if you are listening to me, Mr Figueredo - we have no point of coincidence in this matter. I would like to say to you, Your Honor, that you also lack the truth in many matters, and in which you are not interested, you have recourse to elements which, of course, express without any cover your lack of respect for the constitutional architecture. I do not know the bill - I say this in relation to the allusion it has made to the PNV - that they have brought to this House, but what I do hear in this rostrum is to deny the constitutionality of the Basque Economic Concert. [[Mr Figaredo Álvarez-Sala speaks words that are not perceived]] No, it's just that you don't care, you don't care what the Constitution says, because you're from a party that doesn't defend constitutional principles, doesn't defend democracy, doesn't defend equality, doesn't ultimately defend the rights of all citizens. [[Protests.-Applause.]] The Basque Concert is a purely constitutional instrument, Your Honor, and if you do not agree, you look at it or at least have the courage to say in this rostrum that you do not share the Constitution. I want to say to you, Your Honor, that this model, in addition to representing very well what is being proposed, you only have to let it speak in order to be able to see - if you listen to me, Mr Figueredo, with the attention that I have listened to you, despite not sharing your speech... - to move the model of society. [[Mr Figaredo Álvarez-Sala is speaking with Mr Espinosa de los Monteros de Simon]] You say things so tremendous for social construction, so tremendous for democracy, as here the Spaniards until June 26 work to pay the State and then work for their own personal interests. [[Mr Figaredo Álvarez-Sala is speaking with Mr Espinosa de los Monteros de Simon]] Are you listening to me, Mr. Figueredo? Otherwise, we will finish the debate here. [[Mr Figaredo Álvarez-Sala speaks words that are not perceived]] Well, since I'm watching you talk to your partner... [[Applauds]] It is just that I am addressing you, that the rest of the House already knows the position of the Socialist Party. I have just discussed with the People's Party, and if you have an interest in this inquiry, I want you to listen to me; and if you have no interest, we leave it here and there is absolutely no problem. I told him that you have raised or say that a national day should be created, on 26 June - I don't know why that date - because up to that date workers, people work to pay taxes to the State. Who is the state, Mr. Figueredo? It's just that I don't understand your concept of state. I mean, in your opinion, people work and until June 26 they work for others, don't you? Oh, they work for me! They work for me!Look, as you will understand, this debate seems disquieting to me and it seems to me that, of course, they have to be clarified on the issues they have raised. [[Several Members: For you]] However, let us go to concrete things like you say I have failed the truth. I'll make it very clear to you. You retweeted the following tweet, Mr.Figueredo: They want another civil war from Zapatero; they seek again 1936, but who seeks 36 gets 39. This is a tweet that you retweeted and that I told you the other day; and if you now also deny it, there is the footprint on your social networks, Your Honor, because there are issues that are difficult to raise. [[applause.-Mr Figaredo Álvarez-Sala makes negative gestures]] You have made a speech here in which, in the end, what you propose is a model of society of the saved who can, save who can. I mean, here no one pays taxes, here no one contributes to the common coffers, here where the money is best - doesn't it ring a bell? - it's in the citizens' pocket. Sounds like that expression to you, doesn't it? [[Mr Espinosa de los Monteros de Simon makes affirmative gestures]] Mr Espinosa de los Monteros says yes. That is, everyone here is looking for life, ladies and gentlemen; anyone who has been lucky enough to be born in a family that has a high birthplace or a high income, will be able to subscribe to a private health insurance policy, will be able to take their children to private university or will be able to hire a private residence. [[Mr Espinosa de los Monteros de Simon and Mrs Olona Choclán make negative gestures.-Protests]] A person who is not fortunate enough to have been born in a family with these levels of income, to be given, Your Honor, to seek life and therefore, if he does not, to have been born in a family with other possibilities or with another capacity. I do not share that model of society. It is that this model of authoritarian society, that model of elite society, where only a few can enjoy rights, while the rest we have to live from charity, Your Honor, is in the antipodes of the DNA of the Socialist Party. We do not seek attention to vulnerable people on the basis of charity or on the basis that some contribute because they voluntarily consider it so. We defend a society based on citizenship rights in the fact that a Spaniard, because he is a Spaniard, must have access to free health care, free education, housing policy, inclusion policy, vital minimum income and basic elements, Your Honor, for which we assume the alliance, we own the constitutional social contract, we push it and we increasingly try to get citizens to have last generation rights. [[applause]] For this, Your Honor, the one who has the most, those who have the most economic capacity have to contribute more, and those who have the least economic capacity will have to contribute to a lesser extent, but in the end we will all have to receive what is basic, in what we have agreed, in what we think is essential for a society to be called a society, for it to be a civilized society, so that we can all receive medical services when there is a solution to our health problem, or we can boost the talent of our young people when a family does not have the capacity and has to go to a scholarship system, which is not charity, but is a right for society to take advantage of its full potential and not to be mediated according to the level of income that each one has inherited by birth in one or another family. That is the difference between the political formations that we are represented here. [[Applauds]] Your Honor, I find the speech you have made here concerning politics and collection extraordinarily dangerous. Apart from being a lie to all that you accuse on this side of the Congress of Deputies, to the Socialist Group, and that it is tremendously dangerous, I would like to remind you, Mr Figaredo, that I understand that you are Mr. Rat's nephew, right? Oh, all right! You are Mr. Rat's nephew and you have the floor to come up to this rostrum to talk about issues that have to do with corruption, as you have said here. [[Mr Figaredo Álvarez-Sala makes affirmative gestures]] Be careful! Don't get nervous - don't get nervous -, you have the crystal jaw; you have... [[Applauds.-Protests]] [[Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u162	Wait a minute, minister, wait a minute. Can we keep quiet, please? He will then have the VOX spokesperson time to answer whatever he wants, but we will continue in the debate as we were. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u163	You have the crystal jaw, Your Honor, after the barbarities that you express in this rostrum. As I was telling you, you have to have a quilt to raise that issue as Mr. Rat's nephew. [[Protests]] Yes, I insist, and you have to have a quilt, Your Honor, to come here and talk about politicians who live out of nowhere when Mr. Abascal was collecting 100,000 euros from a foundation where he never appeared. You have to have a quilt to come up to this rostrum and talk about these issues. [[Applauds]] I was telling you, Your Honor, that I find it extraordinarily serious that you justified the tax rebate by moving that policy is useless. You've made an anti-policy speech on your way up to this rostrum. And I ask you, Mr Figaredo: Why are you a Member? If you have this concept of politics, why have you run for election? Why are you occupying this seat? Why do you charge a Congressional salary if, in your opinion, politics is the worst thing that can happen to a society? I say to you that we read the Journal of Sessions of this meeting that we have this morning, because you have made quite an argument against politics by saying little less than what is left in the countries, what is left in the governments, it is the politicians who, according to your opinion, are probably dedicated to stealing from them, to taking away the aspirations of the people, to throwing down on the ground everything that allows personal expectation - that is what you said here this morning in the gallery - and you have denied the ability of the public, the ability of governments to intervene within the usual activities to produce the necessary balances that seek equality. [[Rumors]] You keep talking, Mr Figaredo, because you're not interested in what I'm saying in the rostrum. Therefore, those who turn politics into useless are you, who come here, make your speech and then leave and don't even listen to those of you who are here in the rostrum. [[Applauds]] You do not believe in the welfare state, you - I insist - believe in a dangerous society in which the law of the strongest is the one that prevails, the one who can be saved, so that there is no public services, that there is no capacity to intervene in any of the areas that seek the social contract of which all citizens have been endowed. Your Honor, for your own sakes, for your own sakes, it is absolutely useless any consideration that comes out of the democratic process, out of the collective process - you are still not listening to me, I am going to speak to my bench - and out of everything that allows us to be better. [[Applauds]] I'm gonna talk to you about fiscal autonomy. I do not know what speech you made in the rostrum, because you have contradicted yourself about fiscal autonomy. You can't talk about fiscal autonomy, Your Honor, because you don't believe in autonomy. You don't believe in the main. It is not that you believe that each territory has the capacity to exercise its decision-making capacity within its competence, but that you will directly liquidate the autonomy, as you also advocate within your discourses. You don't believe in the different, you demonize those who are vulnerable, you demonize immigrants, you carry a hate speech. In short, Mr Figaredo, I am extremely pleased that your tax model and mine are radically opposed. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u164	Thank you very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u165	I'm asking for the floor. There's been a lack of decorum. You can't deny me the word.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u166	I do deny it. I give the floor to Mr Figaredo Álvarez-Sala. [[Protests.- Mr Spinous of the Mounts of Simon: It is a shame! You are a sectarian!-Mr.Siancas Simancas: A respect for the Bureau!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u167	Sit down and hold back. Mr Figaredo, you have the floor. [[Señor Espinosa de los Monteros de Simon utters words that are not perceived.-Simoncas Simancas: Gamberro!]] Wait a minute, Mr. Figaredo. He called the order for the first time. [[Mr Figaredo Álvarez-Sala, already in the rostrum, addresses the Vice-President]] I'm talking to your fellow speaker. He called the order for the first time for a serious insult to the presidency. [[Pausa. - Mr Figaredo Álvarez-Sala addresses the Vice-President again.]] You now have time to answer whatever you want. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u168	In any case, Mr. Simancas, calm down, that I see you very upset, almost sweating by the siens in your chair. Madam Minister, I came up here and told you this with a very dialogueal spirit, and you did not stop disrespecting me all you could, you lied even to my family, something in my opinion totally unnecessary. You want me to pay for my parents' inheritance and you must also want me to pay for the successes or mistakes of my ancestors. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European ……]] If an uncle of mine makes mistakes, I have to pay for them. However, if my father gets a wealth, he can't inherit. Do you realize, Minister, the inherent incoherence in your speech? You say I defended fiscal autonomy. I mentioned fiscal autonomy only to highlight once again the inconsistency in his speech. It makes no sense for you to ask for fiscal harmonization with Madrid, but not for the Basque Concert. If you make arguments that are applicable to Madrid, these arguments should apply to all subjects who are in the same circumstances, in this case the Basque Country. That is why, Minister, your speech is inconsistent and therefore inconsistent. You want to shudder and squeeze the Spaniards as if they were oranges and worth any argument. That's why they invent, distort, turn around and are inconsistent and inconsistent. It gives you all the same. You say I want to impose a national day of fiscal liberation. I don't want to impose anything, Minister. If he had listened to me, instead of looking everywhere, as he is doing - now he is with the helmets, as he was, by the way, talking to his companions - he would have known. I did not say that I want to impose a day of fiscal harmonization, I tell you that there are economists who study as a figure, a simile, on the day of fiscal liberation. That day is 26 June, and every Spanishman works until 26 June to pay taxes to tax collectors, Minister, until 26 June. Obviously, it's a simile, I don't want to impose anything; I care very little about it being celebrated that day. Then you say that we are unconstitutional because we attack the Basque regime. Minister, what's unconstitutional is stealing 800 million euros from the unemployed, who stole your party, wasn't mine. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European ……]] It wasn't Mr Espinosa de los Monteros who stole 800 million euros when you were a tax advisor. Madam Minister, you were the accountant and partyer of that government and stole 800 million euros in your face, which in the trial was proven to have been spent on whores and coke. [[Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank you very much for your excellent report. Bravo!-The Minister of Finance, Montero Quadrado makes negative signs]] That's unconstitutional. Unconstitutional is to steal 80 million euros through a screen company, call yourself Isophoton or call yourself whatever you want; that's unconstitutional. [[Applauds]] I am sorry to raise these sour issues, Minister, because it came in a very dialogic tone, but you want to attack me. I didn't have this in mind, but if you say that VOX is unconstitutional, because I tell you that unconstitutional is stealing 80 million and 800 million, the 800 million of Andalusian unemployed. Can there be anything more vile? And you talk about social services and you fall into one of the fallacies that I put in front of you. Increasing taxes does not amount to improving social services, and we have the most tangible proof in Asturias. In Asturias, his colleague Barbón spends the money of the Asturians on promoting the bable, a language that has no native speakers, for which there is no real interest and there are hospital places in the hospitals of the interior of Asturias that are vacant because doctors are not paid enough, and those who want to take their children to the pediatrician in the area of Tineo have to travel kilometers and kilometers to find one, those who want to go to the cardiologist in the area of Navia have to go to Galicia or go to Oviedo, traveling kilometers for hour and a half to reach his consultation of cardiology. [[applause]] And that, Minister, is not the state of welfare, as much as you come here to repeat the same lies over and over again, and progressively the Spaniards are realizing that. [[Applauds]] You ask why VOX is here. VOX is precisely to replace you, because in Badalona, throughout the famous red belt of Madrid and in the red belt of Barcelona VOX begins to replace you, because you, who came here to say that you represented the workers and the middle classes, are forgetting about them and only remember their pocket, to put in your pocket money, money and money, your own greed, and talk about great professionals. You, Minister, have devoted your entire life to politics. Sir... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u169	Mr. Figaredo, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u170	I'm just finishing up, but she's been given twenty-three seconds, she's given me eleven before I interrupt.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u171	Don't waste your time and continue.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u172	Mr. Simancas has given a blow in his life only to be in politics. And there are many, like you, in your party who have only devoted themselves to politics. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, applause.- Various Members: Bravo, brave!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u173	Thank you very much, Mr Figaredo, your time is up. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] To conclude the debate, on behalf of the Government, I have the floor of the Minister for Finance.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u174	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Figaredo, you do not see yourself, above all, as regards the last part of your speech, you do not see yourself, but when you are heard from the outside the hatred that you promote is a dangerous hatred. [[Protests.-Several Members: Hala!]] I take you very seriously, Your Honor, I take you very seriously, because within that appearance of a story that someone can call chascarrillo hides, Your Honor, everything that this country has taken more than forty years to leave behind. [[Applauds]] That's what's hidden, and it's serious and dangerous. I don't know why you've offended yourself when I told you that you were Mr. Rat's nephew - look at you, there are some of your colleagues who continue to intrude from the rostrum; I'm going to keep talking in the tone I'm talking about - and I don't understand. [[protests]] I don't understand it, Your Honor, because Mr. Rat, whom I know, has been tried, has been convicted and is in prison; that I know. [[Rumors]] This has not happened, Your Honor, with all the reports you have made about autonomous presidents, the behaviour of the Socialist Party, or any issue on which you have put your hand here. [[Mr. Figaredo Álvarez-Sala: Are you not condemned?]] [[Applauds]] The strategy is very easy: it is only a matter of punctuating political life to produce detachment from citizens towards democratic participation, and creating a breeding ground to sow authoritarianism, it is that simple. That's the catechism of the VOX party, that's what you practice. I want to tell you, Your Honor, and I think I can speak on behalf of most of the groups in this House, that neither the Spanish are going to allow it, nor the whole of the political groups that we are represented here, are going to allow you to sow hatred in Spanish society, causing confrontation among the citizens, we are not going to allow it. [[Applauds]] If you want to make the speech of Asturias, you go to the Principality of Asturias to make the speech. Do not hide inside the Congress of Deputies to avoid also making the opposite of policies where it corresponds. Here we are talking about Spain, Your Honor, and we are talking about the whole of Spain, not about the behavior of an autonomous community that I cannot defeat or discuss if a point in a health centre is a few kilometres away or so. I do, Your Honor, I do assume the successes and mistakes that each of us can have throughout our political experience. By the way, you are mistaken, I have not been a person in my professional life who has devoted himself to politics; I have previously been working in my area of competence, I do not know what yours has been, nor am I interested, I have to tell you, Mr Figueredo. I also tell you that, obviously, you lied in the rostrum, you said that I was a tax advisor when situations occurred in the Government of Andalusia, and that is a lie. [[Mr Figaredo Álvarez-Sala makes affirmative gestures]] Oh, yes, tell me now, Mr. Figaredo? But if you know it is a lie; if you go up to the rostrum simply to try to defame, to try to insult and, ultimately, to pounce, as I have said, political life, so that people move away, do not vote, do not participate, there is no function that is attributed to those who defend the public or represent the public. I will conclude, Your Honor, because I believe that the debate has had enough of an anti-policy dose, too. I was asking you: if you are so anti-political, what do you do in institutions? I was asking you here at the Congress of Deputies. [[Protests]] I already know that this is interactive and every time I ask a question, all your VOX lordships answer me, but this is not interactive, I'm talking to the person who is taking the initiative. What are you guys doing here? Or have you come here, Mr Figaredo, to dynamite the democratic foundations on which this country has built its main years of prosperity? Is it possible, Mr Figueredo - and it is not in the use of the word, that you are now in a position, if you consider it so, to listen - that the VOX Group is coming here precisely to boost all that with so much effort we have built the Spaniards of progress, equality, well-being, trying to overcome a few years as black as the years of the dictatorship and the years of Francoism, Your Honor? [[Protests by Mr Figaredo Álvarez-Sala]] You in your nostalgia...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u175	Your Honor, you must finish your speech, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u176	I'm on my way. Mr. Figueredo still doesn't listen, I don't know what the question is. He said that within his nostalgia, the only thing you do always is to evoke times and issues, Your Honor, which I hope this country has left behind forever, and that you never have the key or the chance to re-activate them. Thank you very much. [[Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, stood up.-The ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group show a picture showing the Minister of Finance, Montero Quadrado, next to Mr Grignan Martínez in front of a poster in which he puts: Junta de Andalucia. Government delegation in Malaga]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u177	Ladies and gentlemen, you know that the regulation expressly prohibits banners and the like from being displayed, so I would ask you not to repeat yourselves.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u178	We continue with the motion resulting from the urgent interpretation of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress so that the Minister of the Interior will report on the assumption of political responsibilities for the succession of scandals, irregularities and convictions affecting his department. Mrs Vázquez Blanco has the floor for the author group of the initiative and for the defence of the motion.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u179	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Absente Grande-Marlaska, since his appointment the Spaniards - me and most of us here - have moved from respect to surprise, from surprise to perplexity, from perplexity to indignation. That Valentia with which he ceases public servants who dare to contradict - those public servants who say no to their troops -, that bravery with which he disallows the police in Barajas for Minister Ábalos to go through the terminals with total impunity to interview a dictator, a Venezuelan torturer, that bravery Mr Marlaska does not have to stay here today, despite an agenda of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, empty, in which he only puts at nine will be in the Congress of Deputies. Shameful to see how he was running away this morning from the Congress of Deputies. A few days ago we knew the judgment of the Central Court of Dispute-Administrative No. 8, which annuls the cessation of Colonel Pérez de los Cobos. The sentence is as forceful as it is baffling, for it states that the Ministry of the Interior has erred in deviating power, i.e. that it has exercised administrative powers against the law. The sentence classifies the ministry's performance as arbitrary and illegal. There is no more embarrassing classification for a Minister of the Interior, who is also a career magistrate. What are you waiting for, absent Marlaska, to resign? Everything Marlaska knew about the rule of law was forgotten the day she embraced the acronyms of the PSOE, and a judge, her promotional partner, had to come to remind her that in Spain neither a minister nor any high office is above the law. Marlaska could have been remembered as the judge who fought ETA, but will be remembered as the minister who pleased the left abertzale. Mr Marlaska has paid a high price for his minister's chair, he has changed the sentences for the approaches, the toga for the running tape, the hug to the victims for the applause of Bildu. How can you fall so low in such a short time? A kneeling Marlaska, who has squandered his prestige and trajectory so as to remain a minister. But the worst is that only his pride is greater than his boldness. Ladies and gentlemen, you have intended to beat the Civil Guard and put the body at the service of your party's interests, and that boldness is going to cost Mr Marlaska a lot because neither the Civil Guard nor the police are ever going to submit to his whims. [[Applauds]] Justice has given him an exemplary shambles. He has for no reason ceased exemplary public servants, such as Colonel Sánchez Corbí, Colonel Pérez de los Cobos, or recently handed over to independence the head of the head of the Civil Guard in Catalonia. It has created tailor-made public offices to pay political loyalty, breaking traditional neutrality and balance between bodies. He's brought bloodthirsty terrorist killers against the treatment boards. And he has refused to face - as today - in the Congress of Deputies with more than sixty-four appearances pending. But, ladies and gentlemen, have no doubt, time puts everyone in their place. And Marlaska has already reserved a position in the front row of shame as a wolf shepherd. The greater his obstinacy to remain in office, the more sound his fall will be. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, today the People's Parliamentary Group is calling for Mr Marlaska to cease. First, because he has no dignity to resign. We call for their cessation because it has gone from hugging the victims of terrorism to scorning them with rapprochement every Friday of terrorists and bloodthirsty killers; five votes, five prisoners. We call for his cessation for his null and void relationship with the police and civil guard unions and prison officials, whom he gags and arbitrarily expels. We call for your cessation by orders to control social media and criticism of the government. We call for his cessation for his failed immigration policy, ceasing the person responsible for immigration in the Canary Islands and violating the human rights of migrants. We request your cessation for your conviction for the arbitrary and illegal cessation of Colonel Perez de los Cobos. We ask you to stop using the kick on the door without a court order, that kick on the door you don't use for the okupas and to defend private property in Spain. We call for your cessation not to condemn violence against the police, to remain silent in front of ministers and deputies such as Mr Echenique who are jealous of the violence and insulting the police. We call for his cessation for allowing police and civilian guards to discriminate against vaccination in Catalonia, and allowing hatred and continued harassment of them and their families. We call for your cessation for allowing ceremonies and tributes to terrorists. We ask you to stop using the Ministry of the Interior as a courtship, to buy a running tape for the minister's own use or to use the ministry's social networks to campaign in Catalonia for Mr. Illa's sake, and to be condemned by the Central Electoral Board. We ask for your cessation because you are not able to stop the disorder and vandalism that occurred in different cities in Spain. We ask for his cessation to pursue and purge those who abide by the law, while he defends those who violate the law. In short, we call for its cessation from the People's Parliamentary Group for its sectarianism, arbitrariness and abuse of power. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, if Mr Marlaska does not know how to conjugate the verb to resign, we ask Mr Sánchez to combine the verb to cease. Because he no longer has the legitimacy or moral authority to follow a minute further to the head of the Ministry of the Interior. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u180	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] As no amendments have been tabled to this initiative, we move on to position-setting. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u181	Thank you very much, Mr President. The management of Mr. Grande-Marlaska must be repudiated, and in fact it should have already been ceased by the President of the Government, who is in any case responsible for appointing him and maintaining him despite the succession of incorrect decisions, some contrary to the law and respect for democratic values. The arbitrary and illegal cessation of the head of the Madrid command in which the minister, the director general of the Civil Guard and the Moncloa are involved, who tried to prevaricate and disobey judicial orders, is more than sufficient reason for their move and that of the entire dome of the Ministry of the Interior; add their lukewarmness in defense of the work of the State Security Forces and Bodies, which are under their leadership and which have been the subject of violent attacks by street groups hailed by members of the Government and by leaders of one of the two parties that are part of the coalition Government. Mr. Marlaska has to be repudiated now. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u182	Thank you very much. Mr Sayas López has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u183	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Abuse of power, illegal cessation, pride, nauseous submission to nationalist and bile-backed clientelism. Can more indecency be accumulated in a single ministry? No, obviously you can't. But Mr Marlaska doesn't care, because he hasn't come to serve Spain, he's come to serve Sánchez, and that's why Mr Sánchez keeps him in power. He maintains it because he knows that he will use power in the service of Sánchez and not in the service of the Spaniards, and that when he has to choose between the law and Sanchez he will stand on the side of Sánchez instead of the side of the law, just as he knows that, without asking, he will submit to the Bochorno, submissive and kneeling clientel pacts of the Spanish government with the nationalism of the PNV, with the nationalism and independence of the Republican Esquerra and with the 'bildus' that we have in this government. That is why, every week, being an ignominy for any democrat, he will bring older prisoners, failing to meet the criteria of prison boards, mocking the law and slapping again in the face of the victims of terrorism, to whom he is subjecting a new added pain. That's the minister, that's an ignominy for Spain, that's a lack of respect for a state ministry, but, as far as this is concerned, we have now also known that the Government of Spain wants to definitely throw the Civil Guard of Traffic of Navarre. And I want the Civil Guard to know that the immense size of the citizens of Navarre, despite having a nationalist government, yes, presided over by a socialist, but a nationalist government, we thank, respect and will always take into consideration the magnificent work that has done in the service of the security and freedom of all shipowners in our community the Civil Guard. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u184	Thank you. Mrs Vehi Cantenys has the floor. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u185	Thank you, President. That the People's Party accuses the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party of scandals, irregularities and convictions is at least a risky accusation. You are popularly known as the most corrupt party in southern Europe, and today you have in this very House a Committee of Inquiry for Kitchen, which is also being brought to justice at this time. And there are characters who explain that both the People's Party and the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party have used the institutions in an untransparent way, we would say. One may be Perez de los Cobos because - I am a parentheses - we agree with Marlaska on a few things, but with the dismissal of Perez de los Cobos we not only agree, but we think that this had to have happened before, because this gentleman is responsible for the charges of October 1 and this gentleman would have to be gone before. [[Applauds]] But there are other characters - and we can talk about Villarejo, Fuentes Gago, Eugenio Pino - who explain that bipartisanism has been a regime of power that has gone beyond the succession of the two great political parties. VázquezMontalban wrote in 1990 the so-called Anti-Corruption Manifesto, where he spoke of a state of mutual relief as a way not to pull the blanket for the survival of this power structure. In fact - and I finish this, President - Vázquez Montalbán to the state of mutual relief called it a constitutional bloc. [[A Member: And Pujol?]] Yes, Pujol was also part of this structure... Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u186	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Iñarritu García has the floor for the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u187	Egun on. Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, you and your split bring us today a proposal to repudiate and request the cessation of Mr Marlaska, and I assure you that we have read your proposal with interest. The blush of reasons that you consider appropriate for this gentleman to be ceased we have read it, and hence our surprise, because we, as everyone knows, are more than critical with Mr Grande-Marlaska and come from afar, not only from when he was appointed Minister of the Interior, but, of course, all the reasons that we think of you do not mention them. Moreover, the first of them, the first reason why you consider that this gentleman must be blamed is that he complies with the block of constitutionality and that the competence of prisons is transferred to the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country; something that, by the way - now that I see it - the UPN gentleman was also affronting them. But what are we left with? You guys weren't formalists? No, the truth is that you are nationalists, Spanish nationalists casposos, on top of it, because, of course, you will also not claim the competition of prisons, which is collected in the improvement of the Navarro furo, right? That would look bad. Likewise, it seems wrong for Mr. Marlaska to begin to comply with the General Prison Law. But what are we left with? You weren't super constitutionalists, weren't you super legalists? Or when it comes to the Basque Country is the exception for everything? We also see that they hurt that some agents with brilliant resumes are separated, but the problem is not that they are separated, it is that among those resumes that you mention there is one person - and you have appointed her - who has been convicted of torture, and the problem is that he remains an agent of the authority. And then there are agents who have been involved in Operation Catalonia, in the terrible beating on October 1st, in the political brigade, and who have not been stopped. That is the problem; it is incomprehensible today. In relation to migrations, you speak of the effect called. When everyone is frightened by xenophobic and racist cutting posters of a neo-rancist formation, you bring this proposal, which is more ultra than that of yours. Don't you think that Mr Marlaska should be blamed for the case of Arguineguin or because it has occurred to him to reopen the CIEs in the middle of the pandemic or for the situation we see with the hot returns? That sounds good to you, doesn't it? Sure, there's the problem. He said that I have a number of reasons to reproach Mr Marlaska and the policies of the Ministry of the Interior, including the seven convictions of the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg for not investigating torture. There are eleven convictions to Spain, in seven of which Mr. Grande-Marlaska was the investigating judge, and you don't care; you see no reason to mention it. But in the same way, there is another reason and it is that this lord, his ministry and this government, keep in force the Law on Citizen Security, the Law on Mordaza - a nonsense, and moreover that in the last year this ministry has applied more sanctions under that repressive law than you, when you were the ones who launched it. And another thing that scares us is that there continue to be cases of police disproportion, abuses - we have even seen shots posted in a demonstration, they say by mistake - and that these facts do not open internal investigations and quickly cleanse those responsible. We think of many reasons, but not the ones you mention. I ended up addressing the Socialist Group, Mr President. The great problem - I have mentioned it three times in recent weeks - is that we see no difference between the policies being pursued by the Ministry of the Interior under its Government and those of those gentlemen. How do you differ in internal politics? There's the problem. If you can tell me, I would appreciate it, for we see with concern that you are following the same lines. We shall vote in favour. Thank you very much, Mr President. Sorry, we will vote against, but there were reasons to vote in favour. [[laughs]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u188	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u189	Thank you very much, President. The People's Parliamentary Group has tabled a motion calling for the rejection of the Minister of the Interior and urging the President of the Government to cease, after citing a number of decisions that reproach the Minister, but resting the centre of gravity of all of them in the cessation of the head of the command of the Madrid Civil Guard, declared in first instance not adjusted to law by the Central Court of the Dispute-Administrative No. 8 of the National High Court. From this non-binding judicial decision, the Group of the European People's Party wants us to extract a political consequence: the rejection and cessation of the minister. Not always from an estimated judgement of a contentious appeal against an order of a public authority must a political responsibility be drawn, and we believe that this is one of those cases. First, because there is not yet a final court decision. And secondly, because, although it is in the National Court, it was a firm judicial decision, the judicial truth is something that sometimes does not coincide with the social truth or the political truth. Or in other words, with the perception of the facts judged that individuals and their groups can have socially and politically. And it's not that one truth disowns the other or the other, but that sometimes they play in different planes and with different consequences. As far as the case before us is concerned, we believe that two circumstances have been combined which have led to a causal relationship between the judicial decision and the political response, which we find to be how the information on the cessation of Mr Pérez de los Cobos has been administered, and how the motivation of Mr Pérez de los Cobos has been drafted in its initial formulation and in the resolution of the appeal, which has given rise once again to the opposition which is mounting, through its Minister of the Interior, with regard to a Government which does not recognize its legitimacy, and to the National Court having handed down a judgment such as that which it has handed down at first instance on the occasion of a colonel of the Civil Guard equally reprobated or burdened by his role in the so-called Catalonian process, and of a minister who, as is very often the case, is harassed with equal enthusiasm and partisanship by those who previously praised him as now defrauded. But as I said to you, ladies and gentlemen, these are circumstances of communication and drafting that we believe should not lead to the Minister's reprobation and cessation by the cessation of Mr Pérez de los Cobos, whose trigger, as the judgment says, was not to be informed of the existence of investigative proceedings, but of the leaking of a report from the Judicial Police of the Madrid Command, as it appeared in a news published the day following his surrender to the investigating court. And in the face of this leak, it is when two superiors, two generals, are installed to take an interest in the head of the Madrid Command on whether he was aware of the delivery of these information proceedings, a circumstance he denied. This unbelievable fact because of the lack of diligence involved in a head of command, coupled with the failure to report his surrender, in addition to not providing any information as to whether there had been any investigation into the origin of the leak in a matter of remarkable political and social relevance, is what we consider to have motivated a cessation that we politically value weighted and fair, despite the fact that, as I said, the facts and the cessation with already contagion were explained, which is always catastrophic in the political management, and which will be reflected in the administrative file of the cessation in a cryptic way when justified - and I quote in quotes - 'for not having communicated in its capacity as head of the Madrid Commandance those relevant incidents that should be known to the director and the holders of the senior organs of the ministry', without mentioning what relevant information the concerned was, which gave rise to the National Court to conclude by deduction that the content of the investigative proceedings referred to the investigating court was claimed, but that it does not give rise to the party's initiative in view, to the party's actions,
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u190	It must be finished, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u191	... in our opinion, biases and supporters of a court decision which, moreover, is not firm. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u192	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Gutiérrez Vivas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u193	Ladies and gentlemen, a reprobation is the criticism or strong disapproval that is made especially of a person's conduct, and that is what this motion proposes to us today. We must ask ourselves, then, whether there are grounds, beyond party criticism or political positioning, to justify the vigorous disapproval of Mr Marlaska's conduct. The objective answer to this question is yes; there are clear and sufficient grounds for not approving this minister's conduct since his appointment, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Marlaska came to his appointment preceded by an aura of prestige after his appointment as judge of the National High Court, but today there is nothing left of that prestige. I think Mr. Marlaska's prestige should only matter to him. Therefore, this is not what we reproach today, but it is and the reasons that have led to this loss of prestige are important today because those must matter to us all. We speak nothing less than the prestige of the Ministry of the Interior, not the Minister of the Interior. We already know that Mr Marlaska often confuses the State with the Government of the State as a good caesareanist. We are so concerned and so concerned about that loss of prestige that last week a motion similar to that tabled by my parliamentary group was debated in the Senate. Few ministries of this democracy have been able in just two years to reach the levels of institutional contempt to which Minister Marlaska has dragged to the Ministry of the Interior, and not by his ability to lie in this rostrum, no; it has been by his way of understanding power. That is where the basis of my parliamentary group lies for reproaching it. We did not conceive of the government of a state institution like the Ministry of the Interior as a vehicle to do what the minister always wants. Ladies and gentlemen, the rapprochement of elderly prisoners, in our view, is an unworthy decision because it is so with the victims in the face of the lack of repentance and the lack of cooperation of these prisoners with the justice system. But we understand that the minister here only executes the orders that are transferred to him by President Sánchez, once he has accepted the blackmail of his nationalist and billionaire partners. Therefore, it is the President, not his minister, who deserves the reprobation here. However, a minister who encourages the attack against another political formation because he is not of the same ideology as his, as happened in the parade of the Pride in Madrid two years ago against people of my party; who orders a false report to the Chief of Police on those incidents, obviating that of the Provincial Information Brigade, which was present; who steals the explanations requested in this House, refuses to appear on what happened and, above all, who finally justifies such attacks; he is a creditor of a strong disapproval. It is the one that ceases professionals accredited for many years of effective public service exclusively by an attack of ego, to the point of being corrected by the justice of this country. It is the one who, in the face of recent vandalistic acts in several Spanish cities, does not defend the police actions carried out from statements of suspicion nor does it require its government partners to explicitly demarcate from the demonstrations made by its spokesman, Pablo Echenique, in which he showed his explicit and express support to the violent. It is the one that says nothing when the Basque Government designs a vaccination plan for the more than 9000 officers of its autonomous police and obviates the 3250 officers of the Civil Guard and the National Police there intended; or when vaccination is twelve times slower for those destined in Catalonia than for their own mossos. It is the one who silences the massive arrival of irregular immigrants on the Canary coast and neglects the requirements of its local authorities in search of help in the absence of the CATE on the islands to catch them; it is the one who silences the situation of hundreds of people sleeping on the street; it silences the demands of its own forces and state security bodies of better material and human means to deal with the situation; it silences, in short, the cry of a devastated canarian society that has to face one of the greatest humanitarian crises of recent years in Spain. He who performs or ceases to perform these actions must be reprobated, he deserves our reprobation. And in case there is no longer an act of greater indignity, the last thing he occupies is to attack the uncomfortable union representation, with the opening of disciplinary files against the secretary general of the main union of the National Police, in a clear attempt to silence the just demand for improvements for the national police collective. And the absence of a specific vaccination plan for the agents is answered by Marlaska with the opening of disciplinary files for legally manifesting with Congress. It's over, ladies and gentlemen. I believe that there is more than enough reason for Citizens, as they did last week in the Senate, to vote in favour of this minister's reprobation today as well. We demand that President Sánchez cease as Minister of the Interior as a matter of urgency, because with Marlaska at the head of this ministry the discredit of the institution can only continue to worsen, and that is a luxury, ladies and gentlemen, that the Spanish State cannot continue to afford. Thank you very much, President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u194	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, first of all, Mr Baldoví Roda.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u195	Thank you very much. This motion is about taking political responsibility for scandals, irregularities and convictions. Two things come to me: the first, a carcase, a carcase, especially coming from the PP; and the second, reminds me of a few verses from Bécquer: What is poetry? And you ask me? Poetry... it's you. Who has scandals, irregularities and convictions? You, PP, you; you are the worthy champions, you are the winners of the European super league, the champions of corruption. And when has PP assumed only one political responsibility, one? Never, ever. It's really fascinating your defachability and your ability to see the straw in someone's eye and not see the beam in your own. Finally, if Mr Marlaska had to resign, he should have resigned for not ceasing Mr Pérez de los Cobos on the same day that he was appointed minister. The corporal. Today it has become beautiful, especially after seeing the clamorous failure of the billionaire super league. Sometimes, few, the rich cry too. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u196	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Pagès i Massó has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u197	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, go ahead and say that in Junts per Catalunya we appreciate positively the interest of you, the People's Party, in the injustice of ceasing and removing public employees from their jobs. We express our solidarity with all civil servants and public servants, with the whistleblowers of corruption who have suffered harassment at work and have paid very dearly, at the personal, family and professional level, not to bow to arbitrariness and corruption. But, gentlemen of the People's Party, we are not convinced at all that this is the case with Mr Pérez de los Cobos; we do not think that he was persecuted as a public servant for standing before injustice. We're convinced it's not his style. In this motion that you present, the names that lead you share more than your devotion to the unity of the Kingdom of Spain; they share being a disgrace to the rule of law. Minister Marlaska - to whom, by the way, you yourselves, gentlemen of the People's Party, proposed in 2013 for the General Council of the Judiciary - accumulates up to seven convictions of the European Court of Human Rights for not investigating allegations of torture, which is the same as covering them. As for Colonel Pérez de los Cobos, she seems to be the girl of the eyes of the extreme right and the extreme right of Spain. For this reason, we are not surprised by the much luck he has in the Spanish courts, as has been demonstrated recently in the National Court; a benevolence he had already had in 1997, when he was acquitted of an accusation of torture, while three other civilian guards were convicted in the same case. In this case, they were not accused of covering up torture but of practicing torture. And now, following Mr Pérez de los Cobos' public exhibition in the media, a Basque citizen, Mr Pello Alcantarilla, has recognized him as one of those present in the room where, in 2004, they were torturing him. But his trajectory does not end there; he is also involved in the Kitchen case, the patriotic police headed by Commissioner José Villarejo, the state sewers. And, of course, we cannot forget that Colonel Pérez de losCobos was responsible, on October 1, 2017, for breaking police coordination, disobeying judicial mandates and launching the Spanish State Security Forces and Corpses to beat the Catalan people who were voting peacefully with extreme violence. It is a shame for all of Europe that you, all of you in 155, think that it came out for free, and I tell you now that that salvation is not going to go out for free to the Kingdom of Spain. [[Applauds]] It's over, ladies and gentlemen. There are many reasons to reproach the Minister of the Interior, Mr Marlaska - many of them have been quoted - but not the one you now put mainly on the table. Mr Pérez de los Cobos does not deserve the respect of any Democrat. For this reason, as a matter of principle, we are not going to vote either now or ever on his motion. Independence and freedom for political prisoners and exiles. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u198	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Bassa Coll has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u199	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Spain has as its Minister of the Interior a judge who has been convicted by Europe for not wanting to investigate torture. Those who ordered and committed these tortures were not reprobated but recognized and it is those who continue to lead the State's sewers or who have chosen and promoted their successors. The police that waged dirty war, which practised torture and State terrorism have continued to serve Spain. A democratic right, a democratic Spain would be demanding the right to the truth and reparation of all the victims of that dirty war and of the victims of other dirty wars, such as Gustau Muñoz, as evidenced by the recommended documentary Gustau, the open transition. If Spain were democratic, it would be condemning and asking for forgiveness for murders committed on the orders of the Government itself; State terrorism would be a real historical and democratic shame, but it is not. There is no such shame in the account of full democracy; the regime of 78 has imposed a manicated and manipulated historical account endorsed, as you know, by prosecutors and courts, by Parliament, by the Government, by the Spanish media and intellectuals. The State and social powers have been necessary accomplices and have continued to be accomplices in all the new repression campaigns, with clear examples, such as those described by the journalist Sara González in her book Per raó d'Estat. Those who tortured and imprisoned Martxelo Otamendi or set up false evidence against Xavier Trias continue to act, and this is allowed by the mental framework of democratic exception and repressive normality that they implemented years ago to justify dirty war and state terrorism. Only in this mental setting can a bar fight be raised to terrorism in Altsasu or a tale of false violence is constructed in Catalonia. Cloacas and police abuses, police violations and secret services continue in Catalonia in the same repressive machinery that has its insides on the dark night of Francoism, which today persecutes 3000 people in our country; the same legitimization of the powers of the State, of all of them. If the most progressive government in Spain's history intended to combat these cloacas, it does not seem very appropriate that the responsible minister be a judge who did not know or did not want to know about the cloacas. In fact, it is no accident, because neither PP nor PSOE have ever had an interest in cleaning up the state's sewers, they are part of the very essence of the 78's regime. You feel comfortable in the regime of 78, which you call full democracy. They do not seek to overcome authoritarianism, the laws of gloom and their limited democracy born from the very insides of the Franco regime. On the contrary, in Catalonia we claim to build an advanced democracy that they call the Catalan Republic. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u200	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the Union Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, I have the floor Mr Mayoral Perales.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u201	Thank you, Mr. President. Nothing, again here speaking of the same, of a lieutenant colonel of the Civil Guard under whose command a document was leaked to the courts on 22 May, and from which there was a clear political use by those who were at the time in a job against the Government; a report, by the way, hardly sustainable and whose content was finally rejected by the magistrate. In fact, there is a trade on 25 May, recalling the obligation of confidentiality. It is logical for the judge to say this, especially when the unit in which these investigations were being conducted reports fall and casually always fall into the same newspapers, I don't know if they realized it. Then they appeared in more, but at first they always fall into the same newspapers. They have really turned a figure into a supposed icon, but not because of their good police practices but just the opposite. Here we all know perfectly why the extreme right and right praise the figure of Pérez de los Cobos, which was for the failure of the operation of October 1st and for the punishment operation at the door of the electoral colleges, something that unfortunately again proves to us that there are those who think it is necessary to reward the wrongdoer and punish the rightdoer. I think that's a philosophy we need to end up with as soon as possible within the State Security Forces and Bodies. In particular, speaking of the Civil Guard, many things need to be put an end to. It has to be done that 70% of the decorations are given to the controls when those who actually put the body are not receiving those decorations. The Military Penal Code within the Civil Guard must be abolished, which, of course, deprives of liberty not generals or lieutenant colonels but guards who claim rights within the barracks. For this it is necessary to have a little historical memory. There are those who can have Pérez de los Cobos as their reference in the Civil Guard; others have General Escobar, a Catholic, a conservative person who stood by democracy and defended it in the face of a coup d'état at a crucial moment for our country. These are the figures that should be studied at the academy by the officers. [[Applauds]] There are debts with those who have worked to introduce democracy into the Civil Guard, and we have not been forgotten. We have not forgotten that the State continues to owe a debt to Corporal Rosas and Sergeant Morata, who were expelled from the Civil Guard and paid with their freedom to defend democracy in the barracks. We have not been forgotten and we demand the Ministry of the Interior, which is where we must put our finger in the sore, in the need to deepen democratic concepts. We would pose the demilitarization of the Civil Guard, we know that our government partner does not agree with that; now, at least we will recover the one that does not apply the Military Penal Code in the Civil Guard, as approved at the time of the Zapatero government, which is something we should all agree on. I'll tell you what I'm afraid of. What scares me is that the Association Pro Guardia Civil, which is the association representing the commanders and officers of the Guardia Civil, says on February 13: We regret the death of our general, Enrique Rodríguez Galindo. He looked in front of ETA, fought it and defeated it, thus saving the lives of a multitude of citizens, civilian guards and their families. We are at the command of your excellence. This really scares me because it is the ones who are currently running units of the Civil Guard and are advocating for someone who was convicted of committing very serious intolerable crimes in a democracy. Frankly, I miss a very young secretary of state who stood before the Civil Guard and, when they told her: with or without a network, she said: the only network is the rule of law. And we demand that if you continue to maintain the military character in the Civil Guard...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u202	You must finish, Mr. Mayoral.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u203	...Mrs. Margarita Robles, make sure. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u204	For the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Gil Lázaro has the floor. [[Applauds.-Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Please take a seat in your seats, if you don't mind, Members.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u205	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Marlaska is a finished minister, in the end, a victim of his servility and cowardice. Judgement No. 8 of the National Court is clear: the cessation of Colonel Pérez de los Cobos was an arbitrary and illegal act, a misguided exercise of abuse of power. VOX also considers that the Minister of the Interior, the Secretary of State for Security and the Director General of the Civil Guard are alleged perpetrators of three possible crimes: prevarication, threats and obstruction of justice, and have filed a complaint with the Supreme Court. If at this point the Minister of the Interior retains a minimum of democratic decency, he would have resigned, but the Minister of the Interior refuses to do so and has the backing of President Sánchez for the moment. That is why it is essential that this House repudiate the minister and demand that Sanchez cease. The conduct of the Minister of the Interior, in political terms - he stressed this expression - has shown that he lacks dignity, scruples and shame. He has repeatedly and boldly lied, for example, to the victims of terrorism, who promised that he would never approach murderers with blood crimes and yet today most of those murderers, the bloodiest, are already close to the prisons of the Basque Country. He lied to the Spaniards when he denied the existence of a pact with Bildu to liquidate the prison policy, and it had to be Otegi himself and the Basque Nationalist Party who believed the existence of that pact: five prisoners per week. He has lied stating that all transfers were carried out according to technical criteria, when many of them have been made contrary to the treatment boards criterion. And he lied when he said at the time that the transfer of prison powers to the Basque Government was not on his agenda, and that transfer will be formalized in the coming days. But he also lied when he claimed that he had not given orders to the Civil Guard to spy on the Spaniards on social media during the pandemic and when he tried to distort them statements by General Santiago saying that they were merely a lapsus and the next day various media published those orders of service. And, of course, he lied also when he denied the existence of flights of illegal migrants from the Canary Islands to the Peninsula and, in the end, the Government itself, the Ministry of Migration, had to recognize the existence of such flights. But Minister Marlaska's conduct has also been useless and sectarian; it has abandoned officials under his orders during the pandemic by not giving them adequate protection. It has been unable to develop a policy of dialogue and respect for the legitimate professional demands of these officials. He has produced appointments and cessations for phobias and political affiliations when not for mere rabies, such as the cessation of Colonel Sánchez Corbí. And, in the end, it has been unable to guarantee the security of our borders and the security of our streets, especially in the humblest neighborhoods, which are the most severely affected by this effect of insecurity. In the last few days, he has tried to endorse the invasion of his home without a court order and has justified the violence against VOX by also putting at risk the intervening police assets, which he has not allowed them to act on a previous basis, as he did during the altercations on the occasion of the imprisonment of the criminal Hasel. In short, the Minister of the Interior has shown that it is a danger to the security and freedom of the Spaniards, an obstacle to the primacy of the law and the rule of law, a misfortune for officials under their orders and, of course, a shame for Spanish democracy. That is why the Minister of the Interior must be repudiated immediately; Sánchez must be required to cease the Minister on account of exemplary and democratic hygiene, on account of political decency. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u206	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, Mr Cerdán León has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u207	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Unworthy, fallacious, corpse, coward, fool, miserable, and all this accompanied by screams and blows on the seats. These were some of the pearls that the extreme right and the extreme right and racist dedicate to a minister of the Government of Spain. To insults and disqualifications, shouts and overactions is what you, ladies and gentlemen of the PP, have reduced your opposition - when there are arguments there is no need for insults -; they lack respect in each of your interventions and do so on the basis of lies, falsehoods and half truths, which is what goes well with them. The attacks and disqualifications to Minister Marlaska aim to cover with the noise of their disqualifications, their screams and their lies their own miseries, those that we see exposed day and day also in the different judicial processes that splatter fully to their party. And it's easy to understand the exhilarated speech of his spokesman, Mr. Casado, last week because, while his speech, they declared the UDEF agents called as experts in the trial on his party's box B. And, of course, seeing what you said there, it's much easier to understand the circus you've set up and you're still setting up here. Let there be no talk of corruption, let there be no talk of trials, that we are on the campaign. Well, I'll talk to them. Half a dozen UDEF agents, Mrs Vázquez, of public servants, confirmed that the so-called papers of Barcenas - and I quote - demonstrate the existence of parallel accounting within the PP for almost two decades, through which black money flowed that ended up thickening the official accounts of the People's Party. And all this - according to the testimonies-managed not only by Barcenas but by the hard core of his own party. In the words of Manuel Morocho, chief inspector and chief investigator of the Gürtel plot: we are talking about the national headquarters of the PP, the treasury, the management and, therefore, we are talking about the central organ of the party. I close quotes. Inspector Morocho described before the court how the dome of the then Ministry of the Interior, headed by Jorge Fernández Díaz, placed numerous obstacles on them to harm the investigation of the case. Reading your statements and those of the previous sessions of the trial, it is easier to understand why you are paid for the scandal and the noise. Inspector Morocho was pressured within the police to leave the investigation, even an internal investigation was opened inside the body against them. It was intended to generate tension to bend us and not to carry out our work, he said. He even explained that they also tried to buy it by offering him a succulent and well-paid post at another destination. And, in case he was short, he was overloaded with other functions so that he could not continue with the investigations of Gürtel and Box B. Ladies and gentlemen of the PP, it is obscene to hear you talk about ethics and respect for the institutions, which you keep dragging through the mud. Because it is not only that the PP - and here I quote already firm court ruling - will benefit and profit from a system of institutionalized corruption, it is also that, in order to try to hide it, you set up an entire operation that makes, alongside you, the Watergate seem like a game of children. And it is even more offensive to hear them speak of ETA, which they resort to indecently, as if it had not been defeated by democracy nothing more and nothing less than ten years ago. They insult intelligence by talking about rapprochement of prisoners because they know perfectly well that what is done is strict compliance with the law, the same law that was alleged by his former minister, Mr. Zoido, when rapprochement occurred under his mandate, exactly what is required by law. Or are you asking that the law be breached, to which you are accustomed when you are in power? We're not gonna do it. What we have never heard or heard from socialists is to refer to ETA as a Basque liberation movement, as former President Aznar called it, while negotiating with the terrorist band ETA, while negotiating and approaching 195 ETA prisoners, while extortioning and continuing to murder. Gentlemen of the PP, the hemeroteca is bad for you, and there's a line that connects the black surrogates, the box B, the pressures to the judges, the bites to the public work, the cloacas and the kidnapping of the Bárcenes family, and that line has two words: People's Party. Abandon lies, shouts and insults and talk about issues of concern to citizens. And I want to address Mr. Sayas. Mr. Sayas, don't come and lie any more, the Civil Guard won't leave Navarre. You say in Navarre that you do not want the transfer of traffic, something that you have claimed for decades. Don't come lying. And I can teach you - that the hemerotheque also talks about you - your pacts with Herri Batasuna... [[shows some newspaper clippings]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u208	Your Honor, you must finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u209	... which the Government obtained through them in 1991. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u210	Thank you very much. [[A cleaning service worker disinfects the speaker's rostrum]] - OF THE VOX PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, ON THE MEASURES TO BE TAKEN BY THE GOVERNMENT TO COMPLETE THE DEVIATION OF POWER IN THE MINISTRY OF THE INTERIOR. [[File number 173/000068]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u211	We then proceed to discuss the motion, as a result of urgent questioning, of the VOX Parliamentary Group on measures to be taken by the Government to put an end to the diversion of power in the Ministry of the Interior. For the author group of the initiative and for the defence of the motion, Mrs Olona Choclán has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u212	With venial, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. The motion before this parliamentary group today has a lot to do with dignity in the exercise of politics, a lot to do with the exercise worthy of the noble art of politics. And I will give you a very concrete example, an example that happened this very morning in this very Chamber. Mr Simancas, I am going to address you, because your spokesman is not here, to ask you why your parliamentary group has applauded the Spanish Minister of Finance on the spot. I say to you that the motion submitted by the VOX Parliamentary Group to this House today has a lot to do with the dignity in the exercise of politics, and I also say that not I, who have been in this House for just a few months, but politicians with much more experience, to whom I hear, have told me that they have never seen what happened this morning. Because today we have a representative of national sovereignty, a deputy - it is true, of VOX -, in a respectful way, has addressed a minister of the Government of Spain to talk about the proper management - hear, from our perspective - of public resources...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u213	Mrs. Olona, one second, please. I would ask you, because as the Rules of Procedure determine, that debate has already been sufficiently debated, to deal with the matter, if you do not mind. [[A Member of Parliament: Get down to the seat, where you have to be defending that.]] [[Mr Sánchez del Real speaks words that are not perceived]] Mr Sánchez del Real, please, I am speaking with the speaker, I believe in a respectful tone and I pray that you all will have it too. I am simply mentioning and recalling what the Rules of Procedure say so that the matter can be dealt with as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u214	Mr. President, thank you. As I said to you, in the noble exercise of politics an illegal cessation, such as the one that occupies this motion, is a mere manifestation of the red lines that would never have to be transgressed. And in the freedom that we all have from this rostrum, in the house of the word, I say to you that it is equally unworthy that when a Member takes the floor the answer, whether from a minister of the Government of Spain, or from any other Member of this House, is to come to the personal attack. [[Applauds]] It also makes a person responsible for the actions of a family member. Has there been greater indignity? Mr Santos just said it a moment ago: when there are arguments, no insults are needed. And I conclude, Mr President, because I am respectful of your instructions, not to address you, ladies and gentlemen, not José María - my dear friend and companion - but to his father, his wife, his baby, his friends, his family - also to Mr Rato - to thank you for the effort that politics is making today, because you do not deserve those attacks, because you do not deserve those attacks, because you are a pride for our group. [[Applauds]] And I also address his mother, may she rest in peace. And now I'm still like we always do in VOX: getting up, fighting and fitting the blow. Why did an unworthy Minister of the Interior cease Colonel Pérez de los Cobos by abusing his power and incurring the most serious stain that can be committed as a public power? Well, it's very simple, ladies and gentlemen, he did it because he can. And because Colonel Sánchez Corbí was illegally arrested on August 1, 2018; because he may have opened sectarian, ideological and repressive sanctioning files against various agents of the National Police Corps and also of the Civil Guard itself. And what it is about, as I said to you, is to remember that politics has to be exercised with great dignity because we have the honour and the privilege of representing the Spaniards, giving them a voice and making the decisions that will condition their life. But the reality is that the Minister of the Interior or any other public office can do what this Minister has done, which has acted with arbitrariness and with deviation of power. And if you can do that, it is because never, ladies and gentlemen - and we are a newly arrived party to this Congress - have the necessary steps been taken by politicians to ensure that the greater their arrogance, the greater their pride and the greater their lack of principles as politicians assuming positions of responsibility, the less their temptation to act, whether in the Government of Spain, in the autonomous governments or in public institutions, as if it were their particular courts. And in that temptation, which I can assure you I know well, those who suffer most, because they are on the front line of battle, are our public employees. I am a public official whom they can also attack because of family circumstances, but I will not stop coming up to this rostrum to say proudly that I am a public official, that my only vocation has always been to serve the citizenry and that with that same vocation of public service one day I decided that Spain hurt too much and that I was going to occupy my seat here next to her. [[Applauds]] And as a public official and a proud member of this parliamentary group, what I have to say to the whole group of public employees, whether from the state, from the autonomous communities, from local entities, municipalities, provincial parliaments, councils, island lobbyists, is that they will always have in VOX a permanent ally to protect them, especially from you, from politicians, from those temptations that always have - because now they have their hands unleashed - to turn the institutions into their particular courts. [[Applauds]] That is why I want to announce to you that the VOX Parliamentary Group is going to register an unprecedented law in the history of Spanish democracy, a law that I personally will always call the Corbí law in tribute to Sánchez Corbí, the first public employee illegally terminated by this unworthy Minister of the Interior, and that, among other measures, will penalize with imprisonment the crime of administrative prevarication, will regulate the express obligation to motivate both the appointment and the termination of posts of free designation and that, of course, will protect our public servants and yourselves, ladies and gentlemen, because by protecting you as politicians of the same politicians we dignify politics. Thank you very much. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European ……]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u215	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] As no amendments have been tabled to this initiative, we move on to position-setting. Firstly, for the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u216	Thank you very much, Mr President. Allow me to add to the words of affection of Mrs Olona to the Asturian deputy José María Figaredo. [[Applauds]] As I pointed out in the previous matter, I repeat now that the Minister of the Interior, Mr Grande-Marlaska, must be the subject of parliamentary reprobation and, consequently, immediately ceased by the President of the Government, although, in the light of the succession of nonsense and illegal decisions, it would be normal for Mr Sánchez to have already withdrawn his confidence. In this way, by giving continuity to the author, in the company of others, of the misdemeanour against the head of the Madrid Civil Guard Command, the president unites even more if he has his political responsibility to that of the Minister of the Interior. I would also like to express my repudiation of the unacceptable veto against Colonel Pérez de los Cobos in his legitimate promotion to the generalate as the number one in his promotion. We are faced with one of the greatest abuses perpetrated by a government since we have democracy in Spain. I also believe that it is an added reason for the rejection of the Minister and of her entire team, with particular mention for the Director General of the Civil Guard, Mrs Gámez, of the lack of commitment to the State Security Forces and Bodies, which is reflected in the poor budget allocation to modernize and improve the barracks, units and facilities throughout the national territory and uniquely in Asturias. It cannot continue to be the holder of the Interior who is unable to defend in the Council of Ministers the provision of sufficient and necessary economic items to enable our agents and their families to work and live in decent conditions. In short, Mr Grande-Marlaska has defrauded expectations and, worse, will continue to err as well. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u217	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr García Adanero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u218	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I also respect Mr Figaredo because it is clear that when you have arguments you do not need to go to the personal attack in any case; the personal attack always has to be outside the political debate and more if we are referring in this way. [[applause]] I think that Mr Marlaska should be here; if a debate were to be held that would require my resignation, cessation or anything else with different arguments, of course I would be here to defend or oppose what was being said, but, logically, Marlaska cares very little about this, she has very little respect for this House. This morning the vice-president was telling some spokesperson, I don't know if she was from the People's Group or VOX: you don't believe in the Chamber, in the national representation. But what about the government? If the government never comes! The government only comes when Sanchez has to be applauded, if not, none comes. In these discussions the Government should be present; of course it should be present. Bildu's spokesperson refers to me and tells me I'm an outsider. Yes, foralist, and the greatest enemy of foralism is independence and Basque nationalism, whose political objective is that Navarra disappears as a differentiated political community within the unity of Spain. And that's why we're outlaws, and that's why they're political enemies, and that's why the ETA terrorist gang in their Zutabe said that the containment wall in front of that chimera that is Euskal Herria or a Basque Republic was the Union of the Navarro People. That's why we were objective, that's why they killed us, that's why they tried to kill us and that's why they're always trying to accuse us. And that is why we are here, because the vast majority of shipwrecks vote for us, and that is why we have a presence in this House. When we talk about the situation of prisoners, we say: no, we have done nothing. But the other day there was a press conference given by Batasuna in which there were members of the terrorist gang ETA and, among other things, they said: It is evident the change of situation that is being made with the subject of prisoners. That, translated, what is it? The Government of Spain has, of course, agreed to this issue and is in the process of fulfilling it. And why are we against prison powers? Precisely because it is a political payment with a political objective, it is nothing other than that in a few months' time those killers walk through the streets of the Basque Country and Navarra. That's why we're against it. I think it's easy to understand. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u219	Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group. [[EAJ-PNV]] [[A cleaning service worker disinfects the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u220	Thank you very much, President. I will intervene from the seat because I will be very brief. I would simply like to state that I take it that the statements I have made in the previous motion have been reproduced. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u221	Thank you very much, Mr. Legarda. Mr Gutiérrez Vivas has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u222	Thank you, President. No minister of a democratic government in the world should survive in his office a court ruling that he himself committed an illegality by ceasing a high-ranking State official for failing to submit to an order contrary to the law and the legal order. The use of public institutions for their own benefit and for partisan purposes, as well as the arbitrariness in the dismissal of public servants, collapses with fundamental principles of any rule of law. This sentence disallows the minister and places him on the verge of committing an offence of prevarication. Moreover, with it the minister loses all de facto moral authority to continue in command of the Civil Guard and of the entire State Security Forces and Bodies, which have long since been on his side. The minister and other parliamentary groups have argued in the previous debate that the sentence is not firm, the lack of firmness of the sentence. I want to tell you two things. Obviously it is not firm because the appeal is possible and in that the minister said they were, but exactly the same the colonel will ask for a precautionary execution of the sentence and therefore it will have to be reinstated; some judge will tell him: minister, he will have to reinstate. Because they're going to ask for an interim execution of the sentence until that sentence is final, which means we're not going to have this officer in his place again in the first place. And what is Mr. Marlaska going to do at the time? As for those who speak that the sentence is not firm - Mr Legarda especially, but also the Socialist Party and others - I will tell you that you justified a motion of censure on a government, Mr Legarda, which your group supported, in a judgment which was not firm either. You're a senior...? I do not want to use an adjective that is too rude, but I find it very embarrassing to justify in this case that the sentence is not firm when you relied on a sentence to turn your back on a Government to which you had promised your support. I don't know, I don't know. I don't know what that will be called in Basque. Of course, I don't know how to say it in Basque, but in Spanish I do. And it is not that we alone ask for resignation, but that several political forces do; We can ask it on other occasions, just said by Mr de Bildu in the previous, the migration crisis of the Canary Islands, which we have already mentioned. In addition, all its subordinates, Mr Marlaska's subordinates, the representative associations of the Civil Guard, the police unions, the associations of prison officials, the associations of victims of terrorism are demanding exactly the same. Moreover, his own colleagues, former compañeros of the Independent Professional Association of Prosecutors, the Francisco de Vitoria Judicial Association, the Independent Judicial Forum, more than 2500 judges not only ask for his resignation, but consider him disqualified from returning to the judicial career. The Minister of the Interior personifies almost as much as Mr Sánchez is doing what the Socialist Party is doing by colonizing the Spanish institutions to put them at the service of his party, of his person and of his exclusive interests. This case to us - forgive me for referring to this - reminds us very much of the purge that Mr Sánchez's Government carried out with my colleague Edmundo Bal, a well-known and undefeated lawyer of the State with a long and prestigious career in the service of citizens and the State; of the interests of the State, not of the interests of a party. Mr Bal led operations against the corruption of separatism, against the PP Gürtel, against the corrupt plots of the Socialist Party and against multimillionaire footballers for defrauding the Hacienda from a position of maximum responsibility such as that of the head of the Criminal Department of the Attorney General's Office; an undefeated public servant who found himself in a situation identical to that of Pérez de los Cobos when the government pressured him to lie in his indictment of the coup d'état in Catalonia, thus sticking to what was demanded at the time by Esquerra Republicana de Catalunya in the interest of his sectarian pacts. When he refused, he was stopped. I do not know whether you gentlemen of the Socialist Party can say exactly like me that it is an honor to have someone the size of Edmundo Bal in Citizens and that it will be a luxury for the Madriders to have it in their autonomous government. I don't know if you can say the same about Mr Marlaska. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u223	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Fernández Castañón has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podem-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u224	Thank you, President. Good morning. It is terrible the feeling of loop and futility that this Asturian deputy has seeing that we are again discussing what has been discussed a moment ago and what she brought to this House in October. The truth is that the Cessation of Pérez de los Cobos was already a cause for debate in this House and is the repetitive and useless proposing group in its insistence. They say purga, and that's what former Minister Fernández Díaz did, which in the summer of 2014 told us women how we had to avoid being raped instead of putting a 24-hour care center, as this government has done, in the face of the possibility of sexual assault. In fact, he was telling us that we will try to establish conversation with our assailant. Don't be fooled, no staff member owns the position of trust assigned at any given time. Don't be fooled, a staff member who deviates from the impartiality and neutrality required for his/her function in order that it be, in this case, attacking the Government, must be ceased. Don't be fooled, Pérez de los Cobos was stopped because a false police report was published in the media that the judge herself had indicated not to spread, a report that she wanted to criminalize 8-M, the feminist movement and this government. Pérez de los Cobos used his position in the Civil Guard to try to whitewash the demented conspiracy theories of the far right and the far right and that's it, that's it. [[Applauds]] They come with this motion, ladies and gentlemen of the far right, for nothing. Do you bring this motion to improve the conditions of the Civil Guard? No, they bring this. You are more than instrumentalizing by using the symbols of the State Security Forces and Bodies, thus attacking the neutrality that these forces will undoubtedly have to have. They want to patrimonize the Police and Civil Guard when they are to be everyone's. Look, I'm thinking a lot about something that the Brazilian philosopher Marcia Tiburi says about how you can't argue with a fascist, but we do have to argue with those who aren't yet, who haven't adopted that speech. So I want to address the citizenry, which is by and for whom we are in this House, which seems to be forgotten; the citizenry that has seen Nazi propaganda - the Ministry of Social Rights and the Ministry of Equality have asked this morning to seetire and have denounced it before the Prosecutor's Office -, which goes on reading that it goes out to a dangerous neighborhood, which passes in front of a cartel that criminalizes a group in a very vulnerable situation. Actress Asaari Bibang wonders how a miserable forty-year-old can beat a twelve-year-old who is alone. Because he's been reading this sign four times. Those people have asked us what's behind the word mena, because it looks like a band and they want it not to sound like that. If they tell the truth, if they say that they are children who are alone, that they are orphans in a country where they speak a language that they do not understand, that they have left behind their family, their neighbors and their friends, that they have left behind their smells, that they have left behind their landscapes, that they flee from war, that they flee from hunger, if they say all that then they will realize the enormous aggression that is spreading with lies messages of hatred, they will realize that it is unbearable violence, that it is going against all international treaties and conventions, that it is going against the most essential thing, because I do not think of a situation more vulnerable than that of those children alone. I want to say to that citizenry that they are using them in a penultimate war against the last, so that in the meantime they do not see that they are filling their pockets, that they speculate with health in the midst of the pandemic and that they give millions of public money to editorial groups to buy the news. This is about the problems we have to deal with. I now turn to the proposing group of this motion. Mrs. Olona, Sanchez Corbí, convicted of torture and pardoned by Aznar? Your references talk a lot about yourselves. I have been listening for a while to hear how you repeat that you embody beauty, and the truth is that I thought it was somewhat risky, but curious, until yesterday, in a histrionic and sung intervention of the Greek pathos, Mr Espinosa de los Monteros, speaking of beauty, ended up calling us ugly. What an argumentative level, Your Honor! Look, words mean things, and that's very powerful, but when behind the words there are no ideas, then you can see the trap. So, if you want to talk about beauty, I address a few words from a person who left us over a year ago, who we missed a lot and who gave us words full of meaning. Luis Eduardo Aute would say to you: merchants, traffickers, more than nausea give sadness, because they did not spray beauty for a moment. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, we defend human rights, that beauty is the one that must never leave this House. Thank you. [[Prolonged applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u225	Thank you so much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mrs Jiménez-Becerril has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u226	Thank you very much, President. If a conviction does not result in political responsibility, as the PNV Member has said, why did the PNV support Rajoy's motion of censure? Let them explain it to us. I also wanted to say that I do not see Mr Marlaska here, who is being asked to resign today, the only thing I see is his empty blue armchair. Just as he has already resigned as many times as we have asked. In my first speech in this Chamber, I asked Mr Marlaska a question. I said to him: What value does his word as Minister of the Interior have when he has been able to dismiss an exemplary civilian guard for law enforcement? He replied that there had been no interference. Today, a year later, when the National High Court annulled the illegal cessation of Colonel Pérez de los Cobos and sentenced him to reinstate him in his post, I ask him again: What value does the word of an interior minister like you have? Minister, you lied then, you lied last week when you said that the cessation was weighted and fair and you will lie to us again. He then claimed lack of confidence to be able to fire a great servant of Spain, and today, that justice has proved the illegality that you committed, we demand that you return to the brave civilian guard your honor and your job, and you do what you have to do, that is to go home; although you will not resign, because you have the endorsement of Sánchez and the votes of this coalition composed of those who, like PNV and Bildu, kiss where you step, and more now that you have given up the prison competition. But let us not forget that what Mr Sánchez delivers is not prisons; alnationalism is giving him the dignity and justice that he owes to the victims of terrorism and to all the Spaniards. You are a phenomenon, Mr Sánchez, paying your debts with what is not yours, because the memory, dignity and justice of the victims of terrorism are Spain's heritage, and you cannot trade with something so valuable. And, Mr Sánchez, even if you want to avoid, even after the elections in Madrid, the picture of the indignity with which they have the key to the Basque prisons, you are already portrayed from the moment you agreed to approach and progress grade every Friday to five ETA terrorists to go paying the letters to your creditors. That was the deal, normalize ETA's terrorism and let the killers walk down the street as soon as possible. Doesn't it embarrass you, Mr Marlaska, to pass on to history, with more pity than glory, for having lent this moral abuse to the victims of terrorism? [[Applauds]] Last week the minister said he's here to return dignity to the Ministry of the Interior. Look at me - although he is not - and answer me: Do you really believe that returning dignity to the ministry is what you are doing by approaching and whitening ETA prisoners, lying when you say that prisoners ask for forgiveness and forcing Spanish society to move on just to secure power to Sanchez? Those who are going to return dignity to this House are the Members of the People's Group, who have registered a bill to protect all victims, including those of terrorism, and to avoid unfair approaches and tributes to the ages. That is the difference between the People's Party and the PSOE. We the victims want them close and you want them far away, because they stand in the way of their radical left project with independence and with ETA's heirs. That is why you say, Mr Marlaska, that I am uncomfortable with you. How am I not going to be, if in Sanchez's plans I'm left alone? The one who is not left, of course, is Otegui. Do you know what I'm telling you? That what is really left is Sánchez, and you too, Mr Marlaska, for having followed him, abandoning the right path of the fight against ETA and surrendering to the demands of this unrecognizable socialism. And with my hand in my heart I say to you, ladies and gentlemen, that we are millions of Spaniards whom we prefer to follow along the path by which we gave the lives victims of terrorism, the path of freedom and unity Spain. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u227	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, Mrs Ferrer Tesoro has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u228	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of VOX, the least you would have to do here today is ask for forgiveness, ask for public forgiveness, ask for forgiveness for the use and abuse of bad politics, noise from noise, looking for headlines with anxiety that do nothing but waste time and make them useless. Let's see if we can find out at once. Ladies and gentlemen of the ultra-rights, in plural, in plural, yes, because it seems that by 4 May we are in a market for reductions in values of dignity, decency and citizenship. [[rumors]] [[Applauds]] Mrs Olona - with the same tone as you before -, in the noble exercise of politics it is not so spoken of as minors. You do not mind the cessation of a military command, of a position of trust that is neither the first to be appointed nor will be the last to cease. You gentlemen of VOX, what you do not like is that Mr Marlaska is a minister, and that must be said. And you, gentlemen of the PP, do not like Mr Marlaska to be a minister, but especially do not like that he is the minister who is putting an end to one of the darkest times of the People's Party government in the Ministry of the Interior; that is what you do not like. [[Applauds]] I remind you that the late Colonel served in the People's Party government under the command of Minister Fernández Díaz, one of the darkest times in the Ministry of the Interior in recent decades. Ladies and gentlemen, a little serious. And above all, gentlemen of VOX, lords of pre-constitutional nostalgia, today's Civil Guard has nothing to do with the Civil Guard of the 23rd-F, of 1981, but you have endeavoured to take it to your land, to that end where you want to box the institution. You, ladies and gentlemen of the past, want to be the party of the generals, of the Legion, of the Army, but no, you are not. It is true that there are still some nostalgics, but they are bodies that swear the Constitution, that serve democracy, equal rights and that of course respect the institutions of the State, something you do not have. Every time one of yours opens his shirt to show the tattoo of me I'm very Spanish, you know what they get? Waves and waves of new nationalists. Every time they defend that a general wants to pass the weapons to millions of Spaniards, they call on the new generations to lose confidence in institutions as commendable as the Armed Forces can be. Don't they realize that every time they use the constitutional flag of Spain, that symbol that must unite us, as a logo of their party what they generate is a rejection of that symbol that is of all and that must unite us under the same ideal of a nation? [[Applauds]] And every time you talk, gentlemen of VOX, of Perez de los Cobos you simply make a fool of yourself, because you also see a lot of the plumber, because all you want is to discredit and erode the minister. You are only looking for a direct attack on Mr Marlaska, and I will tell you one thing: I assure you that the Minister, for his experience, for his professional career and for his position, will not fall into the trap of being hostage to any group or individual. And now you, ladies and gentlemen of the PP, are talking about handling at the Ministry of the Interior. Really, ladies, see to believe, see to believe. You who created a police mafia, called patriotic police, who did anything but police and serve the homeland, do you talk about handling?; handling the one they had with that little chiringuito that they had mounted in the Ministry of the Interior, of course they did. How can they question the termination of a position of trust that has created a police mafia? It is better understood, of course, when we remember that they have been convicted as a criminal organization, there it is better understood. Let's see if you find out, gentlemen of the far right, and leave the Civil Guard alone. The arrested person was not part of the Judicial Police, he was not asked for any information about the facts investigated, because those facts were already public, they were known to all. What was done was to demand explanations about something as serious as the leaking of a report that was under summary secrecy to the media by his unit. Alumni, gentlemen of the dark side of democracy, and tell us how you name your positions of trust, by merit contest, by antiquity on the lists of unemployment or because you are people who have your professional and personal trust? It's over now. Our group believes that a Minister of the Interior is assisted by authority and trust, because he has the maximum information to make decisions and all the legal means to weigh them, so he has the recognition, support and affection of the Socialist Group to continue to exercise his responsibility. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-21-CD210421.u229	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is suspended. It was one and fifty-five minutes in the afternoon.
