ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-30-CD211130.u1	Very good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The meeting was called to order. I beg you to take your seats. In accordance with Rule 68.1 of the Rules of Procedure and as agreed by the spokesmen, this Presidency submits to the plenary of the House the amendment of the agenda in the part relating to the interpellations, in the sense that the urgent inquiry of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress on the agenda as item 25 is debated before the urgent inquiry of the VOX Parliamentary Group as item 24 of the agenda. The amendment of the agenda in the section on Senate amendments is also submitted to the plenary of the House, in the sense that it is discussed in accordance with the following order: items 27, 26, 28 and 29 of the agenda. Is this how the House agrees? [[Consent]] The amendments to the agenda were therefore adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-30-CD211130.u2	We begin with the debate to take into consideration the proposed law of the Citizens Parliamentary Group on the memory, dignity and reparation of all victims of terrorism. For the presentation of the initiative, Mr Díaz Gómez has the floor. [[All right, cheers. Rumours. Pause.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the plenary is waiting for the House to be silent, please. Thank you very much. Mr. Díaz, anytime.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-30-CD211130.u3	Thank you, President. This past week, after the crossing between Mr Elorza and me on behalf of the victims of ETA and terrorism itself, some have begun to work to remove my right to be heard. These activists told me to shut up because Odón Elorza lived ETA and I didn't. About ETA can speak any Spanish; moreover, about ETA can speak any living person, because THIS was an organization against life. All other adjectives are landscape. Causes, seats, their political spokesmen are parasites that have grown at the same time as the machine gun. [[points to the seats of the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group]] But since there were personal allusions, in addition to speaking as a living Spanish, I will also speak to you as a son. Long before the attacks were front-line in the newspapers, before terrorist victims' associations existed, before there were public compensations and recognitions, ETA was already killing, and especially virulent were the 1980s. He essentially killed police, military and civilian guards, whose work was to fight against ETA and protect society. The comrades of these guards, police and military, when they killed one of them, had trouble burying them. The priests did not want to open the funerals, and they had to do them inside the barracks. The news of their murders was a footnote in the newspapers and widows and orphans were comforted and cared for by their parents' companions. Fortunately, all this changed. I'm the son of one who appeared in the papers seized after a murder in 1980. These papers were in the hands of the terrorists' informants and in them my father was pointed out as a complicated target, because every day he left home - his address was also on the papers - with the gun in his hand and because he thoroughly checked the car's bottoms, a car that was also low. Then they felt complicated. My father buried his friends Pedro Blanco García, killed by a car bomb, Luciano Cortizo Alonso, also by a lapa bomb, and Ignacio Barangua, machine gunned down Who screams there present! [[a Member of Parliament: Present!]] [[a Member of Parliament: Present!]] [[a Member of Parliament: Present!]] It is the deputy Asarta, who with my father wept these three murdered, because they were members of the General Military Academy, XXX promotion. [[Applauds]] My father also buried police officer Ángel Postigo Mejías, who had been shot six times, and had to communicate with his elasinated family. I had a seven-year-old boy. Don't ever disallow me again for talking about ETA and having been lucky not to be an orphan when I was two years old. That we don't go out here and count our lives doesn't mean we don't have them. There are thousands of children who believed that passing a mirror under their parents' car was like looking at the tire pressure. Of ETA can speak any Spanish, does not need the permission of the Socialist Party to speak of ETA. Be ashamed! [[Applauds]] Now we are going to the analysis of this necessary law brought here by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. A few weeks ago, we reported that the Democratic Memory Act was not honest, because while the crime of apologia delfranchismo was being created, the crime of apologia delfranchismo was being suppressed. The same MEP Elorza last week said that ETA did not exist and that here what existed was Francoism. This law that we bring here today opposes the aesthetic surgery that seeks the forgetfulness of ETA and, above all, the forgetfulness of the victims. This law prevents the past from being erased and terrorists from being bleached. This law is against the moral lobotomy they want to submit to Spanish society. They say in the Socialist Party that in Bildu there is no one who has anything to do with ETA, that to say it is to use the victims. Let's see the evidence. Evidence first. Over the past year there were 192 tributes to terrorists in which Bildu participated; in fact, Bildu claims that tributes to terrorists are humanitarian acts. In Bildu there are twenty-six counts convicted of terrorism - if we talk about affiliates, the thing goes off - by overrelationship with the terrorist gang What a coincidence! Look, there's people! [[shows a press clipping]] The percentage we like is high. There are organizations that don't get that, that usually get away when they see people with handcuffs, guns and stuff, and they say, here's something. But in Bildu there are few observers. Third evidence. Bildu is presided over by a man convicted of terrorism and kidnapping. Again bad luck! Look how many jobs there are! Hey, if there are 26 ornithologists in a game, someone might think that game likes birds! [[Applauds]] Fourth evidence. Bildu does not condemn terrorism and equates victims on one side with those on the other, placing terrorists and their fighters on an equal footing. Fifth evidence. Otegi said a few weeks ago: we have two hundred prisoners. He used the first person in the plural to refer to the ages in the prisons, and that first person in the plural used it together with the dome of Bildu. Hey, Otegi also speaks in plurally majestic, you know: us, Arnaldo Otegi!, but I am surprised that one who pretends to descend from the mysterious vascons uses the ancient Castilian. Faced with this evidence, I tell you what happens: Bildu are the heirs of ETA and the representatives of ETA and you, lords of the Socialist Party, are going to make sure that this inheritance accepts it for inventory benefit. What you're doing is normalizing Bildu. The real price for budget support is this: ETA did not exist and Bildu is a perfectly democratic and progressive organization. [[Applauds]] The only problem they have today is the victims. And what's your slogan? Its slogan is that if anyone mentions them, they are accused of using them, until no one remembers anything. That is why every time we denounce this they tell us: stop using the victims. They pay tribute to an ETA killer, a hall of honor in his village, the PSOE says nothing, but we go out and denounce it and the PSOE says: listen, don't use the victims. Listen, when Otegi says that there are budgets in exchange for prisoners, the PSOE keeps quiet, we go out and denounce him and says the PSOE: listen, don't use the victims. But Bildu, with whom you agree, says that the tributes to murderers are good for humanitarian reasons, and the PSOE is silent, but we introduce this law and you tell us: listen, stop using the victims. Don't you want to ban talking about the victims because it reminds you of who you're dealing with? [[Applauds]] Can you imagine that every time you mention the vilely murdered Thirteen Roses we say to them, "Listen, stop using the victims?" Why not pay tribute to the Thirteen Roses and condemn their killers by using the victims and, instead, pay tribute to the victims of Hipercor and condemn their killers by using the victims? Come up here and explain to us. I'll give you a practical assumption. Imagine that a friend of La Manada's multiple rape shows up for election and takes a seat and this guy goes to the Government of Spain and tells him to support the budgets if he takes his rapist friends to more comfortable prisons or if he applies prison benefits to them. [[Several ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Parliamentary Group make negative signs with their heads]] Do you deny me with your head? Hey, why do you think you can't negotiate with a party that represents rapists but you can negotiate with a party that represents multiple killers? [[Applauds]] I'll tell you why. Because you think killing by secession is killing less. If you were raped by the secession of the Basque Country, would that be all right? Would it be less rape? This law that we bring here proposes to punish with high fines those who allow tributes to terrorists, and the height of misery is that a few hours from bringing this vote here someone has disconnected the phone and told the ages to say that tributes better in private. That's what I'm talking about. They've got their relationship with the terrorists well fattened. I mean, we bring in a law to ban tributes to murderers, and the PSOE calls the killers to say they don't want any more tributes in public. [[Applauds]] Imagine that there is a party that organizes tributes to infamous murderers.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-30-CD211130.u4	Mr. Díaz, hold on a second, please. You cannot insult members of this House with the qualifications you are using. [[Protests.-Applause.]] I ask you, please, to keep the minimum decorum for all members of this House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-30-CD211130.u5	What would you gentlemen of the Socialist Party do? Would they ban tributes to rapists with a law like this or would they go talk to rapists' representatives and say, "Hey, when they pay you homage, you better do it in a bar, hidden, and don't forget to vote for budgets?" You treat multiple killers in a privileged way because of the poisonous fascination caused by nationalism and because your spokespersons support investments and budgets. Another issue we raise in this law is the recovery of the rights of those who had to flee the Basque Country because they appeared on those lists to which I have referred. It was many thousands who had to leave. What do you think is behind that mockery, cynical and immoral statement that the lords of Bildu often do to the People's Party, to Citizens or to VOX? Bildu tells us: you have very little representation. But, of course, they've already taken care of throwing out those who didn't vote nationalism after a lot of years of persecution. [[Applauds]] In a survey by Euskal Telebista, 67 % felt that THIS one would have to stop killing before and 9 % said it was at the right time; that is, 73 % considered that the murders were not bad at all. [[shows a poster]] This is the ecosystem that you are creating, a world where killing the righteous is fine. You're the worst you can be, you're the utilitarians. Morality doesn't count. They don't call my party yesterday to talk about this, they don't call Maite Pagazaurtundúa's comrades, they call Otegi's to fix this. Gentlemen of the PSOE, you have the worst interlocutor of democracy, and you have done so by your own choice. Look at the parliamentary bow. Me, between the party of Miguel Ángel Blanco and the party of Otegi, always with the party of Miguel Ángel Blanco. Me, between Ortega Lara's party and Otegi's party, always with Ortega Lara's party. Me, between Maite Pagaza's comrades' party and Otegi's party, always with Maite Pagaza's comrades. [[Applauds]] By voting today against this law, the PSOE, between freedom and kidnapping, chooses kidnapping; between the victim and the executioner, chooses the executioner; between power and honor, chooses power. But here's your big mistake, because you'll run out of power and, more importantly, you'll run out of honor. [[Prolonged applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, of the VOX Parliamentary Group and some of the Joint Group, standing.-Applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, some standing]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-30-CD211130.u6	Thank you, Mr. Díaz. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Martínez Oblanca, first of all, has the floor on the joint parliamentary group's position.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-30-CD211130.u7	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I support this bill because Foro Asturias has always joined all those measures that contribute, as is the case with this Citizens' initiative, to improving the treatment of victims of terrorism and to combating and punishing those behaviours that damage their memory. The initiative defended emotionally by Mr Díaz Gómez is relevant, because important gaps in the legislation adopted in September 2011 have been identified that have been warned by the associations and that have their reflection on aberrant and humiliating behaviour towards the victims and their families. On the one hand, it is known that the Government announced through the Ministry of the Interior its intention to amend the Law on Recognition and Comprehensive Protection of Victims of Terrorism, but the unfortunate circumstance has been that this legislature is progressing, paradoxically, thanks to the assistance that EH Bildu is providing to the Government of Pedro Sánchez, who, with his Copernican turn in his political relationship with this parliamentary group that does not condemn ETA terrorism, has lost all credibility in promoting measures such as those proposed to recognize, improve and extend the rights of victims, as stated in the purpose of this legislative proposal, as set out in its first article. Ladies and gentlemen, I have no doubt that this afternoon the parliamentary groups supporting the Executive will invoke arguments and pretexts that will crush the high degree of consensus reached in 2011, an achievement of society in its commitment to freedoms and its tenacity to defeat the terrorism that struck Spain for decades. This proposal for a law is an opportunity to complete the steps that have been taken to transpose European directives and Community requirements in different matters related to terrorism; steps that, on the other hand, have been bogged down pending the evaluation of Directive 2017/541, which may result in a report on the conduct of alterrorism elevation, in the case of the intolerable ongi etorri, which, although in a future light version, as announced today by its promoters, should never be considered as an exercise of freedom of expression, but as a vile attack on the memory and dignity of the victims. Finally, I do not see any incompatibility of legislation in Spain prior to the current Community assessments, because, where appropriate, this does not prevent the subsequent transposition of European directives into our legislation, which is why I voted in favour of this law being taken into account. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-30-CD211130.u8	Thank you very much, Mr Martínez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the same parliamentary group, Mr García Adanero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-30-CD211130.u9	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to congratulate Mr Díaz on his speech. From my point of view, it was a very good speech. Surely today in this debate we will hear a number of parliamentary groups, those parliamentary groups telling us that ETA was no longer to be talked about and that the victims were not to be talked about. Today, when a statement is released by the collective that supports ETA prisoners, it has taken them time to talk about ETA and the victims, because they have said that this statement demonstrates the generosity and good that these people have realized that paying a tribute to a murderer in public is perhaps excessive and that the tribute to the killer, whom they still consider a gudari, is better done in private. That is the problem of this whole issue, which is an absolutely strategic problem. I mean, as Bildu's bleaching looks bad and no one, even people who can vote at a given time to Bildu, understands that he was honored to the killers, it's said: well, let's say that this is now done in private. But under no circumstances has anyone said that it was wrong to murder or that those people were not gudaris or that they did not deserve to go out on the street, etc. In no case has that been renounced, on the contrary, there is still talk of conflict, there is still talk of political prisoners, there is talk of two sides, etc. And, as has been said here, there was the terrorist gang that was killing and supported and there was the rest of society. Of course, the first victims are those who were killed and maimed, but the rest of society that was not in favour of that terrorist gang and did not support it is also victims. As one Member of Parliament said the other day, everyone here can tell their story. Obviously, you're a victim if you've had to look under a car every day, if you've had to change your habits to get out on the street, or if you've had to give up things so as not to endanger others. Unfortunately, a lot of people lived like this. Of course, much more in the Foral Community of Navarre and in the Basque Autonomous Community, but also in Spain as a whole. Therefore, as we have said more often, here the Socialist Party is not going to be the one to say when things can be talked about. It will always be spoken, not when it suits them. They talk about a few things and, when it bothers them - in the end, it is a discomfort that is supporting them a party that still does not condemn terrorism, which continues to think that ETA had its raison d'être, because it was necessary to restrict the freedom of all citizens - there is no more talk about this issue. You can say whatever you want, but from the first day you will bear with your cross of being in government with the vote of those who still do not condemn ETA terrorism. [[Applauds]] That is so, and it will always pursue them, because, as has also been said, it is ethically reprehensible. As much as they now want to pay tributes in private and in secret, they have already been paying tributes to murderers, to gudaris, according to their language, to people who, according to them, fought to free the Basque people, and have given up nothing, because you have not asked them for anything in return, just to hide. Deep down, nothing, they didn't ask for anything. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-30-CD211130.u10	Thank you, Mr. García. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Aizpurua Arzallus has the floor for the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-30-CD211130.u11	Pick it up on. Good afternoon. Just over a month ago, we were discussing the delicate issue of receptions in this House. On that occasion, we called on all the groups in this House not to use such a complex and harsh subject, such as that of the victims, as a political weapon against each other. [[Rumors]] On that occasion, we ask that this House should not be used to generate more confrontation, more bitterness and more hatred; that the obstacles that exist should not be used and that they should exist on the path of coexistence to attack the political adversary and embarrass the debate. Today the right again makes deaf ears and again uses the pain and suffering of the victims to confront and attack; again uses the pain of some to deny and forget that of others. Once again, there is a tale full of revenge that seeks only to put obstacles in the way, and we truly regret it. But luckily, today there are also those who have lived up to the circumstances and made a huge contribution to peace, reconciliation and coexistence. Yes, Basque prisoners and prisoners have taken a significant step towards consolidating the new time we are living in, a step of great political value for all victims and for all Basque society, a positive contribution to progress. I would not like to make any interpretation of his words or to enter into polemics that do not bring about dialogue or peace, but to convey here what Basque prisoners and prisoners have transmitted to the citizenry. That's why I'm going to read some excerpts from that statement: 'Through this statement, EPPK moves our family, friends and colleagues and the Basque society that wants the receptions that are given to us when we go out to the street to take place in a private and discreet way, following the path generally undertaken in recent months. Certain agents and parties are irresponsibly seeking confrontation rather than coexistence. We do not want to feed any sterile controversy, in any way: we have the will to act constructively and be responsible. There are people who have honestly expressed pain with public ongi etorri. They are people affected by the actions of our militancy of the past and we understand that they may feel hurt. Even accepting that a prisoner who goes out to the streets after long years and harsh conditions in prison has the right to receive the hug of his relatives, these victims have expressed that public acts of reception cause them pain. We clearly say that our desire is to alleviate all suffering and open up new options, to heal wounds and to strengthen the coexistence between Basque citizens.' The statement goes on: 'As a result, after consulting our colleagues in Spanish and French prisons, and continuing other decisions taken and other previous steps, EPPK considers it desirable that our joy of being free be shared with those who are waiting for us at the same door of the prison or with those who receive us discreetly. For this reason, in the future, we only want receptions in a private space between relatives.' And the last extract I have collected from the statement reads as follows: 'This is an individual and collective contribution that Basque political prisoners and prisoners make to coexistence, to peace and to the recognition of the suffering of others, in addition to ours and that of our relatives'. I think there is little left to add to your words. It is a courageous step forward and committed to coexistence, a necessary step to alleviate the pain of all victims and a necessary step also to provide reparation to all victims. In Euskal Herria Bildu we have repeated on numerous occasions that we work to make decisive progress in the necessary reconciliation, after so many years of pain and suffering. And for that, we are convinced that it is necessary to walk towards the recognition and reparation of all victims, of all. That is why, also recently, in the statement of 18 October, the Basque independenceist left affirms the following: Moving towards a just and lasting peace needs the recognition and reparation of all, absolutely all the victims. We don't forget any of them. Today we want to make a specific mention of the victims caused by the violence of ETA. We want to convey to you our sorrow and pain for the suffering suffered. We feel his pain and, from that sincere feeling, we affirm that it should never have occurred. No one can be satisfied that all this happened or that it had lasted so long in time. We should have managed to get to Aiete first. Unfortunately, the past has no remedy and nothing we say can undo the damage caused, but we are convinced that, at least, it is possible to alleviate it from respect, consideration and memory. We want to tell you from the heart that we feel enormously their suffering and are committed to trying to mitigate it to the extent of our possibilities. They'll always find us willing to do it. This is the third point in the statement of 18 October, which, together with the EPCK communiqué, is a historic contribution to peace and coexistence. For this reason, we want to ask all of you once again to leave behind corruption, hatred and resentment; to recognize all the suffering generated in order to be able to repair it and continue the path undertaken; to move all of us on the path towards coexistence that society so demands; to leave revenge in the past and to approach the future with hope, generosity and historical responsibility. Empathy, listening and understanding between different people is and will be the key to consolidating a future in peace, coexistence and freedom, because all the people who have suffered and suffer, all the victims of all signs, deserve it and because that is what Basque society demands of us and ourselves. We are ready to continue working for all of them without rest. I hope and trust that all of you will be. [[He ends his speech in Basque, whose text, which he delivers to the Journal of Sessions, is as follows: Zuei, Basque prisonerei, mia esker bakea eta askatasunarekin hartutako kompromiso honengatik. It also facilitates the translation with the following text: To you, Basque prisoners and prisoners, thank you for this commitment you have adopted with peace and freedom]] Eskerrik asko. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-30-CD211130.u12	Thank you, Mrs. Aizpurua. [[Pausa.-A cleaning worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.-Mr Bal Francés asks for the floor.]] Yes, Mr. Bal.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-30-CD211130.u13	With reference to Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber, in connection with Rule 103, and in order to maintain the decorum of the institutions, I ask that the words of ETA be removed from the Journal of Sessions of this Chamber. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-30-CD211130.u14	For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-30-CD211130.u15	Thank you very much, President. We are discussing the consideration of an initiative to expand and supplement the current regulation on the recognition and protection of victims of terrorism. The reform addresses multiple issues, orbiting many of them around several gravitational centers that we no longer share and which are the consideration of terrorist crimes as crimes against humanity, the denaturing of the crime of raising or public justification of terrorist crimes and their perpetrators or of acts involving disregard for victims, the anticipation of the administrative punitive response to the resolution of the European debate on the reform of Directive 2017/541, as regards public provocation, the commission of a terrorist crime when there is no risk, even in abstract, and new obligations to the municipalities and their legal regime. As I said to you, ladies and gentlemen, these are the main issues of the initiative, which we do not share, on which there are many other issues and which we therefore do not share. Thus, with regard to the consideration of terrorist crimes as crimes against humanity, which allows the initiative to open the door to the application to victims of threats and harassment by terrorists of the International Statute of those who have suffered gross and serious violations of international humanitarian law, I must point out that crimes against humanity, which are crimes against the international community subject to the principle of universal jurisdiction and imprescriptibility, require as elements of the kind, according to the Statute of the International Criminal Court and in our jurisprudence, in accordance with article 607 bis of the Criminal Code, that they affect the massivity of victims, as a widespread and systematic attack on the civilian population, and that the attack is a consequence of the promotion of certain policies of a Government or of any kind of organization acting in the exercise of de facto political power, excluding acts arising from organized crime in any of its manifestations or from mafioso groups. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we are not in Spain, on the occasion of the crimes of terrorism, against crimes against humanity and, therefore, should not apply the United Nations international law on the rights of victims of serious violations of international humanitarian law which have led to mass exoduses, displacements or internal displacements, as these issues of another dimension are dealt with in the regulation of these matters. Please note, ladies and gentlemen, how the United Nations reports to the victims of internal displacement, internally displaced persons, whether they are clustered in camps or fleeing the countryside to protect themselves from possible sources of persecution and violence or dive into equally poor and dispossessed communities, are among the most vulnerable and needy populations of protection and assistance. Hence, international humanitarian law calls for the restitution of these victims to the previous situation in the form of return of their property, return to their home, return to their jobs or lost citizenship rights. Ladies and gentlemen, fortunately, Spain is not in this situation on the occasion of the terrorism that we have suffered for so long, nor - and fortunately too - is it expected that we will find ourselves in this situation in the future. Our second point of opposition to the whole concerns the punitive regulations proposed in relation to acts of heightening terrorism and those of contempt for the victims, both through the amendment of article 578 of the Criminal Code and the introduction ex novo of an administrative sanctioning regulation on the non-intervention of such acts by the public administration. To this end, I must point out that, in the light of the agreements signed within the scope of the Council of Europe, the aforementioned directive on the prevention of terrorism and European and internal case law, those conducts of exaltation and contempt are connected with the fundamental right to freedom of expression. While it is true that it is not unlimited and that when the scope of constitutional protection is exceeded it allows for punitive repression, it is no less true that, given its institutional position as one of the pillars of free and democratic societies, it is possible to claim that the exercise of the jus puniendi complies with the principle of proportionality and does not discourage the exercise of the right. It is necessary for reprehensible conduct to encourage, albeit indirect, the consummation of a situation of risk to individuals or the system of freedoms in the form of violence or hostility, or to make it possible ex post facto and to analyse the motive of the perpetrators to incite the commission of terrorist offences or to offend the victims. In the light of these requirements, we do not consider that Article 578 of the Criminal Code should be amended, since it is in line with European regulatory standards and their jurisprudential interpretation. As regards compensation for excesses, which does not necessarily involve criminal charges, I must point out that the administrative sanctioning procedure should remain, as already proposed by the Government, pending the open debate on the amendment of Directive 2007/541 on combating terrorism with regard to its advocacy or by preventing the humiliation of victims where there is no risk even in the abstract of direct or indirect violence, singularly in the case of missing terrorist gangs. Moreover, with regard to all these issues, it is difficult to understand that the initiative has described in the same way what is intended to be avoided, both through criminal and administrative law, and that the offender is different, in the first, from those who exalt or humiliate, and in the administrative law, the administration that does not prevent it would oblige the latter to an early trial of criminal law, and if it does not consider the sanctioning procedure that could be initiated, it will always be suspended until the criminal jurisdiction has resolved the guilt of its authors of apologia or contempt. I'm finishing up. In any case - this applies both to the matters we deal with today and to any other and to how the expression is exercised in this House - we all have the responsibility for how and where we use our speech and to measure the consequences of our actions. The great challenge of morality, beyond legality - I read it this weekend -...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-30-CD211130.u16	Mr. Legarda, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-30-CD211130.u17	The corporal. ... It is to take into account others, to take into account before we perform our actions and our manifestations the views of the other and what the other may feel. I think we were told some good news yesterday in this regard. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-30-CD211130.u18	Thank you very much, Mr. Legarda. Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor for the Plural Parliamentary Group. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-30-CD211130.u19	Thank you very much, President. Today I could have gone from points to a difficult, complicated subject, but I believe in the word, I believe in dialogue, I believe in peace, and that is why I have decided to intervene in this subject. A preview: never, never can anyone put themselves on the skin of a person who has lost a direct family member. It doesn't fit in my head how much pain a person must suffer when they snatch a loved one. That is why, as before, all my respect and solidarity for the victims of terrorism, all of them, all of them. Very few days ago Consuelo Ordóñez, president of the Collective of Victims of Terrorism, asked VOX to stop using the victims of terrorism to charge against their political opponents and told Pablo Casado not to use the victims of terrorism to campaign. Today there has been good news for coexistence: the prisoners ask that there be no tributes to their departure, and I am glad. A few months ago Bildu's deputy, Jon Iñarritu, who has always condemned the violence of ETA, publicly showed his solidarity, personal and profound, to a deputy of VOX, the father of a civilian guard killed by ETA. Today - and almost always - Mertxe Aizpurua has made a speech of peace, of peace. [[Rumors]] Today ten years ago ETA left the weapons, however, for some nothing has changed. The radical, ultras, intransigent rights of PP, Citizens and VOX continue to compete obscenely - obediently - for capitalizing the pain of the victims. They continue to insult one day yes and another public representatives democratically elected by citizens of this State and who deserve the same respect and consideration as any Member of this House, the same respect and consideration, because they represent people of this State. Every day this right passes it mercilessly attacks a democratic majority democratically elected by good people. This right continues to artificially prolong a conflict that has ended, which we must overcome with respect to the victims, to all, to the memory of the victims, to all. Why did not Citizens present this initiative when it ruled the People's Party and had fifty-one deputies? Why didn't you introduce her? [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-30-CD211130.u20	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-30-CD211130.u21	Why didn't the PP introduce her then? [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-30-CD211130.u22	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-30-CD211130.u23	Sometimes, when I see these debates, the right side looks to me like wild hyenas trying to draw political revenue. [[Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-30-CD211130.u24	Quiet, please. Mr. Baldoví, I ask you, please... [[Rumors]] Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-30-CD211130.u25	I've had to hear worse things from you here every day. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-30-CD211130.u26	I request silence, please, to the House. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-30-CD211130.u27	They're trying to get political results... [[The Rumors Continue]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-30-CD211130.u28	Mr. Baldoví, wait a moment, please. For the same reasons that I spoke a few minutes ago in another speech, I now speak again and ask for proper respect, terms and qualifications from all the members of this House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-30-CD211130.u29	I said they look like it to me sometimes, destroying cohabitation sometimes. They don't care about the victims, they just care about the power they lost. Let Spain sink, let us save it; that is its currency. And today and the other day a party in the UVI, Citizens, exercises from this right without scruples that is swallowing it mercilessly. Let's talk about respect, let's talk about memory. Never, ever, have I ever seen claim to this right the respect and memory of the thousands of victims of the murderous dictatorship who lie in coves of roads, in the mass graves of cemeteries or in hidden and forgotten places. [[rumors]] I have never, ever, ever seen this right claim respect and memory for the other victims, the forgotten victims and condemn their killers. And I will give only three examples, of the thousands there are, three Valencian examples: I have never seen the killers of Guillem Agullo claim or condemn; nor the murderers of Miquel Grau, two fascists who were in the street in a few years; I have never seen the right-wing claim to be chased by those who put two bombs in Sweden to the writer Joan Fuster and who were chasing him down, a few days after the investigation was closed and since 1983 it has never been known who put these bombs. [[applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, that is enough, that is enough. Enough! [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-30-CD211130.u30	Thank you, Mr. Baldoví. For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Telechea i Lozano has the floor. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-30-CD211130.u31	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, deputies and deputies. I am surprised that today Citizens bring into consideration a proposal for a law that supposedly deals with the memory, dignity and reparation of the victims of terrorism without any possibility of its success. I am surprised, because Citizens have very rigorous people, like comrade Edmundo Bal, and I am disappointed that they use such a sensitive and painful subject as this to make it a populist debate. But it has even surprised me when they have made a comparison with the crimes of macho violence, which are absolutely reprehensible. In addition, today you have to swallow your words delivered on 28 September here, in this plenary, for an initiative that you brought to this House. Look, the real and effective fight against terrorism is through international cooperation, such as the United Nations. On 8 September 2006, the United Nations General Assembly adopted by consensus the Global Counter-Terrorism Strategy, a unique instrument in the world that enhances national, regional and international counter-terrorism efforts. The fight against terrorism follows the pillars to which the United Nations refers: peace and security, sustainable development and human rights and humanitarian assistance. When these principles are followed by States and nations, it is when the fight against terrorism really takes effect. Examples of this we have many, I will expose you some, like that of the Conselleria d'Interior de la Generalitat de Catalunya, with the councillor Joan Ignasi Elena at the head, of Esquerra Republicana, who has managed to make, for the first time, the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra part of the Center of Intelligence against Terrorism and Organized Crime, which assumes that this full integration and participation is key in improving the police response in this area. Another example, the peace agreement led by Arnaldo Otegi is another clear example of the will to follow peace and security and look to the future. But in addition - here I have to make a reference - the need to bring all Basque prisoners closer to their residences must be highlighted, because it is enough to condemn the deprivation of liberty itself so that families can be punished without being able to visit them. It is unfair and also inhuman, and we do not say it by whim, but, as you will know, it is established by European prison rules, the jurisprudence of the European Court of Human Rights, as well as by the General Prison Law itself. With this legislative initiative, we see that the Lords of Citizens are only interested in certain victims of terrorism, only some, because there are also other victims of terrorism, which is State terrorism. So stop using the pain of the victims in general to sow more hatred, out of respect for all of them. That is not the way, and I believe that the path you are following, ladies and gentlemen of Citizens, is not the right one, because I refer to the facts and electoral results. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-30-CD211130.u32	Thank you, Mrs. Telechea. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Garrido Gutiérrez has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-30-CD211130.u33	Thank you, President. You, Lords of Citizens, bring us here a proposal for a law that comes late and goes wrong, out of place and time, that is badly raised and is disrespectful to the victims of terrorism. That's how you propose the law. It is late because these contents have already been worked out and incorporated into a law in 2011 and it is bad because it contains some ideas that are not understandable, or worse, are malicious. You say: '...from some public authorities you want to make the executioners look like victims'. What public authorities are they referring to? What victims are they referring to? I do not know if it is very clear to them what this is about the rights approach or the defence of human rights. I will tell you something very basic that I may not have to explain in Parliament: all victims of violations of rights have the right to truth, justice and reparation, regardless of who the victim is. But you do not quote the victims of state terrorism or the victims of jihadist terrorism, Spain being the country that suffered the worst attack of this kind in Europe. You prefer to quote exclusively the victims of ETA. Why? Because right now they are interested in using this topic to attack their political rivals and perhaps for something more frivolous: to get a few minutes of audience on television. You, lords of Citizens, who claim many times as liberals, the truth is that too many times you are doing a rather pathetic right-wing following more racy. My group - myself, as a Basque MEP - feels the pain and suffering that terrorism has caused in this country. It has touched us close and, of course, Mr Díaz, we have no problem discussing the recognition of the victims of terrorism. What we do have a problem with is the fact of instrumentalizing and using them. In Unity We can bring people together with very different paths and life experiences, but our political space has shared common elements that co-ordinate and unite us. One of them - very important - is the respect and defence of the human rights of all people and, therefore, the recognition of all victims of terrorism. There are no first and second victims. Citizens, it is not ethical to defend the recognition of those victims that we feel closer or closer to us. In Euskadi we have learned something very important and it is that in the process of recognition of the victims of terrorism we also have to offer - and this is very important - guarantees that something like this will not happen again, guarantees of non-repetition. The reconstruction of the social fabric is necessary as part of the peace and coexistence process. It is necessary to heal the social wound that every situation of violence creates. In this sense, yesterday's ETA prisoners' statement is important in response to what has long been a popular outcry in Euskadi: do not make ongi etorri, because they cause more pain to ETA victims. In short, we are talking about something we should not do. We must not use the victims, but in their proposal - I am sorry to say - I believe that they continue to use the victims, doing policy with the victims, doing bad policy with the victims and still digging trenches. And that's exactly what we shouldn't do. We must not each go with our story story and throw it in each other's face. There is no greater danger than trying to impose a single country vision. I say this as a Basque MP - and I know what I'm talking about - enough of unique stories and enough of essentialisms: one way, one way to be Basque. That was the philosophy that was partly behind the action of the terrorist band ETA. Do you recognize yourselves, gentlemen of the right? Think about it. If we work to ensure non-repetition, what needs to be done is to highlight the diverse looks, the experiences of different people, recognize all suffering and build inclusive and non-exclusive societies. What we have to tell is what we count from Podemos in Euskadi: that Euskadi has been built and is built every day with looks and diverse people, with people born in Euskadi, with people who came a long time ago from Extremadura, Galicia, with their children, with their grandchildren, with migrants who now arrive in Euskadi from Morocco or Ecuador, with people on the right and with people on the left, with people with a strong Spanish national feeling and with independenceists, and each and every one of these people falls into Basque society. We are a plural society and we are proud of it. We therefore insist on the need to build an inclusive memory, a critical review of the past that includes all suffering and all victims. Here it is not a matter - I repeat - of making the official history of what has happened, but of a shared memory that unites society in the ethical understanding of the facts. What we must do for all political forces, and that is what my parliamentary group is doing, is to create a society with a vigorous moral fabric that clearly excludes and condemns any violation of rights in the service of a political ideal. That is the way, and on that path - and I am finishing this - there are practices that we must set in motion, such as, for example, articulating mechanisms for research and analysis of what has happened with the functions that international institutions attribute to truth commissions; for example, facilitating victim/victim encounters, giving the task of making this process to civil society in order to avoid its instrumentalization, and a good example of this are the restorative encounters with experiences such as that of Maixabel, which has just been reflected in a film, and also with fourteen nominations for the Goya Awards. Zorionak from here to the entire team and I recommend to his lordships, especially from the right, to see her. Respect the victims, Lords of Citizens, Lords of the Right.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-30-CD211130.u34	Mrs. Garrido.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-30-CD211130.u35	That's not the way. [[Applauds]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-30-CD211130.u36	Thank you, Mrs. Garrido. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Salvá Verde has the floor for the VOX Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-30-CD211130.u37	With the venom. First of all, thank you for this opportunity and thank you also to Mr Díaz for that speech, which I fully take. Thank you. [[Applauds]] I had prepared a speech about the law, but, as we have talked about everything but the law here, I'm going to get into that game. Much has been said about the victims, the executioners of ETA, etc. I have listened to all groups except the PSOE and the PP, who are quite responsible for what has happened. The PP by the Bolinaga doctrine, which is a ram for ETA prisoners to get out of jail, and I hope that, unfortunately, in five years the vast majority are out. And to your lordships of the PSOE I will tell you that I never, not even in my most remote dreams, thought to see what I'm seeing. After I had killed my son, the lehendakari Patxi López, here present, came, gave me a hug and said to me textually: These are not Basques. From there to agree with the ETA heirs... this is amazing. For me, you have bloodstained hands. I'll tell you in case you didn't know. [[Applauds]] And now I am going to address the people of Bildu, especially Mrs Aizpurua and, first of all, Mr Iñarritu, since there has been a Member here who has appointed him. First, Mr Iñarritu, if it is true what you told me in a Foreign Committee, since you have come out here, I will believe you if you leave the Bildu Group and move on to the Joint Group. That's where I'm going to believe what he told me. And Mrs. Aizpurua, I'm going to say a few things. For example, if you really want that to become normal, what you have to do is condemn the violence, condemn the crimes of ETA, let the 376 unresolved cases come out at once - if not, this is absolutely useless - and ask for forgiveness personally from each of the victims. [[Applauds]] Now I'm going to give you an example. I don't remember the year, but I do remember the age and the victim. After a stretch of shooting a victim, this victim - who was a national police officer, who, if I don't remember, worked on the DNI - got her into an ambulance, still breathing. For that stage stopped the ambulance, caught the victim by the hair and with a shotgun of cannons cut off - I understand - unscrewed his face. If each of the ages goes and apologizes to the victims and if no charge of Bildu who has blood crimes is part of a government, whatever it is, of a city council, etc., from there I will believe them. Because there's one thing worse than an etorri ongi: it's to see a blood felony charge charged from the public treasury. That can't be under any circumstances. [[Applauds]] It's worse than an etorri ongi! You have spoken of many things, that you intend to normalize a situation that can never be normal, since you represent some gentlemen - you represent or are heirs or whatever you want to be - you have murdered. We're talking about the murder. We are not talking about the EREs of Andalusia, about 600 million euros; we are not talking about the Kitchen; we are not talking about money corruption. We're talking about crimes, like the Marseille Mafia. You have caused enormous pain, enormous damage. It's irreparable. Again, 376 unsolved crimes, I reminded you of that in the last intervention I had here. I've left the O.R. to come here and have moments like this. If the 376s don't come out, if every age that's killed a victim doesn't go to the families and apologizes to them, there's absolutely nothing to do. That's it. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, stood up, and the ladies and gentlemen of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-30-CD211130.u38	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr. Mateu Istúriz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-30-CD211130.u39	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Mrs Aizpurua, I will still have to apologize for being a victim of terrorism and of course thank the prisoners for not victimizing us any more and not making us suffer. His speech has certainly been of the most sordid stage that the killers have had. That's what I'm telling you, with all the clarity in the world. It is a good thing that this morning we attended the commemoration of the 40th anniversary of the Association of Victims of Terrorism. At least we have heard words of support, affection and understanding towards the victims of terrorism, and there has been the People's Parliamentary Group, but, ladies and gentlemen who support the Socialcommunist Government, I do not know whether because there was a very faint light, I have not seen any of you there. What's going on? That you certainly do not want the victims of terrorism at all, is a real human misery. [[Applauds]] I'm telling you clearly, human misery. The debate and approval, ladies and gentlemen, of the General Budgets of the State for the year 2022 has been the exercise of greatest affront and recognizance, I tell you clearly, for the victims of terrorism. There is still an irrespirable stench in this Chamber as the annual accounts have been approved with the support and assistance of Bildu, of ETA's political heirs. What is it, that there were no other democratic forces that could have supported their budgets, ladies and gentlemen? In the words of our president, Pablo Casado, who I subscribe from A to Z, this pact has frozen the blood of the victims of ETA and evidence that the Socialist Workers Party is suffering a real moral eclipse. [[The Lord]] Ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE, what an indignity yours is. Are you going to pass this bill? Retreat, have courage and say at once what you think about the victims, choose others other than the billionaires for their pacts, who have means and people to do so. We ourselves would be willing to support you in many cases if you were otherwise. Why, then, the show Mr. Elorza gave us? It was unfortunate; we didn't understand. Why? Because, if it is so worthy, it is much easier, instead of shouting, to say: I do not want to agree with Bildu's partners and with the ages. And on top of that he called us coups, he called us Francoists, right-wing with a coup vocation in the way and likeness of Brazil and President Trump. I insist, gentlemen of the PSOE, what are you going to vote for? We'll see about that. Ladies and gentlemen of the PNV - I respectfully address Mr of the PNV - be very careful, because the Social Communist Government has found another more ductile and malleable partner to deal with. Be very careful because now the tree will be moved by others and the nuts will be picked up by others in the form of release from prison by terrorists. Ladies and gentlemen, let's talk about legislative content, let's talk about effectiveness for the victims of terrorism. It is regrettable for the victims of terrorism that we are still walking around with the gestures of recognition of memory, dignity, justice and truth. The time since the beginning of the murders of ETA the truth is that it does not favor us, and it does not favor us because for the current rulers we are a nuisance and they do not want us at all. Ladies and gentlemen of Citizens, we obviously share your bill; we share many interesting points for the victims of terrorism, and above all for the coexistence with them in Spanish territory, but I must tell you that we too in April are presenting a proposal for an organic law to improve the regime for the protection of victims of the crime contained in our proposals. It is still pending, as you are well aware, in your handling of this House, but it contains a series of measures that improve the protection regime for victims, especially victims of terrorism, and that is how we seek to bridge gaps in the defence of their dignity and of their rights as a whole. In Essen - because time does not allow me to deepen; already we will deepen in the aforementioned measures, which are very timely, when the organic bill is processed - we propose the amendment of several laws. Of course, we are trying to amend the Victims of Crime Statute of 2015 for having provided for a low level of victim participation in the sentence execution phase. Also, by amending the Statute of the Victims of Crime, we try to make the case of both prison and judicial files available to the victims so that they can have recourse to them through the various systems of remedies that exist in the Spanish legislative process. In addition, we intend to amend the Prison Rules and the Organic Law of the Judiciary. We also want absolute follow-up of the progression to the third degree in the execution of sentences of prisoners through the amendment of the General Organic Penitentiary Law and, of course, we want absolutely to eliminate this absurd, ridiculous and pathetic exaltation of the ongi etorri, which provoke a new victimization for the victims of terrorism, through the amendment of the Organic Law Regulating the Right of Meeting and the Organic Law for the Protection of Citizen Security. Obviously, the statement she has told us with that penalty, that with mercy, Mrs.Aizpurua is again a deception. Do you think we're fools the victims of terrorism? Don't you think every time Bildu talks he responds to a strategy he thinks? He's still talking about political prisoners. But, my God! Let us not swallow, Mrs. Aizpurua!, that we will not go that way, we do not believe it. [[Applauds]] , and we must remember what the European Parliament said in the years 2018 and 2019 about tributes to the victims of terrorism. Ladies and gentlemen, we know that it will be very difficult to bring forward this legislative initiative in honour and honour of the victims of terrorism by the composition of this House, because for most political groups the victims of terrorism unfortunately today are a hindrance. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm finishing up. ETA has been Spain's longest and deadliest terrorist organization, with 873 deaths, more than 3,000 wounded and 67 kidnapped, not to mention those who had to flee, between 60,000 and 200,000 expelled by the aforementioned terrorist gang, according to estimates of the Basque Institute of Criminology prepared in 2011, figures that hide thousands of families marked by the whim of terrorists who one day freely decided to murder, kidnap, threaten and extort to double the rule of law and impose their totalitarian and exclusive political project, and unfortunately also counted on a political, economic and social framework to protect and justify their criminal actions. When the Socialcommunist Government and its budget partners are currently trying to rewrite the history of terrorism and impose a manipulated memory, it is essential to unite all the people here who do not share that socialcommunist bloc and support it. I conclude by recalling some words uttered by his majesty the king at the inauguration of the Memorial Centre for Victims of Terrorism on June 1st in Vitoria: The memory of the victims is an essential element to prevent any legitimation or justification of terrorism and so that the unjust pain caused to the victims will not be repeated. Ladies and gentlemen, encourage us to make these words come true, encourage those who still have some conscience. Your conscience will thank you so that you can sleep peacefully at night. Thank you very much. [[Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, on the floor]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-30-CD211130.u40	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, Mr López Álvarez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-30-CD211130.u41	Mr President, first of all I want to apologize for this tone of voice, that a pharyngitis has it for me in this unfortunate state, but since I have the opportunity I wanted to say some things that matter to me, because today we have attended a new chapter of that championship that keeps the right to see who is the most and best insult to the government and the socialists especially, and therefore to whom they applaud more and hang more medals, which is nothing more than a regrettable way of understanding politics, in which the first lesson should be: not everything is worth attacking the adversary. [[Applauds]] The excuse is to make a law for the memory, reparation and dignity of the victims, which would be a commendable goal. But there is already one, there is one and, moreover, you know perfectly well - because the minister has said it over and over - that work is being done to update it, to modify it, precisely in what you say you are concerned about, in the exaltation of terrorism and the humiliation of the victims. In his proposal, most things are already in the law that exists; others make no sense, such as trying to amend two organic laws - the Electoral Law and the Penal Code - with an ordinary law; others we do not share, and others we do share. And we could have worked together on reforming that law, but you don't want that, no; you wanted to come here with your initiative to make your speech because everyone plays to see who is the champion of the world in support of the victims while pointing out to the government and the socialists that we are the ones who abandon them. First thought. Champions of the world in this, few, not to mention absolutely no one. We should start with an exercise of humility and reality, because all, all political formations - and I say all - for too long we abandon the victims of terrorism. I remember the years of lead. I was a young socialist and went to the parish, to the church in St. Joseph's Square, to funerals almost every week, almost clandestine funerals. And after the funeral, a young widow, torn by pain, returned to her village of Galicia, Extremadura, Andalusia, Castile, accompanied only by the body of her murdered husband. Alone! I remember the victims who stayed in Euskadi, who were not enough to have killed a loved one, had to endure being pointed out, stigmatized, marginalized by much of society in what was the cruelest, worst, most immoral form of connivance with terrorism. Today, fortunately, these victims do not have to lower their heads or change their sidewalks. Today they are a social reference because fortunately we react; although late, we react to this. So, world champions, no one. Now yes, let me tell you that the Spanish and Basque law supporting the victims were done by the socialists. [[Applauds]] Let me tell you that it was the Socialists who established November 10 as Memory Day. It was the Socialists who laid the foundations for the Institute of Memory and Co-existence in Euskadi. Whoever started the Memorial of Victims of Terrorism was the socialists. Who put in place the map of memory, the programs of the educational victims, the recovery of public spaces for the Democrats, the program of education for connivance, the restorative encounters, all this, which is all that is in the field of the victims, everything we socialists did, not you. [[Applauds]] Socialists. Therefore, who really supports and cares for the victims and who uses them only in speeches? Lessons on this? Two quick things because I have little time. One, the receptions. Socialists are repugnant to the ongi etorri of ETA prisoners because they are a humiliation for the victims and a humiliation for society as a whole, which cannot tolerate the reception of a murderer as if he were a hero. That's why what we met yesterday is good news. Can you ever be glad for good news? Because this is the victory of the victims, it is the victory of social pressure, which could not tolerate this being done. Meanwhile, you have been lying one day after another because you know perfectly well that these receptions are not decided by the Government. The delegate of the Government, whenever he is aware of one of them, puts all the information in the prosecutor's office, because it is the courts that decide these issues. And the previous delegate of the People's Party knows very well, who got tired of going to the penal track and succeeded zero. And there were three times as many receptions at that stage. The difference is that socialists do not use this to attack the People's Party. [[Applauds]] And, second, a quick clarification. I'll tell you why they use the victims. I respect them absolutely, even those who insult me, but you bring here testimonies of some victims to accuse us of the worst. How would you like me to bring the testimony of others and bring what Gregorio Ordóñez's sister said the other day in support of my colleague Odón Elorza? Or what the children of Froilán Elespe say? Or what Ernest Lluch's daughter says? Or what Maixabel says? Shall we play this? To face some victims against others? This would be the worst, the most indecent, the most immoral. And they're playing that. [[Applauds]] Therefore, apply the ratings. The corporal. It seems to me an insult to ask the socialists whether we choose between freedom or kidnapping, because the socialists have given their lives for freedom in this country. What happens is that we have never renounced dignity, something that others have long renounced. [[Prolonged applause of the Socialist Members of the Parliamentary Group, put to the floor]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-30-CD211130.u42	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-30-CD211130.u43	We move on to the agenda item on non-legislative proposals. We begin with the non-law proposal of the Republican Parliamentary Group, on the increase of the game tax and the limitation of its advertising. For the presentation of the initiative, Mrs Rosique i Saltor has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-30-CD211130.u44	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, in five years the average number of online players in the Spanish state has tripled. Approximately one in twenty teens presents a risk of gambling addiction. The risk profile is of a working-class teenage man. The average age of pathological players is 23 years, two years younger than me. Meanwhile, the gambling sector moves almost 50 billion a year, accounting for 0.9 % of GDP. Today, we again present an initiative, this time in plenary, to move towards the abolition of a dirty and disgusting business such as gambling and gambling. We want mental health to be a political priority and ludopathy is a serious contributor to deteriorating mental health. And we want to dignify the workers and we cannot tolerate helping to impoverish the most impoverished. Look where most gambling houses are located, you will see that they are mostly located in working-class neighborhoods. It's no coincidence. Given that the competitive framework for online gambling is now state-owned, we make three simple proposals that the government should implement immediately to end this social and health scourge. First, the online gambling tax must be raised to at least 30%. The People's Party government was already in charge in 2018 of lowering it from 25% to 20% and since then no one has touched a coma. We're talking about funeral services or a bicycle, for example, taxing more than online gambling. Moreover, while 51% of a tobacco cigarette is recorded because of the negative impact on physical health, 20% is recorded on the online game, which negatively affects mental health. Anyone would think that mental health does not deserve the same consideration by this State. [[Applauds]] Secondly, we would also like to propose that the specific taxation regime in Ceuta and Melilla be abolished. Someone should explain to us - and very well - what is the point of having a business like online gambling, which has an impact at state and international level, has a tax paradise in Ceuta and Melilla. Anyone would think it was the back door that the Government left open while selling to the media that limited advertising. Thirdly, we propose that there be no advertising of the online game of any kind and that it be equated with tobacco limitation. While the limitation that was made is a step forward - and we have to recognize it -, now we have to get the ban. Let us share with you a rhetorical question that we ask ourselves about this: why does all this happen? Why is he allowed? Why is it promoted? The consumption of online gambling is highly likely to be so high because the state fails. When public services do not guarantee basic needs, when the wage is far from the standard of living, when one has ruled out being able to get rich through professional promotion, when one has no money, resorts to chance, and that is when online gambling feeds on precariousness. It is likely that there are always open doors to this business because there are economic or political interests in it. An example of this are some revolving doors that have been lived in this state. See the example of former Minister Rafael Catalá, who, after lowering the tax on the game from 25 to 20 % - casually - checked out by the gaming company. Casualty? We don't think so. [[Applauds]] Let us end with the following reflection: the game business is not based on luck; no one would invest in a business that they don't know if it's profitable. The game business is based on a modern and attractive strategy for the richest to steal money from the least rich, making the latter feel responsible for it. Ladies and gentlemen, this is called capitalism, banking always wins. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-30-CD211130.u45	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] In defence of the amendment put forward by your groups, the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, Mrs Muñoz Dalda, intervenes.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-30-CD211130.u46	Thank you, President. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. The position of the United Nations We can in relation to the gambling business is very clear, and we have said it many times: it seems to us that this sector takes advantage of precariousness, poverty and, particularly, the younger people, giving false hopes of success to people who live in very difficult economic situations and those who end up ruining, to them and their families, and even generating a disease such as that of ludopathy. In Unidad Podemos We have always denounced that the gambling and betting sector, through the advertising bombing, has somehow tried to give an image that betting means something fun, a playful activity, leisure, and they have worked so hard to associate in the betting in the game with the image of social success and personal success and that exaltation of profit as if it were something easy, as if it were something simple to get, something that has usually been done through advertising, for example, associated with famous people. Not only have we denounced it, but we have worked in the streets and in the institutions to ensure that advertising is regulated today, and we are celebrating the real decree promoted by the Ministry of Consumer Affairs, which seeks to prevent this activity from continuing to be presented as a leisure activity linked to social and personal success and to rapid and secure profit. It seems to us that this is an important step to put a stop to the discontrol that existed in such advertising, to that savage invasion that we have had to live in all areas in recent years: on radio, on television, on the Internet, on the shirts of sports equipment, etc. We have also denounced this proliferation of betting houses in popular neighbourhoods and in the vicinity of educational centres, parks and public places frequenting, above all, young people. Of course, I believe that the position of the United Nations We can on the issue of ludopathy and gambling houses is very clear and therefore we are in favour of all the measures that can be taken, also those that are reflected in a way, I think that is not rigorous, in this GNP. And of course we are in favour of the study and the rise in the rates associated with the gambling tax as set out in our amendment, which we have tabled together with the Socialist Group. If the amendment is accepted, we will vote in favour. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-30-CD211130.u47	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Viondi has the floor for the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-30-CD211130.u48	Good afternoon, everyone and everyone. Let me, Mr President, in my capacity as a Madridn, a Member for Madrid and a reader, pay tribute today to someone so close to this city that we lack: Almudena Grandes. [[Applauds]] Coming into question, in relation to the non-law proposal that has brought us Republican Left of Catalonia, I will comment on some aspects of the points that you have brought us here. As far as taxation is concerned, what you propose creates an imbalance and discrimination against other legal activities within the game, so it is impossible to carry it out as you bring it here. With regard to the section on autonomous communities, we in the Socialist Group believe that it should be directly linked to the reform of autonomous financing. There's a white book you're working on, and that's the right way. As far as Ceuta and Melilla are concerned, we do not consider them to be any tax haven, they are activities that are generated so that there is precisely economic activity in two territories of this country that are well in need of economic impulse. As far as advertising is concerned, we cannot share your vision, because the Royal Commercial Communications Decree of the activities of the game has barely been in force for a hundred days. Therefore, in your non-legislative proposal the substance, formally, may even be interesting, there are even sections that we can share, but the forms we have seen are inadequate, because you have already brought it here in two budget amendments, we have discussed it in the Joint Committee on Addenda, the Republican Group has agreed with the Socialist Group, and it seems to you today that our amendment is not appropriate to you. As for rigor, I have to say that when we talk about taxation and these areas we have to deal with them with a clear rigor, and we have given you point-by-point details of the elements that you bring us and are not properly collected. However, we are deeply shocked that in the context of his intervention he has hardly mentioned the face-to-face game, which is the direct competence of the autonomous communities, in relation to which we in this very headquarters have proposed clear measures: we must end up in certain streets of very significant working-class neighborhoods with the grouping of gambling venues, which are not betting houses. We have repeatedly said that Madrid and Murcia are the example of condensation of the game and that those same autonomous governments presided over by the People's Party and - today we have already known it - supported by VOX are against reforming the Law of Regulation of the Game, which allows it. In your proposal, Mrs Rosique, you do not propose any concrete action in an area that we believe is fundamental, because addictions are not combated or eliminated exclusively by imposing fiscal burdens on legal and regulated activity, but with the three fundamental elements of which the third sector speaks and which we share: education, prevention and care for those who suffer. In your text you speak absolutely nothing about it and even in your own speech you have not shared anything about it. It seems that what you are looking for with this non-law proposition is, precisely, to say that you are the redeemers of the game simply by raising the tax burden to an activity that is legal. The Government has done its duty. Since the government pact between the Podemos and the Socialist Party, we have been complying point by point with what we signed at the time. The rate of play has been modified to generate new revenue and, therefore, there are more preventive policies, which, by the way, must be implemented by the autonomous communities and the municipalities. Advertising has been banned, as we committed ourselves to the agreement, and is being carried out. I remind you, it hasn't been in effect for a hundred days. When you see a game of any sport, it's no longer smashing; you don't have to watch Operation Camarón or play any of those gaming portals since there's a match of the Spanish football team. In addition, a real safe play decree is being worked out, with the participation of all the entities, both those in the third sector and the companies working in the game sector. Finally, the bottom may be positive, but the forms are wrong and rigour is clearly insufficient. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-30-CD211130.u49	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group to set positions.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-30-CD211130.u50	Thank you very much, Mr President. Contrary to what it might seem, this is not a proposal to combat the ludopathy and pernicious effects of the game, exacerbated by the confinements during the pandemic and by the proliferation of online betting; this is an initiative to modify upwards the tax conditions around the game and the limitation of its advertising, but thus the addiction to the game is not avoided neither its danger nor the personal and family ruin it entails. The problems of pathological conduct are solved by another way, which is not that of taxation, but of health. Ladies and gentlemen, with regard to advertising, it should be remembered that the Royal Commercial Communications Decree for gambling activities has been in force for a very short time - a matter of months. In this regulation there is a broad chapter specifically devoted to active policies for the information and protection of users, which develops obligations for operators and the application of intervention and control mechanisms to detect risk behaviours. Similarly, with regard to taxation, which I believe is the basis of this equivocal initiative, the existence of the Game Policy Council, in which the autonomous communities are involved together with the State, should be highlighted and the aim should be to promote the convergence of the legal and fiscal regime in this area. This body is the appropriate framework for introducing changes in the tax rates applicable to gambling activities. Finally, I would like to point out that the worrying increase in gambling among our young people is another good demonstration of the futility of the Ministry of Consumer Affairs, whose holder evades its responsibility in this area. Indeed, Mrs Rosique, with this bad Council of Ministers which you support, banking wins, our young people lose and society becomes poorer. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-30-CD211130.u51	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Botran Pahissa has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-30-CD211130.u52	Thank you, President. Since wage labour exists, the economically dominant classes have developed strategies for re-appropriating the wage of the working class, for example by raising the prices of housing - and today a housing is insecure if it is not through debt, especially with the bank -, by raising the price of supplies - of light, water, fuel -, with the programmed obsolescence of things like this, a mobile, which has an average duration of about twenty months, and also with this proliferation of gambling houses, especially in popular neighborhoods. Yesterday, the Levante newspaper published a study of the Dissens Association that analyzed a district of popular classes, LaSaïdia, a district of 25,000 inhabitants in which they located eight betting houses for 25,000 inhabitants - betting houses, do not count the betting machines that are in the bars - and of these eight betting houses all did not comply with the Valencian rules of the game of being more than 850 meters from an educational center. All educational centres in the district of Saïdia have a betting house in their surroundings. Gambling houses have not appeared by chance, they are also a strategy of capital, because behind them are the famous investment funds. The main betting houses are owned by vulture funds, both Codere As, for example, Sportium are, and this second is owned by a well-known fund, Blackstone, that fund from which we already know how to lobby against public housing policies. The problem is that these investment funds are very powerful and, when the president of a government that wants to be left-wing goes to the United States, Blackstone is one of the investment funds with which it prioritizes meeting. And that is also the understanding of this Government's unfulfilled promises and failures with regard to housing, for example, or also with regard to gambling houses. Let us remember that United We can propose to end and close the betting houses and also end the advertising of the game, and we are very far from getting it. We will support this GNP and defend what has been defended by the movement of neighborhoods against betting houses: the closure of betting houses, more budget allocation for public health to combat the ludopathy and debt forgiveness of people who have contracted debt through these betting houses. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-30-CD211130.u53	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Matute García de Jalón has the floor for the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-30-CD211130.u54	Thank you very much, Mr President. Today we have a position on an initiative that has been put forward by Esquerra Republicana de Catalunya, an initiative in favour of increasing the tax for gambling and advertising bidding. Our vote will be in favour. It is going to be a positive vote because we are aware that the proponents understand that this is a step, just one more step of the many that must be taken in the right direction to end a strategy that is well defined. Throughout their justification and explanatory statement, it was pointed out how taxes for the gambling sector - in this case online gambling - had fallen during the PP governments from 25 % to 20 % and that is why they propose in their initiative to increase them to 30 %. And it's okay, but we're much more concerned about the strategy behind all this gambling, gambling online and especially gambling. It is a strategy that is fundamentally based on two legs, which are nothing new, even though the online game has recently arrived in our lives, because the game has been with us for centuries. It is the accumulation of wealth in less hands, grabbing that of those who have less and less, and it is, in short, as the young organized from some working-class neighborhoods of Euskal Herria - and I understand that from many other places of the Spanish state - 'our misery, your wealth'. But it is, in short, also a clear attempt to alienate youth, is to try to numb it. Perhaps we are talking about the new opium of the people, perhaps it is not exaggerated when it is said that the whole phenomenon associated with the betting houses and the additions they generate are but another face of a currency that we already live in the 1980s, with another kind of lethal addictions for important parts of the youth of our peoples and that is now manifested through this reality. Because, in short, either of the two readings - the accumulation of wealth or the alienation of youth - are but two characteristics of the economy of vulnerability, which is what really drives this debate and the fateful time that lives in many neighborhoods of the working class of Euskal Herria and I suppose also of the Spanish State. It is relatively easy that in places where the horizon is more and more difficult to see, where the present is hard and where the future is absolutely uncertain, someone understands that through a bet he can change his life to, in this case, press the button of the famous social lift, which is never when needed. But this isn't just rhetoric. The Basque Youth Observatory points out that there are 18,000 Basques and Basques who are hooked in different degrees of addition to this called ludopathy. And they have three characteristics: one, they are under 25; another, they have low education, and the third, they live in environments with unfavourable economic situations. These three casuistics only occur in the working-class neighborhoods, in the working-class neighborhoods, because it is difficult to find the three in other neighborhoods. That probably explains why gambling houses are less present in those high neighborhoods than in the working class neighborhoods. But by going to the specifics of what the initiative of Esquerra Republicana proposes, we are interested in pointing out or marking some elements. It seems important to us that tax havens should not be sheltered in any way and that the autonomy of the autonomous communities should also be respected, because I believe that some autonomous communities are doing things. In the Basque Autonomous Community too, things are being done, and we have no pain in recognizing it, when it is said that more than 40 bookmakers are going to be closed or when it is said that advertising on public channels is going to be banned; I hope at all. We believe that raising taxes is fine, in this case not only with a mere desire to collect, but above all to try to hinder the work of this type of business. We think it is important to combat advertising, because we have years of advantage, ladies and gentlemen, with absolutely misleading advertising; using presenters and reference icons for many young people present this as an easy way out and as an absolutely accessible way out of a difficult economic situation. They have also done so using icons or sports references. There are exceptions that deserve to be noted because they are positive, such as the Royal Football Society, when it decided not to wear any advertising on its T-shirt. But we also need to talk about the algorithms that are hanging on our children's mobile phones and supports to make them see that playing is much easier than trying to build a future in a much more dignified and honest way. In any case, we must combat misleading advertising, because if we do not end up believing things like the one that appears today and crowns different front pages of the Spanish media, there is a person who has come from a tycoon to a textile industry. They have forgotten to say that the one who started out as an addict was the daughter of the textile magnate, who has decided to hand over the company - in this case - to the new textile magnate. But as I say, we have to fight all these realities so that we don't believe everything they tell us, because attacking them on the tax side is fine, but let me not be so naive as to think that this is going to happen like what happened with Al Capone, that really for this little trifle we are going to end up with an empire that has little positive for our reality. In any case, I believe that for those who go out to this rostrum to say that they create employment, it is necessary to remind them that there are nothing decent activities that would also create employment, such as slavery and white trade, and no one would dare to defend that, because they create employment, they must be sustained.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-30-CD211130.u55	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Agirretxea Urresti has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-30-CD211130.u56	Thank you, Mr. President. I believe that most of the people who have come up to this rostrum have said sensible things, things that we almost all share, regardless of any other issue that is out of the context itself, but as far as what we are dealing with is concerned, I think that most of us have said quite similar things. No one has praised the game - as is normal - no one has said that the money spent by young people who hook up to computers to play online or in gambling houses is right. That is to say, issues of common sense, which do not need to be turned around so that they can be shared. That's the situation. Obviously, the game is not profitable, as is said in a phrase in Basque: jokoa ez da errenta. The excess of the game, that is, let's say that its pathology would be ludopathy in this case, I do not know ludopathy without ruin; that is, it is not only a question of mental health, but also of economic health afterwards. Obviously, in view of this, we have no doubt the public authorities have an obligation to combat this situation, because it obviously goes against public health, it goes against the economy and it goes against any situation of a healthy economy or society. First of all, I am going to say that we are going to support this proposal, although let us say that the operative part only talks about tax matters. It has already been repeated by other colleagues too. So here we have two issues: on the one hand, the issue of gambling addiction and, on the other, tax measures, which only impact on the owners of gambling houses; that is, little or nothing has to do with the addicts or the people who play. We suppose that if you raise the tax side, as a result, it would have a surcharge, but, well, that's kind of a consequence. Therefore, there is a double aspect to this proposal, although the operative part only speaks of one of them. In that sense, some fellow has said so. For example, in Euskadi the observatory has made a profile, a prototype of a person who is addicted. They have already said exactly: under 25, man, with lower education and very vulnerable economic situation. But not only do we have what the observatory has said, but before that, and before making a new regulation of the game in Euskadi, I would like to point out that the Basque Government has already studied certain measures that it is going to put forward in this regulation. Therefore: distances between the premises, no advertising - only between six in the morning and twelve in the evening - do not renew or grant any more permits for gaming machine installations in hotels, etc. And such measures have also been taken in the Foral Community of Navarre. I therefore believe that public institutions are taking action and I assume that other autonomous communities will have developed them as well. In the face of this thesis, the question I ask myself is: apart from collecting more, will we achieve anything more with the imposition of this ascent? In this case - they have said so - there was a 25, then it fell to a 20, and apart is the capacity that the autonomous communities have to be able to reach another 30, which is what the proposal seeks. We, in this case, would have to adapt the economic concert to the same, but it is not a problem. Therefore, we have no problem increasing this type of tax on our part. Now, what steps are we going to take so that young people no longer come closer to these kinds of issues - ludopathy, gambling addiction - that are going to ruin their lives? Because nowadays, if the anger of the locals itself already generates in some places controversy, with the tablet or with a computer you can get to anywhere in the world, and that's not public, that's private, and there you are getting more addiction, more addiction!, and you are losing a lot of money. We therefore believe that the two issues must be combated. These measures proposed by the Republican Parliamentary Group are fine, but we need something more. We need to do something much broader if the goal is to prevent our young people from falling into the game and, as a result, into ludopathy. Some speeches imply that the solution would be to ban the game, but it is not intended to ban the game, although neither will we propose measures to facilitate. The solution that some have given is the ban, not this increase of 10%. I do not think this 10% increase is very similar to the ban.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-30-CD211130.u57	Your Honor, you must finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-30-CD211130.u58	So, I end by saying that we are going to support GNP. As we have said, we agree with the approach and each autonomous community will then be free to see what application it makes on the basis of its regulation, but we have to bear in mind that many more measures are needed. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-30-CD211130.u59	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Martínez Granados has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-30-CD211130.u60	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now discussing a proposal that, as a mother and a liberal, concerns me particularly: the protection of minors and people who tend to develop addictions to the boom and expansion of online gambling. At the bottom of the question, in the diagnosis, we find common ground, because, while liberals defend freedom of enterprise and moderate taxes, we also know that there is no less free person than that who depends on an addiction. That is why, ladies and gentlemen of the Republican Left, we must tell you that, by agreeing with the diagnosis, this proposal disappoints us with regard to the proposed solutions. You address the very serious problem of compulsive gambling and gambling addiction from a double perspective, which is actually the same as always, which you propose for all the problems of the world: to raise taxes or prohibit things. When they don't like it, they tried to ban it and, if they can't, they put a tax on it; sometimes they make a clamp with a combination of the two until the sector drowns. First of all, they ask you to increase the tax rate applicable to the game up to 30% and raise the maximum of the autonomous tax on the game up to 30% as well. In this way, they would allow the autonomous communities to raise taxes on the game above what is currently provided for by Law 13/2011 of 27 May on Game Regulation. On the other hand, they propose to apply a limitation of advertising to the game similar to that applicable to tobacco, making the ban on advertising effective instead of the current limitations. Let me tell you that we are missing fundamental aspects of their purpose, such as educational activities, awareness-raising campaigns and optional support, so that the protection of vulnerable persons can be combined with the freedom and equality of all citizens. It is not a partisan issue, ladies and gentlemen, but a matter of deep conviction. Liberals have been working on this for a long time; and I say a lot because I want to remember that it was Citizens who abandoned parliamentary work to protect mental health that, of course, is also affected by gambling addiction or any other activity or substance. He said that as liberals we bet a clear and determined political action to combine two fundamental principles: the prevention of pathologies and disorders arising from addictions, especially in minors, because - as he said - only thus can we guarantee the freedom of people, but without forgetting the right to freedom of enterprise, which allows an individual by himself or in an organized way to establish the business that he wishes according to the law in force. In this line, Citizens has been working on digital solutions to prevent, for example, minors from accessing gambling houses, improving access controls and encouraging parents to be included in the non-player register, in order to prevent their children from using their credit cards to play. We have also proposed to prohibit the opening of betting houses in the vicinity of schools, cultural centres and other facilities where there is a considerable influx of minors, because with this, ladies and gentlemen, we all win and do not lose anyone. It is an example of firm and rigorous action that does not violate citizens' rights. In addition, I would like to recall that Citizens, from the Government of the Community of Madrid, have already reformed the inspection to ensure that all premises established for the game meet the requirements to prevent the entry of minors. In addition, in other communities where we govern, we have also proposed measures such as expanding safe areas around educational, cultural or sports facilities. Citizens' choice is therefore clear and articulated around three action plans: the protection of minors, the prevention and treatment of addictive behaviors and the prevention of criminalization of a sector and players with moderate gambling behaviors. Let's go from the debate of ideas to the data. Experience suggests that tax increases to the legal game end up asphyxiating licensed operators decisively, while players end up transferring the game to illegality, where it is more difficult to control and is more likely to provoke addictive behavior. In Spain players can opt for offshore alternatives operated in tax havens - which would make us have much less income in the state through taxes - so what they intend to do does not solve the root problem. In short, we believe that there is room to act in the prevention of gambling-related disorders without the need to touch the pocket of businesses and citizens again. And, of course, one thing that must be central is the education and protection of addicts. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-30-CD211130.u61	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Rego Candaimil has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-30-CD211130.u62	Thank you, Mr. President. Marta Rosique said that the game business is not based on luck and it's true, it's mainly based on despair. It is well known that always in times of crisis there are those who do business at the expense of that despair or the illusory search for individual exits that, far from being so, often deepen in situations of poverty, precariousness and exclusion. We are not surprised that there are companies that want to do business, what is really worrying is that the State allows it and protects it, that it allows individuals to profit in this way with multimillionaire profits - although the State also benefits in the form of taxes - and without taking into account the harmful social effects of these practices. In recent times, gambling houses flood our neighborhoods and openly seek out their customers between the working class and a youth with no expectations for the future. Online bets grew in just one year more than 50%. Therefore, for the BNG are precise strong decisions: close the betting houses and abolish online games. That is why we also find it disappointing that the Ministry of Consumer Affairs has acted and that the road has gone backwards from the Minister's first demonstrations to his last actions. In any case, we agree with the initiative because it goes in the right direction: to raise taxes from 20% to 30% and to ban - forbade! - any advertising of the game and the bets. It is the least that can and should be done. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-30-CD211130.u63	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Bel Accensi has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-30-CD211130.u64	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, in fact, different speakers have agreed on the diagnosis, and I think we will agree on a few more. We absolutely agree that the situation that occurs around people who suffer from ludopathy, who have an addiction to gambling, is dramatic, especially among young people, but not only among young people, but also among adults. Indeed, this must be considered a mental illness that requires the full attention of the public authorities in the different areas of their competence. However, the approach taken in this non-legislative proposal seems very short in its ambitions, and I believe that it is even wrong. I'll explain myself. Do you really think that a person with ludopathy is going to stop playing because the taxes on the game are increasing? No, I'm sure it won't happen, unfortunately it won't. Do you think that because they raise taxes to companies they will stop carrying out their business? Nor, because some of these taxes are going to transfer them via prices - simply by giving less prizes - which will imply that the affected will continue to play exactly the same and the companies may not get so much benefit but will not discourage the realization of the activity. Therefore, trying to move that the solution to the problem of gambling addiction goes through the way of taxes is a mistake. I do not rule out the fact that gambling can be taxed more, how certain activities that are not socially desirable are taxed more, but, if we really want to combat this scourge of our society, we need more important measures, both legislative measures in terms of the capacity to implement these activities and decided measures in the field of health, with an important stake in order to be able to help the people concerned. Therefore, this initiative, which I am sure is well-intentioned, will count on our abstention because it is absolutely insufficient from our point of view. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-30-CD211130.u65	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Rodríguez Almeida has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-30-CD211130.u66	Thank you very much, Mr President. I want to make two previews. The first is to send a strong hug to my partner, Mr. Manso Olivar, because his sister Isabel passed away yesterday. I want to wish you God welcome you - surely you will have done so with a person who has consecrated your life to you - and send him the support of your entire group. [[Applauds]] The second, also anecdotal and providential, is that today is my saint, today is the feast of Saint Andrew; I also have to congratulate a lawyer who accompanies us today. [[Rumors]] This observation comes very much to the case because the proponents of this initiative wanted to withdraw the Cross of San Andrés from the planes of the Air Force, but here there is someone who at least wants to express pride for that cross, which was also the beginning of the Cross of Burgundy that has always accompanied our army in so many victories. [[Applauds]] Mrs Rosique, I must begin my speech by announcing that in the VOX Parliamentary Group we share the concern about the problems that sometimes arise from gambling addiction. At the heart of VOX's political action are people and the family. The game generates addictions with devastating consequences for family stability and personal relationships. Addiction to gambling is breaking up relationships and leading personal, economic and violent conflicts within families and neighbourhoods. VOX is always on the side of unity against those who separate communities for economic interest. However, ladies and gentlemen of the Republican Parliamentary Group, your initiative does not propose measures to protect young people and the most vulnerable from gambling addictions. The first two requests of his initiative relate to the increase in the type of tax on gambling activities and the type applicable by the Autonomous Communities. I am drawn to the contradictory approach of this initiative: they have spoken of the abolition of the game and, at the same time, they want to profit from the taxes on that activity. If they were really interested in reducing gambling addictions and protecting the most vulnerable youth and other groups, their initiative would be focused on awareness-raising policies and not on raising the money from gambling collection that will reach the autonomous communities. The third request for his non-legislative proposal is another contradiction with the lines of action of Squerra Republicana. Every time they come up to this rostrum they talk about differential facts and catalanity, always based on manipulations of history, and an independent Catalonia that has never existed and will never exist. [[Applauds]] However, for some strange reason - perhaps not so strange for his Republican lordships, because it seems that he loses their money; the fur is the fur -, today they want to deny Ceuta and Melilla the status of special territories. This condition is based on objective and obvious differential facts, such as its small size, the fact that it is isolated from the rest of the national territory and, therefore, its extrapenisular character and its complex connectivity. With regard to the fourth and final request concerning the application of advertising restrictions to the game, there is already a recent regulation restricting such advertising. This is also reflected in the amendment tabled by the Socialist Group. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen of the Republican Parliamentary Group, we share with you the same concern about the social impact of the game on the most vulnerable, but we do not share your excessive ambition for money. If you want to reduce gambling addiction problems, filling your pockets to waste on independent embassies and chiringuites is not the solution. Do not count on the VOX Parliamentary Group to increase the resources that will be allocated to your dream of a Catalan republic that has never existed, that will never exist and that has only served the welfare of the independence leaders, while they have sown hatred among Spaniards and have led Catalonia to social and economic ruin. [[Applauds]] From the VOX Parliamentary Group we will always propose policies of national unity, of agreement between Spaniards, of persecution of criminals and of security, freedom and prosperity for all those who want to exercise their legitimate right to make use of themselves to prosper and bring forth their families and their country, which in Catalonia, as in the rest of the national territory, is no other than Spain. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-30-CD211130.u67	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Constenla Carbon has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-30-CD211130.u68	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. We are faced with an initiative presented by the Republican Parliamentary Group in which it addresses a very worrying issue for society, highlighting a real problem, such as the addiction to gambling in young people. We are facing a problem that is not so much fiscal as social. It is necessary to address the problems of the population who suffer from impulse control disorder without demonising the gambling sector, which, as you know, is a perfectly legal activity but which has implications of which we all have to be aware. The solution to the problem is not to increase the burden on the game, the solution is to take measures to make prevention compatible with the activity of the game. The People's Party has always been in favour of implementing as many measures as necessary to prevent and prevent addictive behaviours in general and more in this field, especially since adolescence, both in the traditional game and in the online game. The Republican Parliamentary Group brings us to this plenary an initiative that once again demonstrates the affection of its group. It presents us with a non-legislative proposal that urges the Government to raise the gambling tax, a tax that is state-wide, that imposes both gambling operations and random combinations for advertising or promotional purposes and that is assigned to autonomous communities. We are against it for two very clear reasons. On the one hand, raising taxes will not affect the decrease in addiction. You are always calling for the harmonization of taxes throughout the State - for example, you are calling for the harmonisation of inheritance taxes in the Madrid Community, to be equal throughout the State - but here you are calling for a greater maximum for each autonomous community to set it at its own will and at its own free will. On the other hand, Spain is not in its best position to increase fiscal pressure either in this or in any other economic sector. This is not the time to raise taxes. Ladies and gentlemen of Esquerra, let us focus on prevention, education and the fight against ludopathy, without demonizing a sector that generates thousands of jobs, pays its taxes and is public and private. They urge the Government to continue to work to prevent and prevent addictive behaviour, measures that should be promoted from the Government Delegation for the National Drug Plan within the framework of the National Addiction Strategy 20172024, a strategy promoted by the People's Party being in the Government and containing specific headings regarding gambling addiction. In addition, special regimes that have Ceuta and Melilla as special territories are called for to be eliminated. As you know, because of their characteristics, they enjoy certain exemptions under European law, such as, for example, enjoying certain advantages with lower taxation. This petition discriminates against these Spanish territories which, by their own characteristics, have to maintain their specificities. As for the treatment of gambling in commercial communications, we might agree to compare it to tobacco, as long as it applies equally to public and private gambling. The same harm is caused to society as to society, so the rules on advertising must be the same in terms of stopping an addiction, even if this is a substance-free addiction. Ladies and gentlemen, in addition to legislating, we must persuade, we must educate and we must inspect. They urge the Government to continue to draft a comprehensive plan to combat the risks of gambling, a plan agreed upon with a technical-scientific diagnosis, a plan that is born out of collaboration with the autonomous communities - which have competence in face-to-face gambling - within the Game Policy Council, which is where they are represented; a plan that takes account of the sector to make prevention compatible with its activity and to encourage its active involvement in achieving the objective in terms of public health in order to launch responsible gambling initiatives. The activity of the game must be developed with the utmost control to ensure the protection of the most vulnerable groups, such as minors, and to implement measures to combat illegal online gambling as a fundamental measure to prevent the play of minors. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-30-CD211130.u69	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Rosique i Saltor, do you accept your group's amendments?
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-30-CD211130.u70	No, none.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-30-CD211130.u71	Okay. Thank you. - the Basque Parliamentary Group, on the measures to be implemented for the improvement of the Santander-Bilbao railway line. [[EAJ-PNV]] [[File number 162/000852]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-30-CD211130.u72	We continue with the non-legislative proposal of the Basque Parliamentary Group, on the measures to be implemented for the improvement of the Santander-Bilbao railway line. [[EAJ-PNV]] For the presentation of the initiative and the amendment tabled, Mr Barandiaran Benito has the floor. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-30-CD211130.u73	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. President. [[Rumors]] A few days ago, last September 29th... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-30-CD211130.u74	One second, Mr. Barandiaran. Please, be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-30-CD211130.u75	I was saying, ladies and gentlemen, that a few days ago, on 29 September, we asked the Minister for Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda what measures she was going to take to improve the situation of the Bilbao-Santander railway line, which we call abandoned. He replied by saying that for the improvement of services and infrastructure he had 85 million for the period 2021-2025, although it seems to the users and institutions of the environment that promise does not serve anything if it is not concrete and certain measures are taken immediately, in particular those aimed at restoring the frequencies of the trains that have been lost with the COVID. The fact is that since then there has been an important novelty and this is nothing other than the assumption of an amendment to the General Budgets of the State for the year 2022 submitted by my group, the Basque Parliamentary Group, through a new additional provision, the one hundred and tenth eighth, according to which the State assumes the obligation that during the first quarter of 2022 a review of the level of the service established to increase it - that is, to increase the frequencies - according to the obligations of railway public service of medium distance and metric width will be carried out. Let us remember that the PSO, that is, the contract with the State according to which Renfe was already committed for a long time to providing a certain number of weekly services-this is, a public service obligation -, had to be made for that specific section on the following frequencies: twenty-one trains Santander-Bilbao; twenty-one trains Bilbao-Santander; five trains Karrantza-Bilbao; five trains Marron-Santander and others both Santander-Marron. However, today these frequencies have not been regularized and, as people in the area tell us, especially the Platform in Defense of the Santander-Bilbao Train, would be insufficient even if they are fully recovered. That is why the commitment that my group has managed to make to the General Budgets of the State and which obliges the Government to restore these frequencies first and then to be reviewed in order to increase with respect to the level of service set out in that contract between Renfe and the State is of particular importance. We start from the premise that this line is the main public medium so that its population can access all kinds of services and opportunities and is the condition for many of its population to choose to maintain or improve their possibilities for personal and collective development, that is, to a higher quality of life. Translated to the Christian: so that they can choose to continue living where they live today and not have the feeling that because of lack of means they are expelled from their territory. That is the main root of that phenomenon that we have called depopulation. This improvement should therefore be understood in the framework of making mobility a right, an element of social cohesion and economic growth as a principle inspired by the preliminary draft law on sustainable mobility and transport financing. For this reason, their non-compliance becomes the main cause of the removal of this population from an elementary principle of equal opportunities from the point of view of social, economic and human sustainability, and what happens is that today that principle has been broken, because on these journeys the service is not only bad, but regrettable. Thus, users are clear that they need the recovery of journey times before 2022, the disappearance of transfers, buses or taxis except in extraordinary cases, also that certain quality conditions are met in terms of punctuality, safety and accessibility, receiving information on incidents during the journey, opting to have the attention of the staff on the train and at the station or the ease of purchasing tickets, as well as other fundamental issues, such as the poor condition of the track or the trains or the lack of them and of staff who attends, drivers, station staff, controllers, etc., are also subject to criticism by the users. As denounced by the platform in defense of the Santander-Bilbao train, all these deficiencies violate the quality parameters required in the contract between that ministry and Renfe Viajeros, whose compliance is supposed to be guaranteed by the Government and the same ministry must monitor, as denounced by that association. As a result, the NLP intends to commit the Government to as many initiatives as necessary to provide this railway line with decent services and features that will enable users of the territory to access this service and to opportunities that are currently lacking due to the shortcomings of the service. Therefore, our non-law proposal urges the Government, first, to increase the number of frequencies and to improve traveltimes in order to reach within a short period the time reached in the contract between the operator and the infrastructure owner in 2002, which were 58 minutes in the Karrantza-Bilbao section, with ten intermediate stops, and 81 minutes in the Karrantza-Santander section, with thirteen intermediate stops, so that, second and foremost, it will indicate more ambitious objectives in terms of both frequencies and traveltimes, as my group has committed in the general budgets of the year 2022, that is to say, to concrete and detail the destination of these eighty-five million in investments to be made in that line in the preparation of stations and on the day and on the execution of their journey-information systems, passenger information systems, adaptation of the systems of issue and purchase of tickets, as well as the elimination or adaptation of steps at level; third, also, the adaptation of infrastructure and superstructure of infrastructure and of superstructures, for example, for example, the provision of passenger information systems, as well as the adaptation of ticket systems of issue and ticketing, as well as well as well as well as the execution and ticket and ticket and ticketing and ticketing and ticketing systems, as well as well as the elimination, and ticketing, and ticketing, and ticketing, and ticketing, and ticketing systems, and ticketing, as the elimination, as well as well as the elimination, as well as well as the elimination and ticketing, as the elimination systems, as the elimination systems, as the elimination, as the elimination, as the removal, as the elimination, as the elimination and ticketing, as the elimination, as the elimination, as the elimination and ticketing, as the elimination system, as the elimination system, as the elimination system, as the elimination system, as well as the elimination system, as the elimination system, as the removal, as the elimination system, as the elimination system, as the elimination system, as the elimination system, as well as well as the elimination system, as the elimination system, as well as well as the system, as well as well as the system, as the system, as the system, and ticketing, as the elimination system of payment system, as the system, as the system, as the system, as the system, as the system, as the system, as the system, as the To this end, we have received numerous contributions in the form of amendments from different groups. Some of them, of course, have made very suggestive and quite productive contributions to us. We have tried to reconcile, and we continue to do so, the views not only of one, but of all groups, and in that work we will try to obtain a compromise that we want to finally present to this House for approval. In any case, and in the interest of improving the situation of the existing population in that environment of the railway section between Santander and Bilbao by the Karrantza line, we will request the approval of this non-law proposal. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-30-CD211130.u76	Thank you very much, Mr Barandiaran. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the defence of the amendments put forward, Mr Mazón Ramos intervenes first of all by the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-30-CD211130.u77	Good afternoon. Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, this same month we had the opportunity to take a decision on a motion concerning railways in the autonomous community of Valencia. As I said in my speech, the problem that arises in this non-legislative proposal of the PNV is national. We in Cantabria know him very well, not only for the Cantabria itself, but for the neighbouring regions of Asturias and the Basque Country. And already on the PNL of the Basque Parliamentary Group, the first thing we want to say is that it is very well raised in the explanatory statement and in what its spokesman, Mr Barandiaran, has expressed in this rostrum because it describes a real situation very accurately, and we can only share it from Cantabria, since it has the dubious honour of being the community that has lost the most traffic in the vicinity in the last three decades of the entire Spanish railway system. I want to start with a minor thing, perhaps the last of this proposal, which is the lack of personnel, and related to it, the problem of security, and I am no longer talking about safety in traffic, but also about the lack of security of Renfe's own employees, because there is a fact that probably many of his lords do not even suspect, and that there are many users who do not pay; simply, they get on the train, they get caught, and the employees themselves are powerless to stop these caradures, for using a fine word, because in some cases it happens that they are even real criminals, and this also, as the proposal says, has something to do with the falsification of the statistics on the use of these trains. We want to be realistic - I said it also in the intervention at the beginning of the month -, we do not want empty trains, they must have a use that clearly justifies their social utility, but this is clear, because empty trains empty trains are much less sustainable than electric cars or electric buses. What is undeniable is that this lack of utility is given by the abandonment that there is and the bad offer that we currently have in this means of transport. The undeniable abandonment of recent years is related not only to the proximity, but also to the traffic of medium-distance goods. As far as I know, only the steelmakers that go from Avilés to Áriz must remain, and, despite the maneuvers they have to do in Santander, until the New Mountain Baipás is made, Solvay no longer even takes the soda by train to the port of Santander. The Secretary of State has already said in the Transport Committee that she knew and shared the problem, but now there is what we say is the cotton test, that is, we have to comply with the agreed, we have to comply with the budgeted, with the agreed in the budgets, and what is programmed in multiple plans that are being developed or at least approving in recent years. Let us see if the second point is really fulfilled, in which you say that the EUR 80 million should be implemented, because there too we are going to see the inadequacy of this amount. At the moment, it will be insufficient, but we are satisfied that this is being done. Mr Barandiaran, with all the rest of the things we are practically in agreement. We would include many more things for Cantabria, logically, but we are satisfied if the whole is fulfilled. However, we did want to make an amendment, which is fundamental not only for Cantabria, but for the north and the fight against climate change, and it is in reference to alleviating the traffic that has the A-8 highway between Cantabria, especially the eastern part, and the Basque Country, mainly on weekends and during the summer, when it is absolutely collapsed, with endless queues, mostly of inhabitants of the Basque Country who have second residences in Cantabria or, simply, they go there to enjoy the environment and nature. This means a cost, it means CO2 emissions to the atmosphere that must be reduced at all costs, and the practically accepted formula is to replace cars and trucks by trains. An informative study is currently being drafted for a competitive train between Bilbao and Santander that has stops in Castro Urdiales and Laredo and that would also be the first step for the future axis of the Cantabrian, since it will have to do the same thing that is being done on the axis of the Mediterranean or on the axis of the Ebro, which, fortunately for them, have recently had a great boom, in contrast to the decline that has been suffered by the cantabrian cornice in recent decades. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-30-CD211130.u78	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Matute García de Jalón has the floor for the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-30-CD211130.u79	Thank you very much, Mr President. We have tabled an amendment with the will to compromise, which we will see whether it is possible or not, but in any case I want to start with two observations, and the first is to recognise the work of the citizens who constitute the Santander-Bilbao train platform, because without them - and without merit of what the proposing group has been today - it would have been difficult, without their push for years, to have reached the echo and the dimension so that it would be discussed from this rostrum and in this Chamber in a plenary session; I believe that is the recognition that we owe them. And the second point that needs to be made is that all the amendments that I have seen, all those that go into detail with some kind of argument in relation to the explanatory statement point to something that the platform itself says, and that this situation has deteriorated since 2002, that is, that in 2002 the situation of this railway section was much better than it is today, so, if we all agree on that, I guess there will be no notice of recognizing, because it is pure hemerotec, that in those years that have elapsed there have been governments of the People's Party with Aznar, of the Socialist Party with Rodríguez Zapatero, of the People's Party with Mariano Rajoy and of the Socialist Party with Pedro Sánchez who seem to have not done their duties. This is an opportunity for us to start doing our duties, and, as I said, we have come to this debate not with our own position, but with the position that has moved us from the platform of those affected by the bad state of the Santander-Bilbao train. But I think we need to say more, I think that, in addition to pointing out who was responsible for the government, we need to point out what the bets of these governments have been for two decades so that this is as it is. I believe that there has been a high-speed bet, to the detriment of the nearby trains, and this is a clear example, but others or others could come to point out, for example, something that has already been said on more than one occasion regarding the shortcomings, almost third worldists, if it serves the expression, that live on a journey in Extremadura with a train that forces its passengers to spend hours in a camp. And that is an obvious symptom that all the money there has been, which has been little, has been earmarked for high speed, forgetting the internal mesh, the one that connects citizens with their most immediate and peremptory needs. All studies determine that 95% of displacements, at least in the Basque Autonomous Community, are internal. They are not long journeys, but within the province or the autonomous community, and yet what has been done has been investing billions in the high-speed train. That is why we say - and in this we also agree with the platform of the Santander-Bilbao train - that the only clipping, the only obstacle that can make us not add to a non-law proposal that raises all the improvements that have been mentioned in the original initiative is to include the high-speed train. But that's what the platform says and that's what the Basque Nationalist Party understood at the General Councils of Vizcaya, together with the Socialist Party of Euskadi and EuskalHerria Bildu, when they twice signed two initiatives leaving that issue aside to focus on the really important thing, which was the improvement of the infrastructures for this reality that affects thousands of people, because, in short, we are also talking about another logic, which has persecuted this state for a long time, which was to make a country - this country of countries did not enter the head of many - with a state capital, which was Madrid, from where the connections for the rest of the territories radiated, again forgetting all the interconnecting meshes. Therefore, we are talking about allowing life there, in Carranza, Arcentales, Sopuerta, Balmasseda, Zalla, in all the places that in one way or another use this railway infrastructure, and it is also, as I said, to attend to them major displacements. Let us forget to be the champions of the world in built-up high-speed kilometers. We are the second or third, according to the International Railway Union and according to the year to be looked at, behind China and in some cases ahead of Japan and in others behind, but also those who use it least. Think if all the billions have served everything that was proposed. In short, it is about betting on the train, but on connectivity from nearby. It is about improving all the issues that have been mentioned: trains, frequencies, accessibility, staff. Your Honor, I have often been tempted to go up to this rostrum and throw loas at the party of Revilla, not because I like everything they do, but because that's how I was going to have the opportunity to see their president in El anmiguero or in The Sixth Night saying what I wanted, but to say today that people don't pay bills because they're caradures it's as much as forgetting that there's no staff. People are much older and, as they do not know how to use these infrastructures and the train timetables are at all times less punctual, that makes that circumstance happen. I find it very reckless, not to say to say to some extent it is reckless, to accuse the whole world of carasure, when they encounter archaic, old-fashioned infrastructures and I would say that almost the last century. Finally, it was said, and it is true, that this would help to get vehicles off the road, because, in the end, we are all very concerned about climate change. The trains could be electrified, passing from diesel to electric, and, of course, we would also avoid a danger that we always put of relevance, which is that of the steps at the level. Therefore, what we would ask the proponents is that they take all these initiatives into account, that we stick to what the platform says and that we can reach an agreement, because the citizens affected by this reality deserve it and that this is not always a trip anywhere.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-30-CD211130.u80	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Sabanes Nadal has the floor for the Plural Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-30-CD211130.u81	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, if you will allow me, I would like to start with a memory for Almudena Grandes, a great Madrid writer, recently deceased. [[Applauds]] A week ago we debated in this plenary session, following the general state budgets, on transport infrastructure, and it seems to me that it is essential that we remember over and over again that only the conventional train network and proximity is capable of guaranteeing territorial cohesion and the right to mobility. In addition, it is the most efficient medium in terms of capacity, coverage and sustainability, which in the midst of a climate emergency is very relevant. And that's why today's initiative is very important, because it is in the background and with respect to a struggle maintained and sustained by a platform that has perfectly identified the problems of the Bilbao-Santander train. We said it last week and I repeat it now: There is no way for citizens to leave the car if we do not have the capacity to offer them an attractive, sustainable and competitive train and proximity service. For more than a year this line has had only one frequency per day, and even when frequencies have been recovered, they have been insufficient. There are also unelectrified sections, obsolete speed limitations, safety problems, shortage of drivers, staff, technologies in the stations. It is therefore impossible that this will happen, that the capacity of trains will be occupied and that it will be attractive and useful for citizens. The result is a line that operates late when it operates, because on more than one occasion the train does not appear and there is not even an announcement at the station to say that it will not appear, so citizens have to turn around or look for life. The consequences are multiple for all the municipalities and regions that cross the line, who see how it is increasingly difficult to move. In short, with the current frequencies and these trains, if a person needs to go to study or work in another area, he will end up moving by car or moving to live in Santander, Bilbao or other destinations, and this, ladies and gentlemen, is also a way of emptying Spain. We should think about why we have come to this situation and how we have come to it, because only by clearly analyzing the causes can we see the solutions. And there are three issues: the systematic high-speed bet, the also systematic radial structure of our modes of transport and the large roads and airports connected with all that structure have diverted attention to what was going to give cohesion and capacity to our territory, the only thing, which is the conventional train and the vicinity. It is not normal - and I am a Member of Parliament for Madrid - that we have managed to get the journey between Madrid and Barcelona, seven hundred kilometers away, to be done in three hours, and, instead, between Bilbao and Santander, a distance of one hundred kilometers, to be done also in three hours. This makes it impossible for the train to be viable and sustainable. Please note that there are sections where the train is 10 kilometres per hour. We have tabled a compromise amendment which, as Mr Matute said, has much to do - and as you have seen it denounced by the Basque Nationalist Party - with what is being defended by the platform in defense of the train to recover the travel times of 2002, the technology, the notices for breakdowns, the improvement of the number of staff, the stations, the timetables and the needs of the population. In short, ladies and gentlemen, what is needed is investment in technology and personnel, trains that arrive on time, and not commitments that are never achieved. It is very important for us in this debate for once that we really talk about the train and the regional transport network. Let us not put forward again at high speed, because, in the end, what will remain behind will be the conventional train and the vicinity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-30-CD211130.u82	Thank you. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mrs. Castillo López has the floor. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-30-CD211130.u83	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. If there is a railway infrastructure in which it seems that time has stopped is on the mid-distance line Santander-Bilbao, and, by the way, also on the Santander-Oviedo. These railway infrastructures show the territorial inequalities, the lack of investment and the lack of cohesion; in short, the territorial isolation and the increase in depopulation, which miss the opportunities for the future in emptied Spain, a Spain which you, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, are contributing to emptying up the wasteland. [[applause]] And you dare today, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party and ladies and gentlemen of Podemos, to table an amendment urging yourself not to know what. To continue theatricalizing, the same thing they've been doing in recent years, ladies and gentlemen? Cantabres need and demand a rail service of proximity and of modern, safe and quality half-distance for both users and workers. It has been requested by the Platform in Defense of the Santander-Bilbao Train, the Railway Table and the eleven Basque and Cantabrian Town Halls, which have suffered delays, reduced hours, roadways to which the train does not arrive, and, if they are lucky, a taxi arrives to look. It has been claimed by the People's Party, because this line does not offer a competitive direct service between Santander and Bilbao. We want frequencies to be increased, people with reduced mobility to be protected, users to be properly informed, fleet, technology and personnel to be improved, and punctuality to be ensured. Mr Matute, if any minister is to be valued over these years, it will be necessary to refer to Mrs Pastor, who included him in the Pitvi 2012-2024 and to Minister Íñigo de la Serna, the minister cantabro, who drafted a close-up plan for Cantabria, for the amount of 530 million euros to be developed between 2017 and 2022, with an investment in metric width of 122.65 million euros. [[applause]] That plan included much of the actions that the Basque Nationalist Party is demanding today. But that plan that Mr.Iñigo de la Serna presented in 2017 - right, Mr.Mazon, that you were sitting there, where Mr.Iñigo de la Serna presented it?-, a few months later, when the Socialist Party enters - and enters through the back door, as usual, with a motion of censure - Mr.Abalos graves it, precisely on July 14, 2018, when he says that our 530 million euro plan for Cantabria, for the nearness and the half distance, depends on the drafting of a future national plan. [[shows a press clipping with a photograph]] [[shows a press clipping with a photograph]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, you are responsible for the territorial isolation that Cantabria suffers. And ladies and gentlemen of the regionalist party, you are accomplices, guarantors of the outrage that is being committed with our region. One cannot give a blank cheque, a cheque whose only reward is five amendments that have been approved in these budgets for the year 2022. Mrs Barandiaran, from the People's Party we thank you very much for demanding for Cantabria what your president, Mr Revilla, does not do, which you should claim with force and strength. We are tired of living with goals, and what we want are achievements, and we are sure that you can probably negotiate much better this urgent need for Cantabria. We don't know if you're doing it out of sympathy with our region, because of the amount of Basques we have living in Cantabria, in the surrounding area, who do tourism for our region, or if you're visionaries, as you wanted with the Rioja Alavesa mini denomination of wine, but what is clear is that you are able to see the economic, environmental and cultural benefits that the modernization of the network of metric width will bring to Santander and Bilbao. Whatever the motivation, welcome be, ladies and gentlemen of the Basque Nationalist Party: the People's Party supports everything that is good for cantabria and Basque society, and therefore everything that is good for Cantabria. But this is not about choosing between mom and dad, it is not about modernizing the metric width network or a new line of high performance Santander-Bilbao. We want both because we deserve both things and because the only way the train is competitive and an alternative in front of the car or any other means of transport is with a new line, in addition to the modernization of the line we are demanding today. Therefore, the People's Party will continue to claim what is right for Cantabria, the modernization of this network of metric width and the demands of the citizens of Cantabria, and will continue to claim a high-performance train, a connection with the Basque Y, with the Atlantic Corridor through the Basque Country.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-30-CD211130.u84	Your Honor, you must finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-30-CD211130.u85	And we will also continue to claim connections with Asturias according to what the Asturians deserve, already advance it. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-30-CD211130.u86	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Ramos Esteban has the floor for the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-30-CD211130.u87	Thank you, President. The People's Party is always better in the opposition than in the Government, because when they are in the opposition they tell us everything they were going to do and everything they never did, even ruling relatively recently. That is why I recognise that, if I can vote in the next elections, I will do so so that the People's Party will remain in the opposition for many years, because I believe that is what is best for this country. [[Applauds]] And the facts prove it. Here we were talking about conventional train and what the People's Party has done, and, yes, it is true, the People's Party did something about the conventional train: if we look at the figures, what it invests every year was less than 280 million euros. Compared to what the Socialist Party has done when it ruled, every year it has been 622 million euros, twice as much. So, I wonder how good the management of the People's Party was if it did much less than this government in just two years, what was the defense that Íñigo de la Serna de Cantabria was doing, when it did not buy a single train of metric width that could circulate along those tracks, so necessary, and when this government has bought more than 31 trains - I insist, that Íñigo de la Serna did not buy - for 258 million euros. These are the policies we make and we want to make socialists, these are the policies we think they think of the citizens. And I think that a very interesting reflection has been made here today, in reference to whether we want a radial Spain, which is the one that is planned, in which we are all looking for high speed with Madrid, or if we want a networked Spain, a Spain that guarantees that all citizens can move to those places where they normally go. If we look at the figures about what the citizens of Vizcaya are doing, 35% are moving to Cantabria, so we think it is very reasonable that this initiative should ask for the connection that allows its citizens to move. I think it's an interesting reflection. Do we want radial Spain? Who benefits from radial Spain? Does it benefit unpopulated territories? Does it benefit the territories that have less development? Or are you benefiting and unbalanced Spain with first-class citizens and second-class citizens? If you analyze the data and reflect on what is happening - this initiative serves that - you will see that what we are getting is to make Madrid richer and, with it, make the rest of the territories poorer. This initiative has to be used to reflect on how we have to plan infrastructure and how we have to change it. I think it is essential, and someone from Extremadura says that he expects and wishes - I have said it a thousand times - to get high speed as soon as possible. I do, but do you know what the extremists, above all, want? Have a decent train. Do you know what the citizens of the Basque Country want? Have a decent train that can communicate with Cantabria in a reasonable time. Do you know what most citizens in this country want? To have the same opportunities and that mobility is equivalent to that of other territories. And I honestly think we're not getting it. Today the investment that is made at high speed in our country has been put here on the table, of which we are all very proud - I am very proud - but I think that for many years the investment in conventional train has been left aside, and we have to change that logic a little bit. The conventional train and the proximity guarantee citizens go every day to work in the best conditions. It is the most used means of transport by all citizens, by the majority of working citizens of this country, and was abandoned for a long time, during the period of government of the People's Party. For the first time in many years - we are proud to say this - this government has managed, with the budgets that were approved the other day here, that the departure for the conventional train is much higher than the departure for high speed. Something is changing, and I believe it is the responsibility of all of us in this House. In all the interventions, at least those we have heard so far, there has been an interesting reflection on how we need to plan infrastructure. We have a challenge ahead, and for the Socialists it is a priority: the law on mobility and financing of urban public transport. We will have to sit down and discuss and try to agree on which transport services we need to guarantee and how to guarantee them. Citizens want competitive travel times, competitive public transport travel costs and, as I have said a thousand times in this House and I will continue to say, the same opportunities. We need to reflect on the model that we have been creating among all; and I say among all, because I also include my party. We do not deny that we have ruled for many years and that sometimes our approach has not been the most appropriate one. We have no problem saying that. We need to analyze what we've done and see how we can improve it. With this initiative we will try to reach an agreement - in that we are - with friends and comrades of the Basque Nationalist Party. There are things we do not agree on, but I think we are going to agree on something very simple, to focus on policies that improve the lives of citizens, of the vast majority of citizens. The high speed is very good, it serves us to say that we are the record country in kilometers of high speed, but we have to wonder if each of the citizens of our territory feels the same treatise, has the same conditions and the same opportunities. Thanks to all those who have focused today on this paradigm shift in mobility. Obviously, I believe that the People's Party has failed to take advantage of a debate, which was not to draw attention to or to make partisanship, as we are so used to, but rather to start thinking here whether those we have ruled, also the People's Party, have done things right or wrong. I'll finish with a thought. He says the PSOE entered through the back door. The PSOE entered the government by winning five elections. The one who came out the back door was the People's Party after cases of corruption that could not be allowed in this country. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-30-CD211130.u88	Your Honor, you must finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-30-CD211130.u89	I'm on my way. So, lessons, none. Mr. Mario Garcés, I see you're rehearsing the mime for the next movie. I wish you the best. Thank you very much. We hope to be able to continue discussing these issues which I believe are of interest to citizens. Nothing more and thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-30-CD211130.u90	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr López-Bas Valero has the floor on behalf of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-30-CD211130.u91	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Let me first express to you a doubt that arises with this GNP, that we will go ahead and support it. We will vote yes, even to the compromise announced by virtually all the groups in the parliamentary arc, if indeed it exists, because we are not aware of it. In any case, I think I listened to Mr Barandiaran when he said that thanks to them this is in the budgets, which have managed to bring him to the budgets. If they have brought it into the budgets, we do not understand what the GNP still does alive and debating. And if in the end it is not in the budgets, what I do not understand is why the Basque Nationalist Group voted yes to the budgets when it is an important issue that comes from so far back and for so many years. And a second doubt. Why are all groups committed to an insurmountable dichotomy between high speed and proximity and mid distance? The radial system of the railway is designed for high speed and join Madrid with the peripheral cities - with Barcelona, with A Coruña, with Badajoz, when it arrives, with Seville or with Valencia - and the proximity and the middle distance are designed for another type of railway user who needs another type of train, because we do not want that from Barcelona, Valencia or Badajoz - when there is one - we are taking one proximity behind another in order to reach Madrid. We do not understand why high-speed is incompatible with another rail system, because, after all, it is a matter of design and budget, and, as has been said, there are many governments that are awaiting that activity. As I said, go ahead with our support for this proposal, which also raises a request from the Platform in Defense of the Santander-Bilbao Train, a train that this year has reached 125 years and whose shortcomings are not new, but urgent to resolve. All these reforms and all these updates and adaptations have been pending for many years. It is an absolutely necessary railway network between two very important autonomous communities, such as that of the Basque Country and that of Cantabria, and not only because it unites its capitals, Santander and Bilbao, but also because it serves to vertebrate a territory where, precisely, a depopulation is taking place due to the lack of an accessible and agile rail communication system. We have already said on many occasions that we support both high speed, when it comes to talking about high speed and is designed in an effective and coherent way, such as conventional mid-distance or proximity lines. The big difference with other parties is that we defend that Santander-Bilbao line in the same way that we defend, demand and claim, as we have done from this rostrum, those same infrastructures in the Valencian Community, in Murcia, in Cuenca, in Seville, in Castile and León, and, of course, again, in Extremadura. Some party, in this nationalist case, manifests territorial grievances, but it would be necessary to ask, for example, the extremists how they feel when they are still promised an AVE without giving them dates or telling them what kind of high-speed they are going to get to their capitals. I therefore believe that the first thing we should take into account is whether this GNP seeks to remind everyone here to remind the Government to implement this measure, whether it really is in the State's General Budgets to carry it out. Or is there someone who has managed to get it into the budget, who has voted yes to the budget and it turns out - possibly the Basque Nationalist Party - that needs moral support, I don't know if from the other groups in the House, to request the execution of this investment? We're going to support her and we're going to support the transactions. In any case, as we have repeated, rail is a necessary means, an accessible means. I simply want to tell the Basque Nationalist Party that, rather than reminding the Socialist Party to comply with its commitments, if it has really managed to get it in the budgets, remember that you end up understanding Sánchez, whitening Bildu and, in the end, you two are already thinking about how to get you out of Ajuria Enea. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-30-CD211130.u92	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Granollers Cunillera has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-30-CD211130.u93	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, deputies and deputies. We can declare that we are in a climate emergency. The international scientific community has been saying for years that either we drastically reduce the environmental impact that our activities generate or the thing is going to go very badly. Sustainable and decarbonized mobility is one of the major challenges we need to address, a sustainable mobility model that is accessible to all and involves real change in the face of the climate emergency. In other words, we need mobility with low environmental impact and high social and territorial cohesion. To this end, profound transformations must be promoted in the model of infrastructure and transport in all the territories, but especially in the most punished. I would like to mention the large number of times we have dealt here in this House with the issue of the rail transport deficit. We have dealt with it in Congress, in the Senate, in committees, in GNP, in motions, in oral questions and in written questions, because we not only want to improve service, but we want to do so, I say. The train must play a key role and rail connection must be guaranteed to all the territories of the State, but to guarantee you, a dignified service is necessary. Now in much of the territory we have a rail transport more typical of the 19th century than of the 21st century, and this fact is doubly serious and harmful, because, on the one hand, it contributes seriously to the destabilization of the territory and its regions and, on the other, it has moved much of the volume of displacement to the road, which does not help at all in the fight against climate change. We must ensure that the train vertebrates, above all, the territories at risk of depopulation. It is not tolerable that, as long as millions and millions of euros are invested in AVE lines, the proximity remains unattended. To give an example, in the area where I live and, more specifically, in Bellpuig, in 2019 l'Associació of municipalities affected by the R12 railway line was promoted. All the municipalities adhered to this manifesto. From Lleida to Manresa, a total of sixteen municipalities make up the platform, why it is a line totally abandoned by the Administration, where it takes more than three hours to make a journey of just over an hour by car. There is not enough time in this intervention to make an extensive listing of all needs, but we do ask the ministry to account for all platforms of citizens or promoted by municipalities in defense of the train and all requests for improvement of these railway lines. So, perhaps, they realize that every day dozens of journeys are cancelled and that there are journeys that take longer now than a hundred years. The train, the vicinity, is not only an environmental bet, it is an economic, social and repopulation bet, a need for the popular classes and the most deprived areas. We must promote public transport as a cornerstone of policies and the right to mobility. We must ensure infrastructure and a 100 per cent and quality public service and safeguard the rights of the working and working classes. In our group we are convinced that developing effective responses to transport and effective and sustainable mobility will give the planet an opportunity, also contributing to the demographic challenge in the most punished areas. For this reason and on the basis of the principle of subsidiarity, each territory must decide which infrastructure is most necessary. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-30-CD211130.u94	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr López de Uralde Garmendia has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podem-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-30-CD211130.u95	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would first like to apologize to my colleague Roberto Uriarte, who had to defend our position and who, for health reasons, cannot be here today. We hope you'll recover soon and be with us again. The Basque Nationalist Party brings to the debate in plenary a PNL on the measures to be implemented to improve the Santander-Bilbao railway line, a demand widely demanded by the population and singularly realized by the Platform in Defense of the Santander-Bilbao Train. Ladies and gentlemen, the deterioration of medium- and long-distance rail services, of which this case is just one more example, is a consequence of the infrastructure policies followed in recent decades by the governments of the People's Party and the Socialist Party. High rail speed is, by contrast, the transport infrastructure in which the most public funds have been invested in recent years in Spain. In the first twenty-five years of AVE they invested, according to ADIF, nothing less than 51 175 million euros, which would mean an average of more than 1100 euros per Spanish. This figure refers only to the amount of the infrastructure involved, not including, therefore, Renfe's investment in the purchase of a hundred AVE trains with which it relies to operate it. Then there is the tremendous disparity in the allocation of budgets, compared to other railway lines. There have been years when the AVE has taken one hundred and fifty times more funds than the nearby ones, despite the fact that every day they travel thirty times more passengers in the vicinity than in the AVE, and that without counting the conventional railway lines abandoned and closed, despite the social claim that they will re-start. Virtually the entire budget for 2022 for the Basque Country is allocated to the high-speed train. It is doubtful that the TAV will guarantee the right to mobility, because it will break territorial cohesion by losing connections and stops with the heads of the region and with hundreds of villages. It is a model that is tremendously expensive and whose environmental impact is not justified. Therefore, instead of creating new lines, it is essential to ensure the services of existing lines that users demand, such as this one we are dealing with. It is essential to take these considerations into account to understand the agonizing situation that many train lines are experiencing, because it is a matter of opportunity costs. That is, everything that has been invested in high speed has been removed from the conventional train and the nearby train, and thus we are as we are. In this case, there are many arguments in favour of this initiative. According to data from the Active Population Survey, in 2019 the daily flow of workers from Cantabria to Vizcaya was one of the most intense in Spain, being the seventh in interprovincial volume and the second in which there is a change of autonomous community. In total, there were about 10,000 inhabitants of Cantabria who had their job in Vizcaya, 5.5% of all workers in the region. The main means of public transport currently used to make the journey Bilbao-Santander or Santander-Bilbao is the bus. The use of the Bilbao-Santander railway line has been falling apart since before the pandemic for various reasons, but mainly for the duration of the journey, the low frequencies and the poor service. But I insist that this terrible service and this lack of infrastructure have its origin in which the funds are mainly being allocated to the high-speed train. It must be taken into consideration to think about what we want in the future, because unfortunately, as some have said, there is no room for everything. On the other hand, it is true that in September Renfe restores pre-containment frequencies, i.e. three daily services in both directions, but users still consider this frequency insufficient. On the other hand, we find a line that still, as in other parts of Spain, lacks electrification in some sections, which also prevents the use of modern trains. With regard to the length of the journey, it has been extended in recent decades: it takes three hours to travel the 119 kilometers, making thirty-one intermediate stops. If we compare the time of the train journey with the private vehicle and the bus through the motorway, the different studies that have been carried out conclude that the railway line does not offer a competitive direct service between Santander and Bilbao, because it is more than double the time of travel with respect to road travel. This is the situation we are experiencing right now. So, if we really want to go to a much more sustainable model we have to reverse it in the case of this Santander-Bilbao line and we have to reverse, in general, the concept of transport and the railway model. For our part, we will be attentive to the compromise amendment, because, of course, our will is to support this non-legislative proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-30-CD211130.u96	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Del Valle Rodríguez has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-30-CD211130.u97	With the coming of the presidency. Ladies and gentlemen, let me begin by saying that my group is going to vote in favour of the GNP proposed by the Basque Group, given that virtually all groups agree that the Santander-Bilbao railway line is a disastrous line and that it has been abandoned for years, in which not only infrastructure is abandoned; in fact, works that had to be carried out long ago are being remedied by setting speed limits. It's even dangerous. There are videos on social media of how a train is passing - as it goes at 10 an hour, you see - by steps at a level whose barriers are raised. There are also daily occurrences, insurmountable delays, lack of personnel, drivers who take longer hours than they are and, if they get off, the train stands still, because there is no driver to take over. You have to take into account something that has not been said, and I'm going to explain it to anyone who doesn't know. Everyone thinks that as we talk about the Santander-Bilbao train goes along the coast, which is a beach train, with people who go with the towel and umbrella, which takes three hours because the landscape is very nice. No, this train is from the interior: it departs from Santander towards the mountain, it arrives in Brown, everything in rural area, from there it passes to the Encartaciones, in Vizcaya, and from there it goes down to Bilbao; in fact, it leaves Castro Urdiales and Laredo out. That is why the representative of the Regionalist Party of Cantabria, to which I will then refer in relation to what he has expressed, insists that we must connect by train Castro Urdiales and Laredo. This is an interior train, a rural train, a train that older people use to go to the doctor because the roads are bad and older people on those roads no longer drive; they use it to go to the doctor. Young people should use it to go to study, but instead they have to rent flats in the capitals, both in Santander and Bilbao, because they do not risk one day being forty minutes late, another day not leaving or another day, as has happened, turning the train for an incident. Therefore, they can neither work nor study and have to end up living in cities. We talk a lot about depopulation and emptied Spain - I will not go in if it is the fault of the PP or the PSOE, as they have done, facing - but this is causing emptied Spain, another example of the lack of policies at the national level. But it must also be borne in mind that nothing has been called for during these 20 years of abandonment at regional level either. Mr. Revilla has been ruling for twenty-two of the past twenty-six years and in those twenty-two years he has set himself unattainable goals to become the victim and say: it is that I claim in Madrid and do not listen to me. One of its objectives was that of the AVE in Madrid, insisting, by the way, from the beginning - and I think very well - that it be for Reinosa. Twelve years ago he was proposed to abandon that idea and to do so through Bilbao, to which he replied that he would never, as president, consent that a cantabre to go to Madrid had to pass through Basque territory. But now, after a trip to Brussels, he has been delighted to propose the AVE to Bilbao. In all these years, he has only done two things on this train, which is fundamental, as he said before. One is to go up with Mr. Mazón and the press on the Madrid-Bilbao route during the 2019 election campaign and record a video to say you have to do something - then they have done nothing, no initiative - and another is to meet recently with the platform we all know - so I've heard, everyone has been with the affected platform - and tell them that, in fact, he was going to do everything possible to fix that train, but he hasn't done anything. In fact, the initiative has been brought by the Basque Nationalist Party, not the Regional Socialist Party of Cantabria. It's over. From here I want to tell Mr. Revilla to speak less and do more for Cantabria and for the depopulation of the rural world in Cantabria. As I said at the beginning, we will vote in favour, because in VOX we are with the rural world and in favour of giving solutions to emptied Spain. Nothing more and thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause by the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, on the ground]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-30-CD211130.u98	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Barandiaran Benito, do you accept your group's amendments?
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-30-CD211130.u99	We're in negotiations for a transaction. I hope that we will be able to present it shortly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-30-CD211130.u100	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-30-CD211130.u101	We then proceed to discuss the motion for urgent questioning by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Botran Pahissa, on infrastructure, increased emissions and the fight against global warming in the Catalan countries. For the author group of the initiative and for the defence of the motion, Mr Botran Pahissa has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-30-CD211130.u102	Thank you, President. There are two elements of our more immediate future that should worry us much more. The first is climate change, the mitigation of which is far from being achieved by the actions being taken by Governments. For example, the climate change law itself adopted by this House is far from the necessary targets, as a 23% reduction in emissions by 2030 is far below what is needed. Some fifteen days ago the Catalonian Parliament, with the votes of all the groups and the abstention of the People's Group, approved that this reduction in emissions should be 55% before 2030. This is, therefore, the first of the elements that we should be much more concerned about than we are concerned about. The second element is the end of abundant and cheap oil. What has marked practically an era in humanity is coming to an end and is already noted in a fact, for example, with the supply crisis, for which explanations are sought that are true, but secondary, such as the fact that they are recovering from the pandemic interruption or the lack of truckers. All that influences, but it's secondary. What really influences much more is the shortage of diesel. Since 2019, diesel production is falling and we are now at 15% of what was its production in peak times; the diesel that is the blood of the current system, as Antonio Turiel says. To give an example, maritime transport is being increased, in some cases, up to ten times as much as it cost last year. On the one hand, there is climate change, and on the other, there is the energy crisis. However, the government's infrastructure policy - and many more governments - is totally continuous with previous times, in which these threats were not met and the luxury of passing the problem later was allowed because it was not seen as an urgency either global warming or peak oil. Airports for more travellers continue to be planned, ports for more containers continue to be planned, motorways for more cars continue to be planned. The I give concrete examples that we mentioned at the time of the inquiry: an extension of Barcelona airport is planned to increase from 53 million to 70 million passengers; an increase in the capacity of Palma airport, on the island of Mallorca, from 29,800,000 to 33,800,000 people - in this case even with an AENA report that involves a 15% increase in emissions - and in the case of the port of Valencia the increase that is expected to double - this also with the report in hand - the transit of trucks from 6000 to 12,000 trucks per day. It is a nonsense not to incorporate the climate and energy crisis into public works planning. It is a nonsense to be investing billions in projects that go in the opposite direction to that of the ecological transition, since investments are necessary, for example, for the expansion of the railway - we have just seen it in the previous point - for public bus networks, for the expansion of agroecology and other economic sectors that must increase in order to gain economic sovereignty, since the crisis of the global distribution chains will go up, and that will also reduce the burden of tourism that will consequently also enter into crisis. It is not an ideological issue or an option, the ecological transition is imposed. The only question is which political and social sectors lead it and, therefore, who are the winners and who are the losers of this ecological transition. Today we are talking about expanding ports and airports because of the pressure of employers or large companies. Let us look at who organizes the major events in favor of the expansion of the airport of Barcelona or even that the expansion of the port of Valencia is prosecuted for favoring the interests of an entrepreneur. Continuing to prioritise the criteria of the economically dominant classes leads us to an ecological transition that will be late and bad, as jobs for ecology will be sacrificed and, however, large companies will continue to accumulate profits. The current course leads us to a conflict between ecology and work, and that is the grass of the ideological postulates of the far right. We therefore call on the Ministry to halt these investments and direct them to investments that are necessary for the ecological transition. The motion - that's right - begins by defending that the sovereignty to manage these infrastructures and investments corresponds to the governments of Catalonia, Valencia and Les Illes Balears. With that, I raise the last question: the Catalan countries are the framework of the motion. For us it is a natural space, and for that reason this motion we have worked side by side with entities, to which we thank their persistent work, such as the Commission Ciutat-Port or the Platform against the amplification of the airport of Palma, in addition to the entities involved and mobilized against the airport of Barcelona or the quarter belt. I anticipate possible replies from the groups to the statement of this motion, as they may want to focus on that and not on the substance of the motion. I only do this with one question: if there really are no Catalan countries, if they really are as fictitious and imaginary as you insist on saying, why do you need to repeat it so often? Why do they even propose banning their terminology, as was done a few days ago in the Senate? Isn't it a huge contradiction to say that one thing doesn't exist and yet always have it in your mouth? So, at the very least, in the nightmares of its most haunted detractors the Catalan countries are a reality, and as far as we are concerned, they need a development model consistent with mitigation...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-30-CD211130.u103	Your Honor, you must finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-30-CD211130.u104	...of climate change, and the ecological transition. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-30-CD211130.u105	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] In defence of the amendment made by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, I have the floor, Mr Mena Arca.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-30-CD211130.u106	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, everyone and everyone. Look, this is a miniature car that we were given on the visit last week by the Industry Commission to the Seat plant in Martorell. There we had the opportunity to talk to the president of the company, that we were presented with the project of electrification of the car, to know first hand the medical team and engineers who projected the seven hundred breathers that were made available to several hospitals in Spain During the periods and the hardest months of the pandemic. We also met with the company committee, with Matías, of the UGT, and with Rafa, of the Workers' Commissions, who gave us a sound reflection on the necessary repeal of the labor reform and the need to accompany the ecological transition with the labor transition to bet on decent jobs also in our companies. That is precisely what the CUP is proposing today. It cannot be that as long as company committees and leading companies in this country have a clear horizon of transformation, that of the fight against climate change and that of the ecological transition, in the different governments, in all, one still thinks of infrastructures such as the extension of El Prat, in Barcelona, of Son Sant Joan, in Palma, or of ports, such as that of Valencia, that do not respond to the mobility needs of the majority. [[The lady]] I'm going to give you two examples I know firsthand. One is the expansion of El Prat, which endangers an area of high ecological value, La Ricardo, and threatens to make the tourist model of Barcelona and Catalonia unsustainable. The other is the B-40 motorway, which passes through Sabadell. I am from Sabadell, district 7, with a privileged environment that we call El Rodal de Sabadell, with places that I would like you to one day visit, such as that of Togores, an oasis in the middle of the metropolitan region of Barcelona that today is threatened by this fourth belt, a road projected by the Franco regime that responded to a model of mobility that has become obsolete and that we must deprogram. It is not a receipt, ladies and gentlemen, that while the Glasgow COP 26 or the Next Generation funds of Europe are betting on a model of productivity and mobility that avoids unsustainable CO2 emissions figures in the world, in this country we still have in the portfolio projects that would encourage more ecological damage against our country. You have to turn that around. We need to boost Spain's train to put an end to Spain's CO2. We need mobility infrastructures to think about people, but also about our environment and our territory. That's our priority. While the right-wings are fighting to see who is leading a demonstration against the right to mobilization, we are working to paralyze projects of high ecological impact. While the right-wing pursue Catalan and want to end multilingual Spain, we contribute almost €6 billion in railway infrastructure. While the right-wings are dedicated to going to Masses that honor dictators and then saying that there is no need for a democratic memory law, we allocate more than EUR 10 billion in policies of fair economic recovery and in moving forward in the process of decarbonisation. [[Applauds]] These are, ladies and gentlemen, the important things that people are waiting for from all of us and it is, ladies and gentlemen, an obligation that this House also has to empty Spain. The train, the fiber optics, the reindustrialisation or the fight against climate change must reach all corners of Spain Without making the ridiculous; that is, let us not do like Mrs Ayuso, who goes 40 kilometers north of Madrid and speaks of emptied Spain. That is an example of the fact that the main enemy of emptied Spain is centralism in Madrid, the centralism of the People's Party, the centralism of Mrs Ayuso, because we sometimes forget the necessary territorial equity. Extremadura, Soria, Teruel, Jaén, Lleida, the Terres de l'Ebre or Cuenca also need and have the right to receive the investments of the State and of the autonomous governments to be on the horizon of the transformation and the fight against climate change because that, ladies and gentlemen, is improbable. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-30-CD211130.u107	Mr López-Bas Valero has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-30-CD211130.u108	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Botran, why are we so committed to saying that the Catalan countries do not exist if they do not exist? The question is: if they do not exist, why do you strive to talk so much about them, unless, probably, you try to cover it up in no technical quality of your motion? [[Applauds]] The first surprise we take is precisely that, that we don't really know what you want to talk about here. It presents us with a series of measures designed - as it tells us - to combat climate change; a cause that, as you all know, brings together countries from all over the world annually, has a global character and is one of the main challenges on the planet. However, the measures that you present as necessary, in addition to fighting and ending climate change, you confine them to what has been invented, which are the Catalan countries, only the Catalan countries. We see that the environment has a political border, that you have invented or that you want to draw up, and from there, the measures to combat climate change no longer pass. There is a real effort being made between different countries of the world to reach consensus, so that both Western countries and other economies, such as India or China, take on their commitments, but you come with a proposal that seeks to combat climate change, basically, by virtue of the postal code, and with that frivolity you become perfect allies of those terraplanists who deny, precisely, climate change. Because there are going to be two types of negatists: those who directly deny the evidence, or say that when it goes up a few degrees it is even better for the temperature of the planet, and those who believe that taking measurements by territories precisely combats the phenomenon only in that territory. That's why you make up that Catalan country that's an invention, and I'm also sorry to disappoint you, as such an invention doesn't exist. Let us go to the bottom of the matter, because what is incredible to us is that you intend to return the Catalans, the Valencians and the whales - all Spanish - to the cave, who want to return them to prehistory by ignoring the very role of technology, science and innovation, precisely in the real, coherent and effective fight against climate change. You, in Catalonia, claim that you do not want airplanes, that you do not want cars, reject the enlargement of El Prat - you would have to talk about it, possibly, with the Catalan Government, that it does not have very clear this subject, that of the B-40 - and deny the opportunity of developing Catalans themselves, not to mention all the jobs related to that economic growth that these infrastructures produce; in the Valencian Community - which is as it is called, by the way, ratified in addition to the Statute that we vote for all Valencians - you reject the enlargement of the port of Valencia, the logistic area of the neighborhood of La Punta, the development of the tourist industry - cruises, in this case - the duplication of the A-7, the V-30 or the V-31, and deny any other opportunity of development to the Valencians; and in Balearics you reject the expansion of the airport of Palma, Son Sant Joan, denying the possibility of development of the whalers themselves. If you are activists, you really are of the loss of opportunities and of impoverishment in yourself, but we must thank you that in these approaches you are clear, explicit and clear, because this is how you take every glimpse of progress from Catalans, Valencians and whales, and we already know what to stick to with you.In fact, if there were anti-Catholic, anti-Valencians and anti-Walears parties, of course, today you would vote in favour of this proposal because, if there is something that really harms the general interest of citizens, it is to leave them without infrastructure, strategic sectors and connections. What you really deny is the development of your own fellow citizens, you forget what your role is in this Congress, and you also forget, of course, the rights and interests of the rest of the Spaniards with these kinds of measures, which we believe are merely sectarian. They guarantee, yes - we do not know how, and we would have liked them to explain it -, how that absurd odyssey is going to come true that climate change can be stopped by transferring ownership of all airports and ports to the governments of Catalonia, Valencia and the Balearic Islands, because none of them have spoken in the same way as you have. That territorial administrative title is maintained by you and you say it will be the panacea for climate change, rather than bet on effective measures. We are going to appeal to knowledge and science, to technology and to the transfer of knowledge - something that perhaps sounds strange to you - and we are going to bet on the strategic sectors, on sustainable and environmentally friendly growth and, of course, on the future - oi me - of all Spain. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-30-CD211130.u109	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Bel Accensi has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-30-CD211130.u110	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Mr Botran, you are making a proposal, a motion for an inquiry, which is somewhat peculiar and from my very contradictory point of view. I'll try to argue with you. Point 1: 'Transfer ownership of all airports and ports in Catalonia, Valencia and the Balearic Islands to their respective autonomous governments'. Absolutely agree. From here one may think that, if you pass these infrastructures to these governments and autonomous parliaments, in any case, if we are consistent with the capacity of self-government and self-decision of the Parliament of Catalonia and the Government of the Generalitat and also that of the governments and parliaments of the Balearic Islands and the Valencia Country, they will have to decide. But no, you say that you are going beyond ownership, but, ladies and gentlemen of the Spanish Parliament, even if we go beyond it, we decided that we would give up, give up, give up and give up again, give up, give up and give up again: five resignations, two withdrawals and a halt to these infrastructures. If we pass it on and say that this is managed by the Generalitat de Catalunya - let's face it - at least be respectful, if you believe what they say, and that in Catalonia you decide on these infrastructures. Here they leave no puppet head: they paralyze, give up and give up all these infrastructures. In Catalonia they give up two: the Prat airport and the B-40, with which we do not agree at all. But I would also like to make an argument. When you say that any work aimed at increasing the capacity of the Barcelona-El Prat airport or the Palma-Son Sant Joan airport should be abandoned, because this increase in the capacity of these airports is going to generate more pollution, will the Madrid airport, when it increases its capacity, not pollute? Is it that the planes of Madrid go with perfumed colony and do not pollute? They have to be consistent, if they ask for the halt and the non-expansion of the airport of Palma and the airport of Barcelona, here we ask for the halt of all the airports. I wouldn't agree to that, but I could understand your consistency. Therefore, we are not going to enter into this dynamic. Is economic development compatible with the rationalization of the use of the resources we have on this planet? Yeah. Should we have an environmental vision in the construction and expansion of new infrastructures? Clearly, yes, but it must be absolutely compatible with economic growth and development. That is possible, it is not a dichotomy, it is not economic growth and environmental aggression; there can and must be environmental respect, with growth and economic development. Therefore, we are going to vote clearly against this approach, first of all out of inconsistency, because if what I intend is that the future of El Prat airport is managed and decided in Catalonia, it will not be the 350 Members here who say what has to be done with El Prat airport, and similarly with the infrastructures of the port of Valencia or the airport of Palma-Son Sant Joan. So, we're sorry to disappoint you. I don't think we let them down, they should have expected it, but what we're not going to get into is this game of the negationism of economic growth.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-30-CD211130.u111	Thank you very much, Mr Bel Accensi. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Granollers Cunillera has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-30-CD211130.u112	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, deputies and deputies. Sometimes it gives the feeling that the left are against everything because yes, that we don't explain ourselves enough and it seems that we're just here to stop the blow. My partner, Gabriel Rufián, was just talking about it last week. I sincerely believe that this is because we do not explain ourselves too well, because little is what we defend or what we aspire to exactly, that behind a not always there is a yes. And as we have said before, in the GNP of the PNV Group, from our group we advocate sustainable mobility decarbonised and managed from the territory. The pandemic has opened up a great opportunity to advance in the conversion of the productive model and in the economic structure of our country. It is time to set limits, we have very clear: there is no future without limits. But today is a good opportunity to explain that behind the no to the expansion of an airport like El Prat is a yes in capital letters and underlined to an economic model that responds to the needs of the citizens of the territory. We reject any plans to expand El Prat airport that would lead to a global increase in emissions, but we do advocate a model that will enhance sustainable mobility, a model that will enhance the balance between the preservation of the territory and biodiversity, a tourism that is necessarily sustainable, the existence of an airport that will allow us more efficient connections and with the least environmental impact, the elimination of short-distance continental flights and, at the same time, the promotion of replacing these flights by rail routes. To understand the example, before cooling the El Prat airport we could think about how to connect the airports of Alguaire, Girona and Reus, and thus avoid a climate crisis, because in the face of climate crises there are sensible solutions. Today is a good opportunity to express that behind the no to the expansion of an airport like Valencia is a yes to the production of quality food. From Esquerra Republicana, as we defend in an initiative with other groups and in several parliamentary questions, we consider that the Harbour Authority of Valencia must give up the current project of expansion north of the port, renounce the construction of a new terminal of cruises next to the marine villages, paralyze the project of the ZAL in La Punta and seek a new destination to the current lands, but we do defend to enhance the proximity, the public transport and not motorized, the adaptation of the urban centers to the climate change, the agriculture of proximity, the public health and the territorial resilience. Today is a good opportunity to express that behind the expansion of an airport like Palma is a yes to a model that respects labour rights. In Republican Esquerra, as we have expressed in various parliamentary initiatives, we reject this enlargement which has sold us as a false remodeling because of the serious ecological, social and labour consequences that this entails. And yes, we advocate an economic diversification of the island of Mallorca, which is not based solely on mass tourism and which dignifies the working conditions of Mallorcan citizens, because on the planet there is only one and what we do with it will always be our responsibility. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-30-CD211130.u113	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Gil Lázaro has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-30-CD211130.u114	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, if the left of this House had a minimum of legal decency this initiative would not have been dealt with, and that is because there is no legal subject in our system to be called Catalan countries, so that it cannot have effect in law what does not exist in law, that is, it could not have been qualified by the Bureau of the House. [[Applauds]] Thus, the VOX Parliamentary Group will not fall into the trap of legitimizing this fraudulent initiative by fully entering its content. On the contrary, we are going to use these five minutes of what we have to tell a clear set of things to the entire extreme separatist left of this House, to sanchism and its communist partners. Look at you, first of all: there are no Catalan countries. That's the crazy dream of coup separatism. Second: the Valencians are not and will never be the country Valencia, because that is the expression with which coup separatism intends to turn us into a marginal neighborhood of that independence dream. [[applause]] The Valencians have historically been the Kingdom of Valencia and today we are by law the Valencian Community. Third: the Valencians feel proud, deeply proud, of being Spanish. All of our history, identity and culture have always been projected at the service of the Spanish homeland in that beautiful and noble commitment with which the first stanza of our anthem begins, which says: 'To offer new glories to Spain'. [[applause]] And fourthly, the Valencians have a language of their own, a multi-secular language, a language that had its first century of history before any other Spanish language, a language that is not Catalan for as long as the separatists and their accomplices strive to impose that fallacy in order to build their independence from there. [[The lady]] Therefore, ladies and gentlemen of the left of this House, the Valencians are fed up; tired of holding you to trample on the law and our identity; tired of Mr. Ximo Puig's complacent fallacy bombs, first with Puigdemont, then with Torra and now with Aragonès, or the memory of evil characters like Joan Fuster, or of living, very alive and very traitorous types to the Valencians, such as Eliseu Climent. The Valencians are fed up with that tripartite council of Puig, which each year distributes millionaire grants to entities that are the Trojan horse of the separatist pancatalanism in Valencia against the will of the Valencians. The Valencians are tired of putting up with the language police that Mr Puig and his partners, fortunately laid down by the Supreme Court, were trying to impose. Or to see how the teaching of the Castilian is intended to be cornered in the classrooms. In short, to see how the tripartite Council of the Valencian Generalitat does nothing but look at the Catalan coup process with rabies, with absolute rabies. And, of course, we Valencians too are sick of Compromises. We're sick of his cowardly servility to separatist interests. [[Protests.-Applause.]] Of his servility under the rope. Where is Mr Baldoví in this debate? Mr Baldoví, who first came up to this rostrum this afternoon to sing an innoble song of Bildu's phyloetatras and his last statement, the gross communiqué of the prisoners, but who, yes, at this very moment has disappeared in order not to have to commit himself to this rostrum and not to have to express his vote afterwards. Harnesses of Compromise! [[Applauds]] And lastly, Mr. CUP representative: the CUP's farce! Tired of their violent Arran puppies, tired of their coming every 9th October, the great feast of the Valencians, to insult and provoke Valencia, or that with initiatives like this you intend to steal from the Valencians works that are essential for their future; by the way, in suspicious coincidence with the same thing that Compromís says. So, I conclude, they're never going to get the Valencians to be part of coup separatism. They will not take away our history, let alone break our deep loyalty to the Spanish nation! In this endeavour VOX will always be at the forefront, without fear of anything or anyone, defending the truth and the law by Valencia and Spain. [[Several ladies and gentlemen of VOX: Long live! Long live Spain!-Applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, on the stand]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-30-CD211130.u115	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thanks to the services of the House. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mrs Montesinos de Miguel has the floor. [[Rumors]] Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-30-CD211130.u116	Ladies and gentlemen of the UPC, first of all, there are neither Catalan countries nor Catalonia will be independent, nor is the Valencian Community called a valencià country, nor are we prepared to support this misunderstanding. [[applause]] I recommend that the autonomy statutes of the Valencian Community and the Balearic Islands be completed and that they be brought into line with reality. You, in your imperialist, sovereignist desire, in that diversion in which you have been settled for a long time, intend with these initiatives to politically colonize the Valencian Community and the Balearic Islands, but we already say no, let them forget. Against what you would like, we live in Spain, a rule of law, and we are protected by the Constitution in its article 145.1, endorsed, by the way, by more than 90% of Catalans. [[Applauds]] See if one of the main pillars of our rule of law has worked that justice has given Puig's proposal on the language law office, i.e. on the language police, a real stalemate. That which you practice so recurrently in Catalonia with the Government at hand: totalitarianism in a pure state. Unfortunately for us, for the Valencian Community, for Catalonia and for the Balearic Islands, Puig, on the one hand, continues to bow his knee to independence and, on the other hand, silences and grants when, at the regional congress, the Congress of the Balearic Islands of the Socialist Party referred to these three communities as Catalan countries. It's absolutely embarrassing. [[Applauds]] We are aware of the challenge we face in terms of the development of the circular economy, the preservation of the environment, ecology and biodiversity, because we do believe and have practiced a policy to combat climate change, but there is a climate emergency, which there is certainly, it is no less true that there is also a discursive emergency. Nothing worse than dealing with the challenges of climate change with the burden of demagogy and ideological dye so dire that it contains this motion, which immediately condemns the economic development and future of workers. Of the eight points of this motion, five are to resign; one is to give up; another is to paralyse and the last is to transfer the powers of ports and airports to Catalonia, Valencia and the Balearic Islands, as if this were the solution to all the evils of climate change in the world. Not a proposal that begins to modernise, produce better or innovate; on the contrary, what they claim is that we go back to the stone age. These infrastructures are designed for decades to survive and these extensions of ports, airports and new road infrastructures will live in their own use the transformation towards sustainable mobility, but not abruptly, as you propose. The final development of biofuels for heavy road transport and electrification of passenger cars and motorcycles will be a reality at the end of the decade. Aircraft will also evolve towards cleaner sectors up to zero emissions. Ladies and gentlemen, the CUP, with a small representation, calls for the abolition of investments affecting millions of citizens, millions of workers. In this regard, we would have liked to hear your concern about the imminent closure of the Nissan plant in Catalonia and the consequences that its workers and workers are already suffering, but above all, they are preventing the creation of 146 000 jobs with the halting of the enlargement of El Prat Airport and the possibility of doubling the turnover. Ladies and gentlemen, in the case of the Balearic Islands they have no idea, they are based on falsehoods. The airport of Palma is not expanded, they are works of improvement; the slots will remain the same. Just as false are the references to the Valencian Community. The public part of the expansion of the port of Valencia is already finished and the second part is paid by the private initiative; there are 15,000 jobs for five years and 5000 permanent jobs that you intend to destroy. Because thanks to the CUP's zeal my community has been touched by their proposal to give up, give up and paralyze, which most needs my land right now, with Sánchez's government firing the bill of light and inflation, and Puig's with his fiscal hell. As far as tourism is concerned, his proposal is in line with Minister Garzón: tourism has little added value and the little it has is polluting. We want Spain to remain one of the main tourist destinations. For us, the tourist of the future will come to Spain in a vehicle of reduced or zero emissions and will move in the cities by public electric transport or other alternatives of sustainable mobility. Does that sound like skates to you? All you have to do is leave the Congress, take a walk and see the alternatives of sustainable public and private mobility that the city of Madrid has. Don't try to direct your policies to other communities because everything you touch practically fades away. Catalonia with you and this Government has lost its economic, cultural and social peak. While you are dedicated to your independence obsessions, our goal, that of the People's Party, is, as the anthem of the Valencian Community says, to work 'to offer new glories to Spain'. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-30-CD211130.u117	Thank you very much, Mrs Montesinos de Miguel. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thanks to the services of the House. For the Socialist Group, Mr Ramírez Carner has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-30-CD211130.u118	Thank you very much, President. Members, Members, ladies and gentlemen of the CUP, you present here a proposal, a kind of potion with many ingredients and many ideas, basically to stop all the infrastructures that can be running or that are going to be expanded, whatever they are, and ask everything to go to Catalonia, Valencia or the Balearic Islands, as if you were going to manage it better. You're upset with everything, you're upset with infrastructure, you're upset with progress, you're also critical of tourism... If it were for you, we'd all go as a donkey. Look, I'm not going to go much longer on the following, but I do want to make clear evidence that Minister Raquel Sánchez said last week, and it is the clear commitment of the Socialist Group and the Left Government that Pedro Sánchez chairs with economic prosperity and social justice, and all this from the utmost respect for this ecological transition that if anyone has placed on the political agenda it has certainly been this group and this Government. [[Applauds]] We say ecological transition, we make ecological transition, and they recognize it; I don't know where you were, just like in your things, but they recognize us internationally for the leadership of the government of Pedro Sánchez in this area. MP Mireia Vehí was calling this very week the constitutionalist right-wing PSC - constitutionalist yes, we like this democracy to us - and she was trying to place, as they do in this text, the Socialist Group as if we were in constant inconsistency. Let's talk about inconsistencies, because between what you say and do the truth is that there is a great stretch. While we were doing the first climate law here, you agreed in Catalonia that new renewable energy projects are being halted. [[Applauds]] That's what you guys were doing while we were moving on here. More inconsistencies. The CUP emerged, especially in 2012, at the institutional level, thanks to its fight against Pujol corruption and cuts in health. Who has seen them and who sees them, ladies and gentlemen of the UPC! Right-wing presidents, who do not lack anything, who do not lack none; right-wing budgets, the CUP supports them all. And then they come here to talk about coherence and give lessons of progressive purity to the rest. The worst social cuts that have been made in Catalonia have been endorsed with their votes. [[Mrs Vehí Cantenys makes negative gestures]] You have voted budget after budget consolidation of these social cuts in health and education. The highest university fees in all of Spain, and I know what I'm talking about, I've had to run until not long ago with the Socialist Youth of Catalonia - are in Catalonia and are also thanks to their votes to these budgets. More coherence and inconsistencies. Mrs. Vehi, I was telling Mr. Rufian in a debate that they were going to weddings at IBEX 35. I was just saying, Esquerra's going to weddings at IBEX 35. Who is the head of the Conseil d'Economie in Catalonia? The lord of that wedding with his vows, the lord of IBEX 35 is the councillor of Catalonia with his vows. A lot of consistency in this, too. And another thing that makes me less funny and just as it hurts a little bit more. You talked a lot about freedom of expression, about democracy. Where is the consistency when more than one hundred and twenty attacks must be reported on the headquarters of the Socialist Party of Catalonia and the Socialist Youth of Catalonia? Twenty in one night, signed: Arran. It sounds to you, however, Consistent and pure gentlemen of the CUP. [[Applauds]] I'm finishing up. According to studies, their voters, very respectable of course, are usually people of rather high class. Therefore, your inconsistencies, that you are the butlers of the right in Catalonia, may not bother you, but do you know what happens? Socialist voters are essential, as are many other people, quality public services, economic progress, social justice, ecological transition. We don't just say, we do, too. You, gentlemen of the CUP, are the left to dream of any right. [[applause]] If they ever go back to where they should never have gone, then count on us. Until then, this doesn't hang. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-30-CD211130.u119	Thank you very much, Mr. Ramírez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] I ask Mr Botran Pahissa whether he accepts his group's amendment.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-30-CD211130.u120	Yeah.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-30-CD211130.u121	Thank you very much, Mr. Botran Pahissa. - the VOX Parliamentary Group, on the measures to be taken by the Government in the field of penitentiary policy. [[File number 173/000109]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-30-CD211130.u122	Ladies and gentlemen, we move on to the next item on the agenda, the motion for an urgent debate by the VOX Group, on the measures to be taken by the Government in the area of prison policy. For the author group of the initiative and for the defence of the motion, Mrs Olona Choclán has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-30-CD211130.u123	With all due respect, Madam President. [[The honourable Member shows a photograph showing several speakers of the Citizens' Security Act.-Applause]] On October 28, Halloween night, a monster wandered freely through the streets of Lardero, in La Rioja, and snatched a nine-year-old, Alex, from his parents' arms, killing his life. He killed him. In the light of the information published by the media, which directly targeted the Minister of the Interior, Marlaska, and his Secretary General of Prison Institutions as the most responsible for this murder, the VOX Parliamentary Group questioned the Minister a few weeks ago, which was subsequently interrupted by the parliamentary debate, and we asked him a few simple questions. Ladies and gentlemen, I remind you of them, in case you weren't paying attention. Could Alex's death have been avoided? Could the Interior Minister have prevented Alex's death? Today the questions were put by the VOX Parliamentary Group to you, the Legislature. Why was this recidivist killer walking around the streets of Lardero on October 28th? Why if this recidivist killer ended his prison sentence in 2023 he could approach the children in a playground on October 28, watching them from the shadows, rocking over little Alex, pulling him out of the arms of his parents, taking him to a dark portal and there, when the monster found himself alone with the child, satisfying his animal instinct by ending his life with his own hands? VOX is going to answer you why this was possible. This was possible because your government, progressive government, and specifically your Minister of the Interior as the most responsible for our country's criminal and prison policy, have decided to play a macabre lottery with our children's lives and that's what you have done with Alex. Because if Alex was killed on October 28th, it is because this Minister of the Interior, his Minister of the Interior, also yours, ladies and gentlemen of Podemos, decided that the recidivist killer should be on the street and not in prison. In addition, he decided with premeditation and affluence, assuming with that decision the risks of releasing a sexual predator, even if that risk is the life of our children. Asked the Minister of the Interior what was the reason why, if this recidivist murderer was to serve his prison sentence in 2023, the Secretary General of Prison Institutions had politically granted the third degree against the technical criterion of the prison treatment board, the minister lied in this very rostrum, as he has been lying to the Spaniards every time he is asked about this question. He took full responsibility for the Prison Surveillance Court, also for the prosecutor's office, lying in this response by concealing that precisely this conditional release granted by the Prison Surveillance Court was possible because the General Secretariat of Prison Institutions had granted the third degree to this recidivist murderer against the technical criterion of the treatment board and had proposed conditional release to the Prison Surveillance Court, which, like the prosecutor's office, relied on the prison administration's criterion, because, who better than the prison administration knows the prisoner who has been in custody for more than fifteen years? And they decided to play you, progressive government, a macabre Russian roulette that ended the murder of a child by a murderer you decided to put on the street. The VOX Parliamentary Group says loud and clear that someone has to take responsibility, because the murder of little Alex could have been avoided; someone has to answer to their parents and someone has to answer to society. That is why we are putting to your consideration and approval today the reprobation and cessation of the Minister of the Interior, Marlaska. That is why today we submit to your consideration and to your approval to promote the necessary legislative reforms to harden the current assumptions of the reviewable permanent prison, whose constitutionality has already been endorsed by our High Court, and to introduce into our legal system the life imprisonment for the most execrable crimes, because if we do not see in the murder committed by a recidivist murderer a ruling, a crack in the system, we are doomed to repeat that ruling. [[Applauds]] And this ruling is not your children, those of most of you, ladies and gentlemen, who live in private urbanizations with private security. [[Rumors.-Mr. Pons Sampietro points to Mrs. Olona Choclán while saying words that are not perceived]] His political goodism kills and has consequences. [[Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-30-CD211130.u124	Quiet. Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-30-CD211130.u125	Do not point to me, Your Honor; do not point to me, for the voice of the people speaks to him. [[Protests.-Applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-30-CD211130.u126	Mrs. Olona, just a moment. Ladies and gentlemen, keep quiet. [[Rumors]] Ladies! You may continue, Mrs. Olona. I'll tell you how much time you've wasted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-30-CD211130.u127	This is what you do, ladies and gentlemen, point with your finger when we put you in front of a mirror... [[rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-30-CD211130.u128	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-30-CD211130.u129	... not to face, as this Minister of the Interior did not, despite being a few minutes' drive from the place where little Alex had been killed on October 28, and to allow with his sectarian policies, contrary to the professional and technical criteria, that murders like that of little Alex will continue to occur because of his fault, because they do not take the appropriate measures. And the appropriate measures are those that VOX today submits to its consideration: extension of the permanent prison reviewable and, of course, life imprisonment for these monsters, that anyone with a minimum of professional experience in prison will tell them that they are closer to the animal nature than that of the human being and that, of course, they will never be reintegrated into society. Therefore, to release you, as you are doing, is to play a Russian roulette with the lives not of your children, ladies and gentlemen, but with the lives of most Spaniards who are not privileged as you are. [[rumors]] Thank you, Madam President. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-30-CD211130.u130	Thank you, Mrs. Olona. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thanks to the services of the House. As no amendments have been tabled to this initiative, we move on to position-setting. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, first of all, Mr Martínez Oblanca.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-30-CD211130.u131	Thank you very much, Madam President. At the last control session, two opposition groups agreed to question the Government about its prison policy and, as was foreseeable, they agreed this afternoon to raise their respective motions as a result of that inquiry. This of the VOX Parliamentary Group, which has a very broad and well-worked explanatory statement, insists on the reprobation of the Minister of the Interior, Mr Grande-Marlaska, something which is already a classic of this XIV Legislature and which I share once again because we are faced with a disastrous political management, plagued by erratic decisions and erroneous resolutions. Ladies and gentlemen, the abominable crime of the child of Lardero in La Rioja should never have been perpetrated if the recidivist monster, with a history of sexual assault, murder and child abuse, had not received the benefits of a penitentiary policy that confuses the target of reinsertion of the predator and fails to understand the risks of his conduct by releasing him and by mistrusting that good behaviour in the prison regime is going to be transferred to everyday life. And no. Spanish society regularly convulses itself with horrendous crimes that seem to be calcified, hence the relevance of the reviewable permanent prison sentence and its hardening to life imprisonment so that the safety and well-being of society are not threatened by the release of these sexual aggressors whose recidivism is not avoided in a majority of cases, by many reintegration programmes that have been registered for the sole purpose of achieving prison benefits. In short, I agree that the Government is urged to introduce life imprisonment into our legal system, as set out in this motion. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-30-CD211130.u132	Thank you very much, Mr Martínez Oblanca. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Many thanks to the services of the House. For the same group, Mr Sayas López has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-30-CD211130.u133	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Indeed, there has not been a single day in the whole legislature in which there has been no reason for Mr Marlaska to cease to be a minister; not a single day in the whole legislature. There is only one reason why he has not ceased to be a minister, and it is because all the facts that Mr Marlaska has committed have done them in defence and on behalf of Mr Sánchez. That's the only reason he hasn't stopped being a minister. But this is about prison policy, and from what Mr Marlasca has done the worst we will see from now on, because what we will see from now on is that ETA prisoners will go out on the street. That is going to be the new prison policy and for that they are preparing the ground for us, ladies and gentlemen. For that, first, they approved the budgets with Bildu. Mr Otegi has already made it clear, but in case we had any doubt, today we have known the pantomime that the ETA prisoners have signed telling us that they were no longer honoured in public, but that it is done in private, as if it were not necessary to have a pitiful dungeon to honor a murderous age, that that is what worries us, not that it is public or that it is private. [[Applauds]] But, of course, what is also worrying is that today we have attended the reading of the terrorist manifesto by a spokesman for Bildu and here we have not changed practically. Today Mrs Aizpurua has exercised in this Chamber of spokespersons for murderers, torturers, kidnappers, and here she has not taken a single word from the Journal of Sessions, and that is a shame, and that had to move us all who are here. Because, do you imagine anyone coming to read a manifesto in the name of pederastas? Can you imagine someone coming to read a manifesto on behalf of rapists? Can you imagine what would happen in this House? For a manifesto has been read here today in the name of murderers, accomplices, torturers. Yes, that is what has been done in this House today. [[Applauds]] And those have been called today by Mrs Aizpurua Basque prisoners, as if the important thing was origin or provenance. No, the origin gives us exactly the same, what matters to us are the facts they have committed. Then, that same spokesman has told us that here comes to attack political opponents, and tells us who has read a manifesto of those who have dedicated themselves to annihilating the political opponent. Finally, we have had to hear the Socialist Party say that this is to see who insults the most. Look, what is an insult, really, is that the Socialist Party has sold decency for the armchair, because decency has already lost it, but the armchair is going to lose it soon. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-30-CD211130.u134	Thank you, Mr. Sayas. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thanks to the services of the House. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-30-CD211130.u135	Thank you very much, President. I shall fix the position of this initiative on my turn in the next motion, given the identity of its content. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-30-CD211130.u136	Thank you very much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Gutiérrez Vivas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-30-CD211130.u137	Thank you, President. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-30-CD211130.u138	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-30-CD211130.u139	Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Mr Marlaska has been reprimanded in this rostrum on many occasions, and the truth is that he has given us all the Spanish: when he applied arbitrary cessations in the State Security Forces and Corpses; when he did not defend the State Security Forces and Corpses from attacks, such as that of the spokesman for the United Nations Podemos, Mr Echenique; when he has denied a fair wage equality for the men and women of the State Security Forces and Corpses; when he has approached the prisoners of age; when he has not defended prison officials in the face of aggression; when, moreover, he has devoted himself to propagating bubbles, such as the last in the prison of Villena, but also before that alleged homophobic crime in Madrid. We now see with amazement that, in addition, Mr Ortiz, Secretary General of Prison Institutions, makes his own interpretation of the General Prison Law as it relates to third grades. Therefore, Mr Marlaska has clearly become a creditor, once again - once again - for this matter, that we reproach him. But let us not be mistaken, ladies and gentlemen - let us not be mistaken - this is a vicarious reprobation, and I will explain myself. It is a vicarious reprobation because it is Mr Sánchez here whom we have to reprobate, who is the President of the Government, who is the one who allows Mr Marlaska to do everything he is doing. Not only does he allow it, but he also encourages these things to be done exclusively so that he can stay one more day in Moncloa. Because Mr Sánchez has made his own the independence theses in Catalonia; he has made his own the theses of Bildu in which we are told of a supposed armed struggle, where they equate the victims with the executioners; Mr Sánchez has agreed prisoners for budgets. And I would like to ask the Socialist Party - not the Sanchist Party, the Socialist Party - how far are you going to get to Mr Sánchez? How far do they think they're going to continue swallowing their affiliates, their voters, the Spanish citizens? How far do you think you can take this? Because for Mr Sánchez there is no limit, there is no limit. I insist: prisoners for budgets. If this does not seem to you to exceed all the limits of what is allowed in the whole history of our democracy, I do not know what Mr Sánchez's next blow can be, with Marlaska or without Marlaska. Ladies and gentlemen, today when we discussed the Citizens' proposal on the Victims Act, we have been told that they are considering amending the Victims Act. If you're studying it, why don't you consider that law and what you don't like amend it? Because we are here to legislate, not to debate only for television; we are here to legislate. Our obligation is to legislate and, therefore, to comply with the legislative proposals presented by the groups and to amend what we do not like. Above all, with the majority of you, I don't understand how afraid you are of this subject. But it is that, moreover, in relation to the General Prison Law we are told that they are also studying a modification of it. And when do you plan to bring her to this House? Who do you think you're talking to? Who are you talking to about the Victims Act? Who are you talking to about the General Penitentiary Law? Who have you talked to about the amendments to the Citizens' Security Act? Because they haven't talked to this group, either of the three things. You only talk these things to your partners, to your partners in Podemos, to your partners in Bildu and to your partners in the Republican Left of Catalonia. That's the real reality of what we have. We therefore, of course, want to blame Mr Marlaska and Mr Sánchez. We say this loud and clear: we must prove them because they have become creditors of that reprobation by this House, but I also want to say one thing to Mr de VOX. Don't trap us in your emotions; don't cheat us, don't mix things up. Do not mix your reproaching the minister with bringing here a debate on life imprisonment, that this debate is lawful, but do it well. Bring here a modification, in this case of the Spanish Constitution, to take this forward and let us have a debate on this subject, but do not trap the lonely ones who are used to mixing things up because that does not suit us. I am already telling you that we are not in favour of amending Article 25 of the Spanish Constitution, as you claim. Thank you, President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-30-CD211130.u140	Thank you very much, Mr Gutiérrez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thanks to the services of the House. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Boadella Esteve has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-30-CD211130.u141	Good afternoon. Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am not going to go much longer in the speech because I believe that, in addition to the reprobation of the Minister of the Interior, which is intended by VOX for the umpteenth time, there is a fundamental issue. It was previously suggested that a motion could not prosper by mentioning the Catalan countries. Well, in this case perhaps we could do the same analysis as to whether this motion could succeed in so far as the only thing that it raises in substance is a constitutional reform. This is curious coming from VOX, because article 25 of the Constitution, as you must know perfectly, says that custodial sentences will be oriented towards re-education and social reintegration. Therefore, life imprisonment, as you also know perfectly well, which is legal and legal, cannot be applicable in Spain and in the current Penal Code, nor would it be in accordance with article 15 of the Constitution, which speaks of the right to life, to physical and moral integrity and that there is no torture or inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment. Thus, when it is intended to promote relevant policy reforms to tighten the current reviewable permanent prison regulations and introduce life imprisonment, what is being done on the merits is to propose a change to the Constitution. Therefore, that sacrosanct Constitution, in which for you you cannot touch a single coma, turns out that there is a proposal to touch it and to do so in the sense of increasing the penalties and even introducing life imprisonment into the legal system. Of course, they will not find us in this area, and less by using the case of a child, whom we deeply regret and condemn, to put forward their political postulates. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-30-CD211130.u142	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thanks to the services of the House. Mr Delgado Ramos has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-In Comú Podemos-Galicia in common.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-30-CD211130.u143	Thank you very much, Madam President. [[The Lord]] The far right brings here again to Congress a sanatorium that we are already accustomed to, a sanatorium lined with baroque verborrhea, which disguises a supposed concern for the safety of the people and which, in fact, is nothing more than an inquisitorial cause against the members of the Government and, like every inquisitorial act, is plagued with deception, bulls and half-truths, which is the worst of lies. The explanatory statement of this initiative, 118 pages old-fashioned, proper to an inquisitor bishop of the 17th century, which is the time when the deputies of the far right live, is full of hatred for democracy, against pluralism, the rule of law and, moreover, disrespect for their own voters. [[applause]] You say in this initiative that serious irregularities are occurring on the part of the Government of Spain, but you launch the accusation without a single conflicting evidence, relying on 'as they say', 'as they say', and using as a source of legal authority what you have read or seen in some media, and we are not surprised. It is the same course that they did from the Ministry of the Interior with the case of the colonel of the Civil Guard Pérez de los Cobos: insults, lies, manipulations and hatreds in industrial quantities. By the way, after months of slander and gross insults, the court ruling came and the judges said that it had been acted in accordance with the law. And on this occasion you return to the path you used in the Pérez de los Cobos case, you make veiled accusations of having committed some illegal type, such as that from the Ministry of the Interior you are paid to grant third-degree prisoners and other niceties, a behavior more like the procurators of the Franchise Courts than deputies of the democratic Spain of the twenty-first century. At the height of its sanctity, they come here to urge the Government to make policy changes. I mean, you somehow recognize that the law is being properly enforced, but you don't like this regulation. And I say, if you don't like this regulation, why don't you come here with a bill? That is, if you believe that this prison regulation does not work, it is not good, submit a bill. But you prefer to act more like inquisitors than legislators, and you know why? Because drafting a bill involves, first of all, working hard, meeting with experts, exposing yourself to whether or not this House approves it and, in particular, to dialogue, surrender and compromise, and those words are not in its vocabulary: to agree, accede and dialogue, which are the mechanisms that give a rule of law. Gentlemen of VOX, you have not come here to work so hard, but to build your sanatoriums, which then spread on your social networks to turn lies into truth. The worst part of this initiative is not that they spread lies and slanders against the coalition government - we had hoped for that - but that they use the pain they cause in citizenship sexual crimes and media murders to distort and make the environment worse. You come here to paint an insecure country, where murderers walk loose on the streets, precisely when the crime rate in Spain is the lowest in thirty-nine years. Spain is a safe country, even if it is not right for you to do this kind of policy. [[Applauds]] I'm on my way. Gentlemen of VOX, your voters deserve you to work more, be more rigorous, abandon the lie as a political weapon and earn your salary honestly, making laws and not sanity. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-30-CD211130.u144	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, I have the floor, Mrs Álvarez Fanjul. Mrs ÁLVAREZ FANJUL: Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. 'We want to live in peace, we have suffered enough and we still have much to suffer'. These are the words of a broken family, so I can't start this intervention without sending a strong hug to the family of little Alex. [[Applauds]] No one should suffer such suffering, no one, but it's not the first time. During this parliamentary term, we have had the misfortune of discussing in this Chamber atrocious crimes related to the youngest, children who have been taken from their parents, children whose lives have been sentenced too soon, children who were not protected by those who had a legal obligation to care for and protect them. Perhaps one of the most difficult things to be a Member of Parliament is to see that, in the face of cases involving the youngest children, we do not find in this Chamber the unity of action that our children deserve. The other day, we learned that the Socialist Party was trying to stop in the European Parliament the mission approved on 30 September to investigate cases of sexual exploitation of sixteen children under the guardianship of the island government of Mallorca. And are you the ones who call themselves feminists, progressives and guarantors of the rights of the most vulnerable? [[Applauds]] It is, at least, curious, ladies and gentlemen. In the terrible event that VOX has brought to this plenary, there has been an obvious, bad practice on the part of the Ministry of the Interior. A bad practice that exemplifies the real failure of the prison policy of this Government and, in particular, of Mr. Grande-Marlaska, because political motivations are imposed under his command, in the face of technical criteria; because it has been discovered that in his ministry, those directors of prisons who grant more third grades are encouraged to pay. What's the price of a life? Two thousand euros? Ladies and gentlemen, when party motivations and political payments are mixed with an area as delicate as prison policy, we can only expect the worst. Where is the commitment of our institutions to ensure the safety of the Spaniards? Why do we want professional reports if decisions are made at the stroke of political opportunism? It is not a question of having as few prisoners as possible in prison, ladies and gentlemen, it is a question of protecting as many lives as possible. Unfortunately, the prison policy of Grande-Marlaska is characterized by, and I will no longer enter the collegiate who is brought with Bildu nor will I mention the transfers of all the prisoners of age to prisons in the Basque Country, but something much more serious, the justification for the celebration of the ongi etorri as a form of exercise of the right of democratic demonstration. We have gone from not being able to sleep with Podemos and get them into government, to feeling disgusted, as you have said today, by the old tributes and having partners who, today, continue to justify it. Or the increase in attacks on prison officials, eternally abandoned by this Government. All this obviously justifies a reprobation of Mr Marlaska and that this House should ask Mr Sánchez for his dismissal. However, it is not acceptable to propose to this House the introduction into our legal system of a life sentence, for a simple reason: it is unconstitutional and unnecessary. Unnecessary because it was the People's Party, together with its Government, that approved the permanent, reviewable prison, a measure, of course, fully constitutional as the Constitutional Court itself recognized last October. And we have been the ones who have on numerous occasions called for an increase in the number of offences punishable by this penalty, so that they are frankly terrible, such as those abusers who end up murdering repeat rapists, or even those murderers who hide the body. That is precisely why we cannot get out of the constitutional framework. What needs to be done is to support the permanent prison that can be reviewed as a guarantee that murderers like Lardero will not re-offend. Nothing more and thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-30-CD211130.u145	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Arribas Maroto has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-30-CD211130.u146	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, in this fight between VOX and the People's Party to see who has the most miserable speech, let me tell you that you are tied. The right and the extreme right are fighting without any kind of modesty or decency, simply to draw a political outcome from the pain of the victims, and that, ladies and gentlemen, is regrettable. [[Applauds]] Today we are dealing with a false motion. Once again they present in the plenary a partial, visceral and unreflective view of a concrete situation in order to try to crucify the whole of society. You have had the bad faith to attribute directly to the Minister of the Interior the responsibility for the death of a minor in La Rioja, and that is false and, as you well know, legally is a slander. It is very serious to accuse Minister Marlaska and the Secretary General of Prison Institutions of moving away from the impartial and technical criterion that grants the third degree to the recidivist killer, arguing that his prison policy is the mass release of prisoners. Ladies and gentlemen of VOX, you, with this proposal, intend to extend the permanent prison reviewable for more crimes, in addition to the introduction of life imprisonment in our legal system. Do you want to load Article 25 of our Constitution? You don't know him? Are you the ones who claim to be constitutionalists? Mrs. Olona, let's review your motion, a motion full of lies and falsehoods. And to prove it, let's list each of them, to see if you understand once and for all how democracy works in our country. First, they ignore the difference between the third degree and probation, making the Government responsible for a decision that was taken by the prison supervisory judge. Once again it is clear that you do not know the separation of powers. [[Applauds]] On the other hand, his initiative is once again an insult to the national prison system and to the officials who make up it. They have little shame in insinuating that it is paid for the granting of third degrees, and that is a very serious accusation, ladies and gentlemen. Not everything is worth in politics for a minute of glory. If you truly believe that it is so, be brave, go to court and prove with facts that you are here to serve our country and not to politically discredit our Government with your accusations. But reality is another as much as you try to alter it. Both the resolution on the granting of the third degree and the resolution on provisional release used the criterion of legality and were granted by the regulated bodies of our prison legislation, not by any political body. Ladies and gentlemen, as many times as you tell a lie you will never turn it into truth. You urge the Government to promote policy reforms and, Mrs Olona, for that you should use a bill, not a motion resulting from urgent interpretation. If you don't know, I'll confirm it to you; furthermore, you, who are a lawyer, should know. Ladies and gentlemen of the right, you have a miserable, empty, rancid and vengeful political speech, and if there is one thing we are clear about is that you are not at the service of the Spaniards. Therefore, do not try to defile and blame the Minister of the Interior and repudiate yourselves, because unfortunately using the pain of others for your own benefit is bad. [[applause]] This, ladies and gentlemen, is first of all ethics, that subject that you never attended. Thank you, President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-30-CD211130.u147	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] - the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress, to report on penitentiary policy. [[File number 173/000110]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-30-CD211130.u148	We then proceeded to discuss the motion resulting from an urgent inquiry by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress to report on prison policy. For the defence of the motion, the author of the initiative, Mr. Santamaría Ruiz, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-30-CD211130.u149	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Let me take this opportunity, when it is only six days away from being celebrated and celebrated for forty-three years since the adoption of our Magna Charter, to claim, more than ever, the legacy of reconciliation which was born of that text and which has allowed us Spaniards to live together in peace, harmony and freedom. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, last Monday Fr. Francisco Vázquez, an illustrious socialist and former mayor of La Coruña, gave a brief lecture in this House with Miguel Herrero and Rodríguez de Minón, one of the seven parents of the Constitution, saying that the 1978 Constitution was born to put an end to more than one hundred and sixty years of conflict between Spaniards. The Spanish Constitution - he said - is the heir of the bet for national reconciliation demanded by Azaña in his already famous speech of July 18, 1938, when he asked for peace, mercy and forgiveness for the Spaniards. It is a Constitution that came true by betting on a model of non-traumatic rupture in which he believed the sensible socialism of the Transition, with Mr Felipe González at the head. He even presented himself as the solution proposed by the Communist Party - I am glad that Mr Garzón is here, because today I am going to quote the Communist Party and it is not usual for the People's Party to quote him - when in 1956 his central committee fixed its position on a document entitled 'For national reconciliation, for a democratic and peaceful solution to the Spanish problem'; as I say, written in 1956. And I do it because I was saying things that the Communist Party of today and Podemos has quite separated from. He said: 'In the republican camp are more numerous and influential the opinions of those who believe that the hatreds and grudges of the Civil War must be buried, because the spirit of destitution is not a constructive feeling'. Has the Communist Party changed, Mr. Garzón? So much has been abducted by Podemos that he has lost his essence and his own personality? Because he solemnly declared that he was'ready to contribute unreservedly to the national reconciliation of the Spaniards and to end the division opened by the Civil War'. He kept saying that 'a new generation that did not experience war grows, that does not share the hatreds and passions of those who participate in it'. Hate that, yet-added me-, you do feed. And he added: 'We cannot, without incurring tremendous responsibility to Spain and to the future, weigh on that generation the consequences of events in which it did not take part'. That is what the Communist Party said in its commitment to national reconciliation in 1956. They are, ladies and gentlemen, words for reflection that remind us of the duty entrusted to us by our parents and grandparents; for you wrong, but for us quite certain and sensible. Our parents and grandparents commissioned us not to wash hatreds, but above all not to change words such as peace, mercy, forgiveness and reconciliation for others such as spite, hatred or revenge. I wonder how this generation dares to judge that of our parents and grandparents, how it can be so powerful to be able to judge a generation that suffered what it suffered and had to go through where it went. Ladies and gentlemen, when I speak from this rostrum in these terms, although I seem to deviate from the agenda item, I do so in order to ask Mr Sánchez to link up and put once and for all the prison policy in the service of national reconciliation and not in the service of confrontation between Spaniards, and to stop using it as an instrument of revenge and confrontation, because that is really the fundamental issue on which we are debating. [[applause]] That is the substantive issue that is being discussed this afternoon. Ladies and gentlemen, I recall a statement made by Mr Rufián that it seems to me to be a monument to totalitarianism, but I believe that he follows quite the left of this country. We heard you ask in that rostrum for a union of the left so that the right can never again rule in this country, which you will understand that in principle it is something that seems improper of a democracy and unsuitable for a Democrat. This way of understanding democracy is to confuse and replace reconciliation with resentment. Is it this left that prefers to return to Spain one hundred and sixty years ago instead of Spain that must win the future for our children? Is this the left that considers that dialogue should only be held with those who are left-wing, similar, but not with those who think differently? This, ladies and gentlemen, is terribly serious and, in essence, is the underlying issue behind the government's prison policy. As I said, it is for these purposes that the current prison policy of the Government serves that Sánchez decided a long time ago to put at the service of that totalitarian project which seems to be pursuing his Government, committed to perpetuating itself in power and which coincides with the vision proposed by Mr Rufián, where there is no one who is not an equal, no one who is not from the left, no one who thinks differently. Ladies and gentlemen, whitening Bildu as a political partner requires bringing the prisoners of the terrorist band ETA closer together with the excuse that ETA no longer kills, even if there is no collaboration with justice or repentance and despite the fact that there are still more than three hundred crimes to be solved. Blanking Bildu requires bringing prisoners closer to the prisons of the Basque Country; it requires putting prisoners on the street; it requires encouraging third-degrees - even if this has the consequence of taking forward the life of a poor child in Lardero - so that ETA prisoners can be in their homes as soon as possible and Sánchez closer to his totalitarian project. This is what is behind this government's prison policy. Blanking Bildu, ladies and gentlemen, makes us forget the best of socialism and the good that has contributed to Spanish society in its one hundred and forty years of history. It is a hundred and forty years that they cannot end up whitening Bildu, because they remind us of the Socialist Party of the coup of 1934 and not of the left of the Transition; they remind us of the intransigent left that ended the life of Calvo Sotelo and not the one that has so many times fought and defended fundamental rights and public freedoms, and reminds us of that left that decided to take a sad shortcut in the anti-terrorist struggle and not the one that suffered in its own flesh the pain of violence. Ladies and gentlemen, the innocence of Alex, murdered in Lardero; the pain of his family; the dignity of the victims of that terrorism which no longer kills but whose pain persists; and the spirit of reconciliation demanded of us by our parents and grandparents, concerned about the future of their grandchildren and great-grandchildren, are the great sacrifices of this penitentiary policy based on revenge.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-30-CD211130.u150	Your Honor, you must finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-30-CD211130.u151	Therefore, we ask the PSOE to abandon this authoritarian project that it pursues and we do so by asking that access to the third degree not be encouraged, by blaming the minister and asking that the General Prison Law be amended.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-30-CD211130.u152	Your Honor, finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-30-CD211130.u153	And we do so by reminding little Alex that he is surely the saddest exponent of the failure of the socialist government's prison policy. [[Applauds.-Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-30-CD211130.u154	As no amendments have been tabled to this initiative, we move on to position-setting. [[Rumors]] For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-30-CD211130.u155	Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Rumors]] I take for granted the arguments of my previous intervention... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-30-CD211130.u156	One moment, Mr. Martínez Oblanca, please. Ladies and gentlemen, we have only one point, which is what we are debating. To all those who are joining the Chamber, I ask for silence and respect for the speaker, please. Thank you. Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-30-CD211130.u157	Thank you, Mr. President. He said that I take for granted the arguments of my previous speech for Congress to repudiate the Minister of the Interior, Mr. Grande-Marlaska, for his disastrous management over the three and a half years he has been in office. I will also respond with my affirmative vote to the tightening of the measures provided for in the current General Penitentiary Law so that the perpetrator of a horrendous crime cannot progress to a new degree and receive prison benefits without the absence of risk of recidivism being faithfully accredited and by specialists. Spanish society, as has been repeated this afternoon, cannot accept the threat posed by the release of another sexual predator such as the one who ended the life of the child of Lardero or, otherwise, we will again be horrified by similar events, which regularly shock and scandal our society. Ladies and gentlemen, the People's Parliamentary Group puts forward in its motion a series of measures to ensure that prison officials are finally given the salary they deserve from the Government and to correct as soon as possible the injustice and pay inequality they face in comparison with other public officials. We have already discussed this in previous legislatures and it is one of the major subjects that remains to be discussed in relation to our penal institutions and that, therefore, causes discredit on the representative institutions. It should be noted that today two parties are part of the blue bank that expressly committed themselves to groups that came to the General Courts to reveal the problems that prison officials have and that they are not only wages, but are also very broad and important, starting with their own security in the exercise of their work. The two parties that are now part of the government, but who were then in opposition, said yes, that's good, that's good. But now, in the Executive, they no longer agree, as we had the opportunity to see last week with the rejection of the budgetary amendments that raise the pay increase would equal prison staff with other public servants. The rejection of the inclusion in the public accounts of 2022 of the equalization of wages portrays you, gentlemen of the PSOE and of the Unidad Podemos, to you and to those who support you with your votes in the Chamber. Along with equal pay, it is also urgent to recognize the status of agents of the authority to correct the lack of security in prisons, as they are workers who are highly exposed to incidents and attacks. The security of these prison officials must therefore be a priority for the Government and, in particular, for the Ministry of the Interior. In this regard, and referring to the prison in Asturias, I would like to echo the report which reflects that it has the oldest staff in Spain, with one third of the workers over the age of 60 and more than one hundred vacancies, of the order of one hundred and twenty vacancies. Requests to rejuvenate and complete the staff have even received the endorsement of the Ombudsman, but have once again fallen into the broken bag of prison institutions. I shall vote in favour of the motion tabled by the People's Parliamentary Group. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-30-CD211130.u158	Thank you so much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-30-CD211130.u159	Thank you very much, President. On the occasion of the crime of Lardero, which took the life of a child and by which a sentenced person who was in third grade in his form of parole is held in pre-trial detention, there has been a fair wave of indignation over this heinous crime which has destroyed a family and shocked us all. I would first like to send a message of solidarity from the Basque Parliamentary Group for the suffering of the family and relatives of the child Alex de Lardero. On the question we are debating, which is nothing other than the initiatives of VOX and the People's Parliamentary Group on the occasion of this horrific crime, I would like to say that we are shocked by both the interpellations and the motions. I have read them several times and I find no other qualification than that of unacceptable. They go far beyond the legitimate criticism of a specific prison policy. It is alleged that it endangers the life of innocent citizens painfully by means of a policy condescending with the prisoners, consisting in classifying them in the third degree through economic stimulus to those responsible for the prison facilities on the treatment boards, concealing that this is done within the framework of article 103 of the Prison Rules and that it requires the unanimity of the treatment board, which refers to prisoners with sentences of less than one year and only in the first of them. It is also alleged that the situation of conditional release of the suspect of the murder of the child of Lardero was the result of an irresponsible, criminal and conscious prison policy of the Ministry of the Interior, concealing that it was agreed by the Prison Surveillance Court on a proposal of the Board of Treatment, that the Office of the Prosecutor did not appeal against it, and that the Prison Surveillance Court modified the restricted form of the third degree granted by the Secretary-General of Penitentiary Institutions, which entailed the restriction of departures abroad in accordance with the characteristics of the sentenced person and his criminal career within the framework of article 82 of the regulation; concealing that this third degree was not a political decision, but a constitutional decision was made on the basis of thirty-nine prison permits in the preceding seven years, and after twenty-two years of the execution of the twenty-five years of the sentence, although certainly with the negative report on the execution of six of the nine members of the treatment group, and a preliminary ruling; concealing that this third degree was not a political decision, but a constitutional government, but a constitutional decision on the prison sentence under the law and a sentence of the law, and a sentence under the law, and a sentence of the sentence of the sentence of execution of the sentence of the sentence of the sentence of the sentence of the sentence of the sentence of the sentence of the sentence of the sentence of the sentence of the sentence of the sentence of the sentence of the sentence of the sentence of the sentence of the sentence of the sentence of the sentence of the sentence of the sentence of the sentence of the sentence of the sentence of the sentence of the sentence of the sentence of the sentence of the sentence of the sentence of the sentence of the sentence of the sentence of the sentence of the sentence of the sentence of the twenty-five twenty-five sentence of execution of the sentence of the sentence of the sentence of the sentence of the sentence of the sentence of the sentence of the sentence, the sentence of the sentence of the sentence of the sentence of the sentence of the sentence of the sentence, the sentence of the sentence of the sentence of the sentence of the sentence of the sentence of the sentence of the sentence of the sentence of the sentence of the sentence of the sentence of the sentence of the sentence of the sentence of the sentence of the sentence of the sentence of the sentence of the sentence of the sentence of the sentence of the sentence of the sentence of the sentence of the sentence of the sentence of the In short, ladies and gentlemen, they are all initiatives that distort the facts, that distort the rules, that manipulate and mix, and that accuse us of consciously, responsibly and criminally endangering the life of the citizenry, and only to exploit and patrimony a tragic event that has shocked us all. They are initiatives that will not count on our support neither to harden the reviewable permanent prison nor to introduce life imprisonment or to amend Article 100(2) of the Prison Rules nor to ensure that progress can be a competence of the prison supervisory courts nor to delegitimize the Government through one of its members; above all, in a society that has the lowest crime rates in Europe - mainly, in the most serious crimes -, with one of the toughest criminal codes, the highest prison rates in relation to the crime rate and the oldest prison population in relation to the European average. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-30-CD211130.u160	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Gutiérrez Vivas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-30-CD211130.u161	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, chapter two. We're going to talk about the same thing again. In this case, I would like to mention those who have always been said that they are the great forgotten of the Ministry of the Interior, which are precisely those of Prison Institutions; what happens is that they are no longer the forgotten, they are now the abandoned. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that, as one of the official platforms of this institution rightly says, sometimes abandonment can kill. Indeed, that is what many prison officials fear, that the abandonment to which they are subjected by this Government will eventually lead to a disgrace in our prisons. Ladies and gentlemen, it seems incredible - as we mentioned earlier - that Mr Sánchez and this Government, the Sanchist Government, have the ability to give an ideology patina to anything that touches. It seems incredible that all public institutions place them permanently in the tension. It seems a lie that no corner of the state is alien to Mr. Sánchez for this polarization and tension. I remind you that the judges have this ideological tension, that it is the General Council of the Judiciary, that it is the public television, that it is the Court of Auditors and, now, that it is the general prison policy, because nothing remains far from Mr Sánchez's hand. They began with the rapprochement of the prisoners of age to prisons near the Basque Country, even against the criteria of the treatment board; and you, Mr. Legarda, know well, even against the criteria of the prison treatment board. They continued with the progression of grade also of the ages. They finished the third point with pardons to the independence politicians. And now Mr Ortiz - we understand that with Mr Marlaska's satisfaction too - tells us that he has a strategy for grade progression and for prison permits; and, even if you say no, there is an economic incentive for this and I think that is particularly serious. Ladies and gentlemen, we support Article 25 of the Spanish Constitution and point 2, which states that penalties must be geared towards re-education and social reintegration as fundamental aspects of prison policy. But, ladies and gentlemen, one thing is Article 25 of the Constitution and another that you want to empty the Spanish prisons. They're two totally different things. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that not all crimes are the same. There are crimes of particular gravity, of particular social significance, which are particularly repugnant: terrorist crimes, crimes against minors, the murders of women victims of sexist violence. These are all particularly repugnant crimes. Precisely in the face of these crimes, prison policy should be an extreme factor in prevention and precaution. That is what we miss, that prevention and precaution should not be exaggerated. Lardero's crime is undoubtedly one of these crimes, a repugnant crime in which prevention has failed, in which caution in granting third-degrees has failed. And that means that our prison system doesn't work and that our General Penitentiary Law has gaps and gaps that we have to cover. You, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, know that. Something's wrong with our General Penitentiary Law. I believe that the spirit of the Constitution can be guaranteed, that article 25.2 can be guaranteed and that society can also be protected, because it is the duty of this Government to protect society. There are no inevitable crimes, ladies and gentlemen, there are no inevitable crimes; what needs to be done is to be able to prevent such crimes from occurring, and for that the amendment of the General Prison Law is fundamental. As I said in my previous speech, you say that you want to amend the General Prison Law, but it seems that you do not want to agree with anyone or any group in this House, at least not those who are not their partners. I ask them: Why? Why is it that something as important as this does not require the Minister and the Secretary General of Prison Institutions to consult what the opinion of the rest of the groups is?
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-30-CD211130.u162	Your Honor, you must finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-30-CD211130.u163	It's over, President. Why do they always want to break through the opposition's initiative with the roller? I believe that this is something that the Spanish citizens should know - but also, ladies and gentlemen, as I have said to you before, your Socialist voters - that we are not going anywhere. Thank you, President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-30-CD211130.u164	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Boadella Esteve has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-30-CD211130.u165	Good afternoon. Thank you very much, Mr President. I am speaking very briefly, because the content of the speech has already been said. It takes advantage of a regrettable fact and which we condemn to reproach the minister, to ask for the amendment of the General Prison Law, to have the officials be authority or even to approve a salary increase in the General Budgets of the State. We understand that if this debate is to be dealt with - although we do not think it is appropriate - it is better not to do so in a hot mood, not as a result of unfortunate events. That is why we are not going to support this motion, which makes a totum revolutionum of issues that makes no more sense than trying to exploit a misfortune to make politics. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-30-CD211130.u166	Thank you so much. Mrs Garrido Gutiérrez has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-30-CD211130.u167	Thank you, President. The People's Group is now presenting a motion to insist on certain claims that, by saying it loud and clear, are not in accordance with human rights and how prison policy should be considered in a democratic country. Regrettably, the right-wing have us accustomed to the torturing use of the suffering of the relatives of victims of very serious crimes. In this proposal to justify themselves they resort no more or less to Alex's case, the child murdered in Lardero, who, of course, has moved us all. On previous occasions they have also referred to Machist murders, not so much to fight or denounce this scourge, but to make visible their reductionist recipes in prison matters, and, of course, they are also not forgotten in their mentions of the prisoners of ETA: everything goes well. You are taking advantage of media cases that are, in fact, horrible, but that are also, as you know, an exception in criminal execution. And the understandable indignation at these facts cannot be the excuse for going against a prison policy that must be geared towards re-education and social reintegration. And it's not a defense that makes United We can, that's what the Constitution itself says, gentlemen of the PP; read the Constitution well, read Article 25.2. The PP continues to do a partisan reading of the Constitution, read only what he likes. The execution of custodial sentences must always consist in providing the person deprived of liberty with the necessary tools to enable him or her to develop without committing crimes when he or she is released from prison. There is no other possible content; otherwise, there is a risk of inhuman and degrading punishment, contrary to article 15 of the Constitution, read it too. We must end, gentlemen of the PP, with criminal conduct, not with people. The solution was not to stiffen sentences, but to implement effective policies of resocialization and reintegration, to focus on crime prevention. The mandate of social reintegration is not a form of goodism towards the offender, but a prison political management in accordance with human rights, and it is also an effective and contrasted method of preventing a recurrence, a method of crime prevention. We must make a firm commitment to propose reasonable ways out of the current vicious circle of social exclusion, crime, imprisonment, exclusion. On this subject, I will finally refer to Euskadi. The transfer in prison matters was finally carried out not too long ago, and in Euskadi to implement this prison policy things are going to be done in a different way. Our approach, of course, is diametrically opposed to yours. We want to promote a system of criminal execution that does not increase marginalization or chronize the factors that lead to the criminalization of most of the people who populate our prisons, a prison model based on the principle of the dignity of the person and focused on the prisoners who emphasize social reintegration and promote restorative practices. We advocate, for example, to define specific socio-health protocols and itineraries, establishing therapeutic processes at the community level; to develop adequate spaces for coexistence and social reintegration, for equality between women and men as a vertebrate axis, for prison institutions free from discrimination on the grounds of gender, sexual diversity and free macho violence; for the release of severely ill persons with mental disorders and for the release of older inmates or with sufficient degree of punishment, for a model of psychosocial rehabilitation in terms of mental health and for additions that are alternative to the current one, taking into account the specific needs of women prisoners with children. And I could go on, but I don't because I don't have time. These are serious proposals for prison policy. Yours, gentlemen of the right, is criminal populism. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-30-CD211130.u168	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Fernández Hernández has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-30-CD211130.u169	Thank you, President. Alex was nine years old. I can imagine any day of little Alex. I imagine his mother or father waking up little Alex every morning and saying, "Come on, Alex, you have to go to school. I imagine little Alex still asleep, dressing up almost for the inertia of the daily routine. I imagine little Alex having breakfast with his parents his cookies, his glass of milk, his fruit juice and while watching absorbed in the small television that has in the kitchen the first cartoons of the morning. And his parents would ask him, "How do you have the day, Alex?" And he would answer, without turning away the gaze of the TV: Good. I imagine little Alex taking his backpack and going out on the street on his way to school. He'll get to the school door and a teacher will take the temperature, put a little gel in his hands, and he'll say, "Come on, Alex, let's go for the day!" I imagine little Alex in class trying to learn more and, after a hard day of school, go back in the afternoon; get home, throw the backpack on the bed, snack quickly to go out on the street again to play with friends. One day he would play tennis, another day he would play football or another day he would just sit on the park bench near his home. He'd talk about his things with his friends, maybe they'd wonder what they'd do when they're older. I imagine little Alex finishing the day by having dinner with his parents before getting carried away by his dreams. One day after another this could be the routine of little Alex, a routine that he will no longer live because he arrived on 28 October and a sick and criminal followed his life, a sick and criminal who should never have left prison. [[The lady]] Minister Marlaska has not only not guaranteed Alex's life, but his open-door prison policy has led to this happening, and in the worst possible way: economically encouraging prison directors to take more third degrees. Minister Marlaska has failed little Alex's family. Minister Marlaska must assume his political responsibility to the parents of little Alex in these events. This Congress has the opportunity to reprimand Minister Marlaska, and then would show that he has some humanity and dignity left. But you can also decide not to reproach Minister Marlaska, and then you would prove that you no longer have any humanity or dignity. In any case, the decision will be made by this Congress, the truth is that Alex's death will haunt Minister Marlaska until the last of his days. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-30-CD211130.u170	Thank you, Mr. Fernández. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr José Vélez has the floor for the Socialist Parliamentary Group. [[Rumors]] Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-30-CD211130.u171	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, good night now. I'm going to allow myself a first precision, Mrs. Olona. It's not a privilege to live where you live. This humble deputy lives in Carabanchel, on a 76-meter floor, but my privilege is to be able to put a voice here to those people whom you consider to be a multicultural tern. That's my privilege. [[Applauds]] Also go ahead the affection and solidarity of this group with the family of little Alex. But we understand that the best tribute to your family is not to make the political use you are making. That's the best tribute. [[Applauds]] And now let's go to what we're dealing with, the second act of political funambulism, of jumping into the void, and again compete with the extreme right and the extreme right to see who gets the medal. Let me give you a little tip: with velcro, which then with the stroke of the chest they are also pinched. [[Applauds]] The explanatory statement, which affects the Minister's lack of sensitivity, with his explanations and obscurantism, is full of falsehoods. Some have already been dismantled by other speakers, by Mr Legarda and my colleague, Manuel Arribas, and in this sense I do not think it is worth further deepening, because they lie knowingly that they lie. Besides, if it wasn't enough with that, we'd get ETA out. Today, by the way, we have heard nothing about Venezuela, and it is to be thanked. [[Applauds]] When the smallum is examined in detail, the surprise is already capitalized. They propose a number of regulatory changes that could be understood to be aimed at avoiding discretion in the Ministry of the Interior, which does not occur, but good; they would only have to activate legislative communications, and never through a motion. They also lie about the so-called policy of third-degree incentives when it is suggested that it is paid for the concession, which is rigorously false, and so is credited by the order of services when it states that the incentive of this modality is provided exclusively for terms of imprisonment of less than one year, and always with the unanimous support of the treatment boards. And most surprising: when they seem to be expressing concern about the conditions of prison employees, a concern that this Government shares, we find that they have nothing to worry about. When they left the Government, they left a decimated staff, yet since the Government of Pedro Sánchez and Minister Marlaska in the Interior, 4193 new officials have been incorporated. And, by the way, the conditions of the facilities, which were in a deplorable state when they left the Government, have also improved. As for the Corps Act, which seems to have also concerned them at some point, or the Statute of Prison Officers, I can tell you that it is being dealt with and that there is a first draft of strictly prison matters. That is so, we trust that with the repeal of the reform of the Citizens' Security Act, where, by the way, a final provision is included for them to be considered agents of the authority, they will agree and vote in favour. But this initiative, which is regrettable in its wording since it lacks legal rigour - and, by the way, institutionality, nothing - seems inappropriate for the main party of the opposition, because in a crude way what they claim, involving it as they involve it, is to use the pain of an execrable crime for partisan purposes, to mix it in their attempt to revive the memory of a terrorism to which Spanish society and the rule of law have defeated and, finally, to defame the good name of the Minister of the Interior, as well as the prison institutions themselves and the officials, who are used as a shield to support this motion. In short, we will vote against it. And from this Socialist Parliamentary Group we once again express our unequivocal support for the minister and encourage him to continue his efforts to improve security as a public service, which some do not understand. Thank you very much, President. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-30-CD211130.u172	Thank you very much, Mr. José. Ladies and gentlemen, we vote in three minutes. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-30-CD211130.u173	Ladies and gentlemen, we voted first of all to take into consideration the proposal by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group for the memory, dignity and reparation of all the victims of terrorism. The vote will begin. [[Pausa.-Some honourable Members enter the Chamber and occupy their seats.-Protests]] Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet. [[Strong Protests]] Ladies and gentlemen, quiet, please. This vote has already taken place... [[Some Members: No! No! No!]] This vote has already taken place and the Chamber is open to vote. [[Strong Protests]] Ladies and gentlemen, the result of the first vote is the following: [[Strong protests.-Mr. Casero Ávila utters words that are not perceived]] Mr. Casaro Ávila, he called the order. [[Protests]] Quiet, please. The voting was as follows: 317 plus 6 telematics votes, 323; 142 plus 1 telematics votes, 143; 174 plus 5 telematics votes, 179; abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-30-CD211130.u174	The proposal for a law is not taken into consideration.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-30-CD211130.u175	We shall proceed to vote on the text of the non-legislative proposals, as agreed in the course of the debate. No law proposal of the Republican Parliamentary Group, on the increase of the game tax and the limitation of its advertising. It shall be put to the vote on its terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 326 votes in favour, 33 against, 202 abstentions, 91.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-30-CD211130.u176	The non-legislative proposal is rejected. - the Basque Parliamentary Group, on the measures to be implemented for the improvement of the Santander-Bilbao railway line. [[EAJ-PNV]] [[File number 162/000852]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-30-CD211130.u177	No law proposal of the Basque Parliamentary Group, on the measures to be implemented for the improvement of the Santander-Bilbao railway line. [[EAJ-PNV]] We are voting in the terms of the compromise amendment tabled by the Socialist, Popular parliamentary groups in Congress, Basque and Mixed, Mr Mazón Ramos. [[EAJ-PNV]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 326 votes in favour, 302 against, 13 abstentions, 11.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-30-CD211130.u178	The non-legislative proposal was approved.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-30-CD211130.u179	We continue with the votes on the motions following urgent appeals. Motion for a resolution by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Botran Pahissa, on infrastructure, increased emissions and the fight against global warming in the Catalan countries. We are voting in the terms resulting from the incorporation of the amendment tabled by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in common. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 320 votes in favour, 54 against, 263 abstentions, 3.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-30-CD211130.u180	The motion is rejected. - the VOX Parliamentary Group, on the measures to be taken by the Government in the field of penitentiary policy. [[File number 173/00109]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-30-CD211130.u181	Motion for an urgent appeal by the VOX Parliamentary Group on measures to be taken by the Government in the area of prison policy. It shall be put to the vote on its terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 325 votes in favour, 49 against, 273 abstentions, 3.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-30-CD211130.u182	The motion is rejected. - the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress, to report on penitentiary policy. [[File number 173/000110]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-30-CD211130.u183	Motion resulting urgent inquiry by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, to report on prison policy. It shall be put to the vote on its terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 324 votes in favour, 140 against, 184.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-30-CD211130.u184	The motion is rejected. The meeting was suspended until 9 a.m. tomorrow. Good night. It was eight and fifty-five minutes of the night.
