ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-13-CD210513.u1	The meeting was resumed. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. We begin with the debate on the opinion of the Committee of Inquiry concerning the accident at the JK5022 flight from Spanair. I would remind you that, at the end of the debate on this item, the opinion will be voted on separately. Mrs Pita Cárdenes has the floor for the opinion.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-13-CD210513.u2	President, ladies and gentlemen, good morning to you all. After more than twelve years since the accident JK5022 at Adolfo Suárez Madrid Barajas airport; after two legislatures in which we have been working in this Commission with the aim of investigating and determining causes and responsibilities; after forty-seven appearances, thirty meetings and carrying out a road ahead, during and after the accident that allowed us - as it was - to open the angular, to check the incidents and the failures that have occurred; after the study of the extensive documentation received and claimed, to visit the airport facilities and the site of the accident, today we finally bring to this plenary for approval - we really hope and trust that it will be unanimously - the opinion of the Commission of Spanair which takes in relation to this tremendous tragedy eleven conclusions and thirteen recommendations that your gentlemen have had the opportunity to read. The Commission's action has been carried out with the will to assume the utmost rigour and commitment, evaluating sincerely and, therefore, exposing our own vulnerability as public authorities in an exercise of honesty that citizens undoubtedly demand and expect from all of us. Because, ladies and gentlemen, the accident that occurred on 20 August 2008 on Spanair's JK 5022 flight resulted from a series of failures that combined one after the other led to the system's security barriers to fail as a whole. And of course it would be comfortable and simplifying to attribute to fatality or chance the temporary coincidence of all these judgments, but it would not only be an irresponsibility unforgivable on our part that would wipe out the crime, but would target us at its most possible repetition. The clear conclusion after the investigation is that the system failed not only on the bad day of the accident but in a pre- and post-accident manner. Therefore, those responsible for establishing, evaluating, verifying, correcting the weaknesses of the system, with the means that the State has put at their disposal, must assume their responsibilities and in this case we speak clearly of political responsibilities, public responsibilities. Because with safety in general and in air transport in particular in the design of the systematic elements of this security, the rulers have to deploy formal and material care as guarantors of the citizenship of the security protocols and of course provide their effective compliance. The responsibilities of the rulers in a democracy are not merely formal. This Commission, ladies and gentlemen, points out responsibilities, does not charge crimes because it does not have the powers to do so, and that falls within another area which is certainly not the legislative one. We cannot fail to stress also with the same intensity the harmful role of the aircraft manufacturer, the Boeing entity, because the model of the sinister aircraft, the MD82, had already had in other aircraft, flights and companies failures in the TOWS alarm and they did not want to prove the cases nor to collaborate with this Commission of Inquiry nor in general with the entire judicial process. Undoubtedly, an eloquent silence, but in any case, it would be necessary to insist through the judicial sphere to clarify what caused this ruling in the TOWS alarm and its connection with the R2-5 relay. Because, ladies and gentlemen, if that alarm had worked, the 'no go' had jumped, that is, the plane would not have taken off and the catastrophe would have been avoided. I would also like to point out to the insurance company Mapfre the treatment given to the victims. According to the managers who appeared before this Committee of Inquiry, they dedicated a 3% share of the $1.5 billion policy to repair the damage caused to the victims, I repeat, 3% of $1.5 billion. It does not seem reasonable, proportionate and therefore it is acceptable for an air accident in Spain to be subject to the traffic accident ban. It is enough to see the comparisons of premiums paid in one and the other means of transport. We are talking about this in the tenth recommendation of this opinion. We have also recommended that the Commission's contents and results be forwarded to the Office of the Prosecutor for the purpose that the Office itself deems appropriate in the light of what has been done. Now I would really like to thank all the honourable Members who have worked on this Commission for their work and good work: my dear Joan Olòriz, Sebastián Franquis, Saúl Ramírez, Carmen Valido, Miguel Vila, Mari Carmen Hernández Bento, TomásFole, Ana Oramas, Irene Rivera, Pedro Quevedo, Alberto Rodríguez, Juan Fuentes, Ariagona González, Andres Lorite, Manuel Mestre, César Ramos, Ferran Bel, Fernando Navarro, Íñigo Barandiaran, José Ignacio Echániz, Guillermo Mariscal, Tamara Raya,Rafael Mayoral, Cristina Esteban, María Muñoz, Joan Nuet and Inés Granollers. Thank you, colleagues, for the work and for the work. I would also like to thank our lawyer, Pedro Peña, for his closeness, affection, consensus and dissent. But, above all, today it's time, today I want to thank you for the unpayable work of the JK 5022 Flight Affected Association. You have, with the inconceivable patience of disenchantment, more than twelve years of struggle demanding and demanding truth, justice and reparation, without resentment but with memory and without losing hope. Allow me to convey to you my admiration and my pride as a canary to all of you. This Commission and all its members have tried to live up to our obligation as representatives of our people, that is, to represent the pain, misunderstanding, indignation and search for the truth by all those who have suffered and continue to suffer the consequences of this tremendous tragedy. It has been a unanimous desire to try to live up to that obligation to the extent that we can serve to restore you peace and soul, which in so many ways damaged that fateful August 20, 2008. And I'm done, President. From this rostrum I would like on behalf of all of you to ask forgiveness, forgiveness for everything. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-13-CD210513.u3	Thank you, Mrs. Pita. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs Cepeda. The opinion was put to the vote by the Socialist Group. I have the floor on behalf of this group, Mr Ramos Esteban.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-13-CD210513.u4	Thank you, President. Many times I have intervened from this atrium at this time, but I will admit that this may be one of the most special for the responsibility we have to do well. Today the goal is not to show the discrepancies with the rest of the parties, it is not to get the easy applause of ours; today in our mind it has to be with the victims of that accident and their families, who have been waiting for answers for many years. This debate is being followed closely and we hope to be able to live up to it. Today, as I say, it has to be a different debate, a debate that is not bronchus, like the ones that usually take place in this House. Today I was told by a taxi driver coming here: they have turned Congress into a permanent show. And today we can't do that, in honor of the victims. That is why I will not charge against the rest of the parties because I believe it would be disrespectful to the victims. I would like to acknowledge the PSOE de Canarias and its president, Ángel Víctor Torres, because they were the ones who pushed and allowed us to be talking here today about an opinion from a Commission, which was pushed and created thanks to the Socialist Party. It was the PSOE who allowed his vote to go ahead and that is why we are here today. I would also like to acknowledge the victims and their families, because they are the ones who have been waiting for answers for twelve years that they did not get in the usual process. The victims and their association have gained international recognition and we must thank them for the work they have done and ask them to continue with it. When such an accident occurs, there are two things to be made clear: first, to draw conclusions from what happened and to put in place measures to ensure that it does not happen again, and secondly, to resolve the responsibilities of the accident. Therefore, two mechanisms are automatically activated: first, the Air Accident Investigation Commission, a technical commission that proposes the measures and identifies the causes, and second, the judicial process to resolve the responsibilities. When this is not done properly there can be doubts about what happened and then a parliamentary committee of inquiry is activated, which is what we want to close here today. And I wonder: have we managed to draw any more conclusions than the Committee on the Investigation of Technical Accidents did? If we haven't made it, in part I think we'll have failed. But today, as I said before, we have to focus on families and victims so that we never forget and that they are always in memory. As I say, the commission of inquiry was created with the support of the PSOE for the support and reparation of the victims, to clarify the facts that occurred and to determine the best teachings so that this drama never happens again. That is why we have an important task and as the Constitutional Court said in the judgment - and the lawyer points out in his report that all the members of the Commission have - a parliamentary commission of inquiry cannot declare responsibilities. Counsel is clear in his report. And why can't the PSOE vote in favour of the opinion as it comes here? For two reasons: because it does not have legal guarantees, as the lawyer pointed out, and because, without legal guarantees, we can adopt here an opinion that remains open and that the victims continue to have in their heads that this issue has not been closed. The lawyer insists on the certainty that there are two points in the opinion, which comes here today as such, which can violate fundamental rights and we, like PSOE, have always been very respectful of legal rules because that guarantees the rights of all. The counsel's report clearly states that it contains two provisions that are legally questionable and advises their deletion and alternative. Today I stand for the PSOE's particular vote in this House, a particular vote that tries to correct and give strength to the opinion that comes out here. It is not an amendment to the whole, it is a text that seeks to correct the legal doubts that the opinion may have if we do not approve the particular vote. Because, moreover, the lawyer clearly points out that as far as the opinion is concerned, it may result in a violation of fundamental rights and public freedoms and that the problem of ignoring it is to ignore a ruling of the Constitutional Court. That is why today the PSOE defends a particular vote. In addition, there is one point in the opinion that goes much further and extends an indiscriminate suspicion to all those present, that is to say to the forty-seven people who appeared here. That is why we believe that, if we do not correct it, we have the problem of the Constitutional Court correcting something that Members do not have the capacity to correct here or that we do not want to correct here. Let no one be mistaken: the PSOE's particular vote does not mean that the rest of the opinion is not supported by the victims. We are very clear that the responsibility of those who are here is to draw an opinion with the maximum possible votes, which represents everyone and which allows the victims to continue working, to continue with their lives and to definitively forget this drama that they have lived for many years. The Socialist Group has worked during this time to achieve consensus and unanimity and we have done so by tabling amendments to each of the points we thought could be improved. Some of the amendments have been adopted and corrected, but there are some issues that we believe need to be corrected to give it strength. I would like to thank the work of all the members of the Commission who have worked day and night to try to resolve this as best as possible and as soon as possible. That is why we would also like to highlight a number of aspects which appear in the opinion which the Socialist Group fully agrees with. We believe it is essential to create a multimodal accident investigation body, as proposed by the Association of Victims and which the Spanish Government, the current socialist government, has already pushed to make it a reality as soon as possible. A body that has to comply with all guarantees of independence and with all guarantees of autonomy, we believe that it is essential. Every time there is an accident we cannot afford to have doubts that the results and conclusions that are drawn do not comply with everything they have to comply with. I end up as I started, thanking the victims for their work, reminding everyone here that they always have to be in our memory and asking the political parties not to use their situation as a partisan, because we would be doing a weak favor. The victims are not from any party, the victims are from his family and his memory. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-13-CD210513.u5	Thank you very much, Mr. Ramos. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Quevedo Iturbe has the floor, first of all, for the Joint Parliamentary Group to fix positions.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-13-CD210513.u6	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning, everyone. This is a special day, almost thirteen years later, 154 people who have died and 18 people who still have serious injuries need to be reflected in this House today. And I believe this House has the responsibility, which the Commission has assumed, to give a serious and clear answer to the pain of so many people. The Commission's work - the President has pointed out very well - has been intense. I highly recommend reading the proceedings, not just the opinion, because I think they make it clear what everyone's behaviour has been. There we have had respectful and collaborative interventions and we have also had distant, leftover, even chulesque, interventions that really do not help or have benefited the image of those people who have done so and what they represent. It is necessary to recognise the work of all the people who have been to this Commission, and also the work of those outside, in particular, the Victims' Association, who must be recognized as an unusual tenacity. Therefore, we now have a responsibility not to defraud so many people and not to defraud ourselves. This is not about revenge against anyone, it is about making it clear that this is not resolved by blaming the dead, by blaming those who died, in particular the pilots. This cannot be solved in this way, because it is not fair, it serves no purpose and because, moreover, it seriously distorts reality. And it's not true, nobody's saying here that air safety in Spain is insufficient air safety, nobody's alarming anyone, and fortunately there hasn't been an accident like that again in all these years, but it's true that on that fateful day a series of circumstances were accumulated that should never have happened. For this reason, recommendations are made regarding the instruments of prevention and analysis and control of air damage, but also an appeal is made to the Prosecutor's Office because there are certain behaviours that we believe should be studied. It is not reasonable the failure of the famous TOWS - already everyone knows that device - because it had already had previous difficulties models like this, since if that device had worked it would have put a no go' so big that it would have prevented the takeoff. That the company responsible for this has allowed itself the luxury of not answering this Commission is something that we cannot afford and is therefore one of the outstanding issues. It is clear that the victims cannot be treated - as has already been said here - as if this were a mere traffic accident. It is not possible that the policy with which this company was insured has spent only 3% of the total to repair the rights of the persons concerned. I believe that in this situation we must adopt the opinion, which is perfectable, as everything else, but what would be desirable would be for us all to support this opinion, because it is not about taking revenge on anyone or revenge on anyone, it is about recognizing, doing justice, trying to make a move, for all people who will never be able to live peacefully after knowing that this accident would have been preventable under other circumstances. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-13-CD210513.u7	Thank you, Mr. Quevedo. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the same parliamentary group, I have the floor, Mrs Oramas González-Moro.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-13-CD210513.u8	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, on 28 August 2008, flight JK5022 crashed at Madrid airport. The management of the crisis was a disaster, the treatment and information to the infamous relatives, the assistance to the victims during and after humiliating, and the investigation, for using a soft, irresponsible term. A year later, in November 2009, the victims first entered this Congress to meet with me. Today I would like to pay tribute to them, who during these years have struggled not only to clarify the truth, but to ensure that it does not happen again and, above all, that the victims of the future do not go through what they suffered. There were a total of 154 dead and 18 survivors, of whom 80 were canaries. For them and for their families today it is repaired knowing the truth and, above all, in honor of their memory. Today I want to name mothers such as Angels, Estrella, Pepi, Julia, Isabel, Paqui, Mapi or Soledad; parents such as Vicente, Luis, Carlos,Santiago, Manolo or Marcos; children such as Máximo, Marta, Laura or Juan; pilots, Antonio García Luna and Javier Mulet Pujol, who were accused of being responsible for the accident; the pilot's father, Víctor GarcíaGarcía, whom I knew and who asked for forgiveness of the victims because he believed his son was guilty; the survivor Rafael Vidal Rodríguez, who thanks to the association was able to recover, because the insurance company did not act; the first professionals who arrived at the accident site and on behalf of all of them I want to name the Summa doctor, Nicolás Riera López and the AENA firefighter, Francisco Martínez Alvarado, as well as the civilian guard Luis Rodríguez Case - none of them were interviewed in the investigation of the Ciaac that was the order of the Ciaac and then the supervision of the Laiacs, who were there. Finally, today we will adopt the opinion determining the responsibilities and, above all, it makes clear who was not responsible. That's fundamental to aviation security, and a canary tells you. But this would not have been possible without the president of the association Pilar Vera Palmés, whose tireless struggle, leaving his life and spirit for more than thirteen years, has been decisive. In 2010 he managed to amend the European Regulation, but above all that in 2013 this country will have a Plan of assistance for victims of air accidents, thanks to Minister Ana Pastor. Today I am excited because, for the first time, I will be able to go to the anniversary, to which I have always been invited, on August 20, and I will be able to look them in the eye. It was a chain of mistakes and today, thanks to this opinion, let us hope that it will not happen again, for those who are not, for those who are and for those who will be in the future. Thanks to the association and the political forces that are going to approve this opinion and, above all, I would like to address - and it has ended - Meri Pita, the president: you have been very brave, I thank Podemos that despite the pressures this opinion has been able to come out. I tell you as a canary, as a fellow Member, and I wanted it to be reflected in the Journal of Sessions as well. Thank you, Meri, you were very brave. Thank you, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-13-CD210513.u9	Thank you, Mrs. Oramas. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Barandiaran Benito has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-13-CD210513.u10	Good morning. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we are not only looking at the opinion of a Commission of Inquiry - because a Commission of Inquiry has a specific object which has already been prefixed by the Constitutional Court in its doctrine, such as the investigation of facts and the analysis of responsibilities and, where appropriate, the avoidance of consequences - which, moreover, is not only because of its particularity, its speciality and its uniqueness, and unfortunately, like others, it has victims who must also attend to such opinions, but the problem is that the attention to victims in such opinions is done as with victims in other kinds of events, and innocent people suffer as a result of events that they did not have to suffer. Truth, justice and reparation are pointed out as trunk elements of this possibility of action where there are victims, and here too we find ourselves as in those cases where truth and justice are the heritage of the jurisdiction of the judiciary because it exists only as truth, it is only justice that points out the judiciary, that which points out the courts. But in this case it is also a matter of repairing in part the situation resulting from that JK 5022 accident. It happens, in my view, that the reparation that we can achieve to give those who are in the exercise of this activity is precisely to issue an opinion unanimously, to agree, to give to those victims a hug that tries to be reparatory. We have the problem that this repair hug is not given to them completely when, as in this case, there is no unanimity. It will be for different reasons, I share the views that have been expressed by the President to the representative of the Socialist Party on the intentions and manifestations of how to act in this type of committee, but I do have the impression that we have not been diligent enough to reach conclusions in this Commission and in this opinion. That is why, firstly, I want to do two things, first, to give all the victims a huge hug and, secondly, to apologize because we have not been able to reach an agreement. But there is also an important issue that I think is also repairing, and it is our truth, each of them. I told the president of the association, to Pilar Vera, and I repeat it again from this rostrum: I believe that lomejor What I can do is to tell you my truth, what I really believe has happened and what the opinion should have said. There are many things, I share almost all the assessments that have been made about the opinion and also the discrepancies that I am going to maintain. That's why I want to tell you a few things, too. I will highlight some aspects of the opinion, both on which I agree and on which I do not, precisely because I believe that I must tell the truth not so much to you but to the victims. In the first place, I think it is a good thing to highlight the proposal to set up a multimodal body for the investigation and prevention of accidents involving multiple victims, because it is not only timely but appropriate for the purpose of their greater specialization, but it did not participate in the suggestion regarding the lack of training and independence of the components of existing bodies dedicated to this research function which have already done so in this case. I also understand the need, above all, to empower the investigative mechanisms not only with the characteristics of independence and objectivity that have already been preached, but also with the resources, because it has happened to us with this case that to whom almost all of us consider primarily responsible, which is to the Boeing company, it has come out free, and not only that, but that it has come out free of its formal refusal to provide the information required by this Commission. That is why I understand that some means must be used to ensure that operators involved in such events are not able to avoid the obligation to appear before these or other types of organs, or to omit information that might be relevant to avoid the repetition of any claims. I also believe that the proposal for the revision of protocols on both safety, maintenance and preventive air safety actions and those mentioned above, which mentions the opinion and which have highlighted some others, is positive. Apart from the debate on its effectiveness, what has proved to be essential is that there is a constant updating, review and verification of its effectiveness. Reference has also been made to another issue, that of insurance, which is unacceptable from any point of view. This is an urgent matter in which this House, the legislator, can and should easily intervene. I do not share the idea of the independence of this investigating authority in the prevention of accidents, which is not sustained within the administrative doctrine, and I regard as wrong even in law the claim to place under the umbrella of Congress, which does not correspond to any supervisory work in this regard, because I understand that the independence that is preached, which must exist, has nothing to do with the organic and functional dependence, but with the characterization of its functioning and the guarantees in the performance of its members. I also disagree with recommendation 8 here on the same grounds of independence or not, and I will also agree with Mr Ramos's intervention - and therefore I do not want to extend - by pointing out that I openly disagree with the ninth and tenth recommendations on the same grounds of guarantees of fundamental rights as indicated by the PSOE's particular vote. I just have to give the victims my hug and my solidarity - I would have liked it to have been unanimous - and to Parliament a thought: we must be able to manage this type of action not only with the traditional committees of inquiry. The existence of victims characterizes this issue sufficiently to understand that it must be produced through other formal mechanisms. But, above all, I would like to point out again a fundamental fact, and it is that the restorative embrace that this Parliament can offer is given when unanimity is offered. We will have to try again in the future to bring these situations about in such a unanimous way that it required action like this. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-13-CD210513.u11	Thank you very much, Mr Barandiaran. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Muñoz Vidal has the floor. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-13-CD210513.u12	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Truth, justice, reparation and memory. This concludes the opinion drawn up by the Committee of Inquiry into the Spanair accident. From here my memory and that of all the Members of my parliamentary group to all the victims. Also a warm embrace to his relatives, who still suffer from what happened that fateful day of August 2008. Truth, justice, reparation and memory. In a better or worse way, we are confident that we have contributed to those four words and that they will be reflected in our work and in this opinion that we are talking about today. Allow me, too, as has already been done in this rostrum, to remind all those colleagues who have worked in the Committee of Inquiry over these years, for their efforts during these three long years. We will vote for this opinion precisely because it fulfils these fundamental tasks in a democracy, because it helps to understand what has failed and what could be done better and because it involves a memory exercise so that the memory of the victims never fades into oblivion. However, I have to say that our vote in favour of this opinion is a critical yes with several points in this work, and let us get this straight. We fully agree on the need to understand what has happened from a broad perspective. If we want to prevent events like this from happening again in the future, it is necessary to draw lessons from this memory, as I have already said. In our view, and from the utmost respect, this opinion leads to two fundamental errors. The first is to make recommendations a very secondary part of the document. There are valuable ideas in the opinion that are worth discussing and that can help improve the air safety of our country. However, these recommendations appear to be an addition to a different objective, which should not be the main objective of this Commission: the issuing of a parallel judgment, which also contravenes basic elements of our legal system. This, ladies and gentlemen, is the second problem or mistake, from my point of view, in which the opinion is concerned. It is argued that certain persons who held positions of responsibility at the time of the accident have political responsibilities that must be cleared up. I want to stop here for a moment, because, of course, it is necessary to broaden the focus and see what else we can and must demand from representatives of popular sovereignty. One of the basic principles of our liberal democracies is accountability, which is basically articulated through voting, but also that of clear and transparent reporting of government action. However, at the moment when those political responsibilities which the opinion speaks of extend beyond this, we can irreparably undermine the mechanisms of control of the power of our rule of law, among which, fundamentally, is the judiciary, with firm rulings already handed down. Therefore, since the beginning of the work of this Commission, we have worked tirelessly to make this a healthy exercise in which we learn to improve. In addition, the opinion is in full conflict with the jurisprudence of the Constitutional Court. It is legitimate that we believe that more could be done by the authorities in charge of the administrations on 20 August 2008. However, as recognized by the Constitutional Court, the presumption of innocence must not be given only in the procedural sphere, but also includes the right not to be considered a participant in an unlawful act or an administrative offence. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, the point made by those responsible for the accident must invariably lead to the demolition of the presumption of innocence and contribute to the injury of their right to honour. Preserving liberal democracy requires pointing out the problems that exist even in the most just causes. Yes to memory, truth and reparation, essential pillars of a healthy society that reminds its victims and works to prevent such events from happening again, but I also know how to respect justice, maintain our faith in the separation of powers and preserve the right to honour, a sine qua non requirement of our status as citizens of this democracy. Let's always remember that. Let's always remember that. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you very much, President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-13-CD210513.u13	Thank you very much, Mrs Muñoz. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Granollers Cunillera has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-13-CD210513.u14	Thank you, President. Good morning, deputies and deputies. Before we begin, from our group we offer our deepest condolences to the families of the 154 people who died in this tragic accident and all our support for the 18 survivors. We are entering this Commission with the witness of our colleague, former Member of this House, Joan Olòriz; a Commission which has seen two legislatures pass without being able to deliver the opinion. We have been an active part of this Committee of Inquiry, attending the more than forty appearances held since February 2018, meeting with technicians and studying the abundant documentation, reports and work contributed. We had the objective of investigating what happened, but especially why it happened. The initial opinion seemed very correct to us, but, in our view, it was not all inclusive, part of the information was missing, and for this reason we tabled amendments with the intention of helping to make it clearer and more truthful. We strive to be the voice of the families of this tragic accident, which in a moment broke their lives. For our group it is vitally important to clarify the chain of errors that caused this serious accident on 20 August 2008 almost thirteen years ago; a chain of technical and human errors that, with this opinion, we should avoid repeating, at the same time as repairing the memory of these 154 victims, so that their death was not in vain. But, while all this has happened, we have observed astonishment how Members of this House are only concerned with saving the opinion. Are they not aware that the opinion is intended to the contrary? The opinion is intended to save lives, ladies and gentlemen. You don't understand anything. They are the best heirs of the 78's regime, as they are only concerned with covering up their mistakes. They do not care about people's lives, they only care about the rotten foundations where they have built their state and that they do not collapse. You are trying to avoid and cover up the events that happened that fateful day; it doesn't matter if people's lives are at stake, because you haven't even thought about repairing the memory of these victims; you've caught a broom and wanted to cover up all your mistakes under a carpet. A few days ago my colleague Gabriel Rufián, compared his democracy with a building and called it a shambles; today it is more demonstrated than ever. Right now, here should be comrade Joan Josep Nuet, whom from here I send a hug from our entire parliamentary group, but, you see, he cannot be here today. [[applause]] You know why? Because they disabled him, they disabled him for doing politics and allowing a debate. You don't want to save the opinion, at least you don't want to save it at your leisure to cover up your ineptitude. They save the walls of their chabola, build strong and lasting foundations and, above all, that the opinions of this magnitude be concise, clear, transparent, technical and truthful, because their result must contribute to saving lives. Clearly, we are not going to accept the PSOE's private vote. If we have to choose between saving future lives or the honor of responsible politicians, there is no doubt: for our group it will always be life. From this rostrum, he ended up sending a strong hug to all the family members, and I congratulate them, yes, I congratulate them on the persistence in investigating the events that occurred that tragic day in the accident of the JK5022 flight from Spanair. Thanks to this persistence, this opinion is adopted today, which, as we have said, must save lives. For this reason, from Esquerra Republicana we are deeply grateful to you for all your contribution to clarifying this chain of errors. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-13-CD210513.u15	For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the Union Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, I have the floor Mr Mayoral Perales. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-13-CD210513.u16	Thank you, Madam President. Firstly, I would like to acknowledge the work done by the JK 5022 Association of Affected Persons. I believe that it has been an example of commitment and a fundamental example of work for the common good; a work that has gone to all places where it was possible to remove all obstacles so that an accident like this could not be repeated again, both in our country and at international level. I believe that recognition is deserved in a society in which the individual interests are often simply valued. People putting their time, their effort and their commitment to the common good is something that representatives of popular sovereignty must recognize, because it makes us a better democratic society. I believe, modestly, that coming to this point and coming out of this opinion is also a recognition of all the work that has been done all this time, a work for the improvement of regulations, a work for the improvement of protocols, a work for the protection of the people concerned, a work for accompanying in battles with companies that are unqualified. During the Commission we were able to see, among other things, the appearance of the representative of the insurer Mapfre, and I think that all the people who attended that appearance have had a very bad time. And we're having a really bad time because we understand that insurers have economic interests, but they have social obligations, they have social obligations. Perhaps the hardest time was when he was asked what was the mechanism of improvement to be able to protect the victims and the people affected by such accidents, and he told us that the best way to speed up compensation and protection for the people affected was to charge the public compensation fund. I think it was an insult not only to the people concerned, but fundamentally to our people. The insurers, at the time of the occurrence of the claims, have an obligation to protect the persons affected by this situation, it is their responsibility. This, moreover, brings to mind the need to reflect on the doctrine of the Supreme Court in reference to such accidents. We cannot be a country that does not apply the doctrine of the European Union in this matter. It cannot be that the Supreme Court, once again, is located outside the doctrine of the European Union. We have seen that they have done so over and over again with the issue of mortgages and we have seen again how it continues to be done in this type of matter. When we talk about being a European country, it means that when there are regulations that allow for better protection of people, it is the duty of all and of all the powers of the State to apply them. I believe that this is not a minor issue in order to be able to face many of the responsibilities that the State still has with regard to many people. Proceedings are still pending in the Supreme Court for compensation and protection of the persons concerned. Our country has to live up to Europe and be able to apply that European doctrine which does not allow insurers to limit compensation to people who are affected by such accidents. Perhaps, for me, the most surprising thing in a democracy is that there is a multinational that is believed to be above the law, that does not have to account for its activity even if it has a serious impact on the population. And I'm talking about Boeing. I believe that the attitude taken by the Boeing company with regard to Spanish justice and cooperation with this Commission is absolutely unacceptable and must cause us to reflect on what are the control mechanisms vis-à-vis transnationals so that they cannot mock justice and mock popular sovereignty, as we have seen that Boeing has done in this case, avoiding all its responsibilities with regard to this matter and, in addition, creating indications that there were failures in this model of aircraft known in a preterious way to the lustful fact, which further aggravates the responsibility of this company. It is important for us to have been able to reach this end, because it was a compromise. It took three legislatures to finally get this opinion out, but, to be honest, it must be said that, at this point, something very important was also needed: the improvement of air safety mechanisms. We believe that this opinion contains important issues, such as the creation of the multimodal body, and something essential: the creation of this body of inspectors, which is capable of having sufficient autonomy and resources to be able to carry out the inspection tasks that guarantee air safety in our country, without interference from the airlines in issuing their own conclusions. Our group has tried to contribute as much as possible in order to be able to articulate the mechanisms of improvement that allow this type of situation not to be repeated again. I want to conclude as it began at the beginning. When difficult, hard situations exist, people who are able to overcome pain not to respond to their individual interests, but to try to seek the common good, to improve regulations, to improve protocols, to improve the means and to find the formula for these things not to be repeated need recognition. As representatives of popular sovereignty is the least we should do. In a democratic society, that people organize, associate and defend the common good is a heritage of the whole of democracy, of all and of all. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-13-CD210513.u17	Thank you very much, Mr. Mayoral. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Rodríguez Almeida has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-13-CD210513.u18	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, today is a very important day, not only for the families of the victims of the Spanair flight accident to Gran Canaria. There are many of us who in a more or less close way knew the 154 fatal victims and the 18 injured by the accident. That is why, as I said in my speech at the last Commission appearance, we were flying on that plane directly or indirectly. The plenary of this House approved the creation of the Commission of Inquiry on 6 February 2018, with the vote in favour of the majority of the House and the inexplicable abstention of the People's Parliamentary Group; in this XIV Legislature, it was approved, by assent, on 15 April 2020. Personally, I would have liked to know what would have been the meaning of the vote of the parliamentary groups. The three members of the VOX Parliamentary Group have endeavoured to ensure that the opinion that is presented today meets the objective of the Commission of Inquiry, which was, and I read literally: 'investigate and, where appropriate, determine the causes and responsibilities of the accident of flight JK5022 from Spanair on 20 August 2008, extract knowledge and recommendations to prevent future tragedies'. We have had important reasons to work with special effort. My partner, Esteban Calonje, spokesman for the VOX Parliamentary Group in the Commission of Inquiry, is the sister of the captain of the Air Force, Miguel AlejandroEsteban Calonje, who died on 4 May 2004 when the Mirage F1 crashed, and the lieutenant general of the Air Force, Manuel Mestre Barea, was at the time of the accident the head of the Air Force Command of the Canary Islands, and thanks to his discreet but valuable work, the Air Force made available the necessary means to accompany the families and the victims in the transfer to the airport of Gran Canaria with the greatest possible dignity, dignity that only our soldiers know how to provide ; dignity of which, unfortunately, I also witnessed when I received at the same airport in Gran Canaria the remains of my cousin, Eduardo Castillo Rodríguez, a student of the General Air Academy, who died on 26 April 2012 with his instructor, Captain Julio Castellón Bueno. [[applause]] As I said at the beginning of my speech, today is a very important day, especially for the families of all the victims of air accidents. To the victims today we dedicate our respectful memory, and to their families, the recognition of their pain and our effort to never again produce another similar catastrophe. [[Applauds]] Unfortunately, in this Committee of Inquiry, too, they have established a health cord against VOX, so that our amendments to the opinion do not prosper. I take this opportunity to make known several aspects which we wanted to include in the opinion and which were excluded. First of all, we wanted to state that there is no record of records, records or certifications proving compliance with the general aviation emergency drills envisaged, allegedly, in the airport emergency plan for training, among others, rescue teams. Secondly, we have stated that the justification for more than fifteen minutes from the time of the accident and the activation of the alert by the controller responsible for air traffic control has not been established. Finally, there is also no record of the existence and state of use of emergency accesses to the airport's perimeter fence. I do not want to end my speech without thanking the members of other parliamentary groups who have also contributed to the clarification of the truth. Unfortunately, I cannot include - and I feel obliged to point out - the members of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, who have devoted their efforts to concealing those responsible for the safety of air navigation in Spain at the time of the accident. Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, they are the only ones who have withdrawn from the opinion adopted by the Commission by issuing a particular vote which is meaningless and legitimate, because it is based on the same arguments that you rejected in the vote on the amendments to the opinion. The VOX Parliamentary Group voted against the arguments of its particular vote because the ruling of the Constitutional Court on which it is based is a custom-made ruling to protect the Executive and issued by the Constitutional Court, which is not an impartial body, but a political body serving the People's Party and the PSOE, which have been dividing the election of its members for decades. [[Applauds]] They wanted to hide those responsible for air safety at the time of the accident, with Magdalena Álvarez at the head, as Minister of Development of the Government of José Luis Rodríguez Zapatero. Indeed, all those responsible, including the ex-minister, have called for the elimination of her name from the list of those responsible, based on a hypothetical violation of her right to honour. In this we agree; it is a disgrace to have participated in the government that has inflicted the most damage on Spain until Pedro Sánchez arrived in Moncloa. Among the applicants deserves a special mention Isabel Maestre Moreno, director of the State Aviation Safety Agency; before the accident established from Senasa the procedures for civil aviation and after the accident, as head of ESA, imposed on this agency the same line of action that had been brought from Senasa. In order to further complicate relations, the managing agency was Mapfre's tenant, which lack of independence between the supervisory body and airline insurers is detrimental to air accident victims. The Government must take the eleven conclusions and implement the nine recommendations of the opinion. Stop sharing responsibilities in the air sector among friends and activists of the PSOE, the tragedy we are experiencing must have consequences...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-13-CD210513.u19	Mr. Rodriguez, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-13-CD210513.u20	The recommendations of the opinion should be adopted as soon as possible. We owe it to the victims...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-13-CD210513.u21	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-13-CD210513.u22	...and their families. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause from Members of the VOX Parliamentary Group, put to the floor]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-13-CD210513.u23	Thank you very much, Mr. Rodriguez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Echaniz Salgado has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-13-CD210513.u24	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the first words that my group wishes to say in this plenary, as it has done during each session of the Commission created more than three years ago in this House, are of respect and consideration to the victims and their families; of recognition, sincere and profound memory to those who make sense of all the work done throughout this time. I wish it could be a balm of moral reparation and memory in the face of a tragedy that happened almost thirteen years ago, on August 13, 2008. This is therefore essentially a tribute to the 154 fatal victims, the wounded, the survivors and their families - who are certainly listening to us - and also an opportunity to always improve air transport, their safety and the management of incidents and accidents. It is also, to be fair, a tribute to the association of victims, now integrated in the International Federation of Air Accident Victims, for their work, for their treasure, for their courage. Ladies and gentlemen, the plenary of 6 February 2018 approved, with the Socialist Party's votes, a Commission of Inquiry concerning the disaster of Flight JK 5022 of Spanair for, through multiple appearances and in the light of the examination of abundant documentation, to improve knowledge on the subject and to establish useful conclusions and recommendations to avoid similar situations in the future and to prevent future accidents. Ladies and gentlemen, throughout this time an intensive work plan has been developed, almost fifty appearances have been held and multiple documents related to the events before the accident, during the accident and after the accident have been received and analysed. Security elements, emergency plans and victim assistance in a very relevant manner have been the subject of such work. Ladies and gentlemen, if in every accident, if in every disaster assistance to victims is an essential element, much more here. And if an accident and a disaster is the result of unfortunate setbacks and coincidences, the one that occupies us was undoubtedly the result of the alignment of different bound problems. Especially painful were the testimonies of some survivors and the images of dozens of ambulances in a row that could not enter the airport to help the victims. And if all the appearances were of interest and some especially revealing, there were also lamentable ones. In this regard, I would like to point out the inopportune, unfortunate and inappropriate appearance of the Socialist Minister responsible during the accident, Mrs Magdalena Álvarez, who, in an incredible boast of disrespect, used - as all honourable Members in the Commission will recall - her intervention, instead of giving explanations about her work, to give lessons of lack of modesty with an unusual and timeless impertinence, insolence, even arrogance. Ladies and gentlemen, the work done has made it possible to highlight the contributions of the International Federation of Air Accident Victims in ICAO, on issues as relevant as the obligation to know from the very first moment on the part of families the list of victims or the knowledge of the causes as well as other extremes of the accident before the general population, in order to avoid being aware of such painful circumstances through the media. This work has also made it possible to review the protocols on care for victims, which in this case were clearly improved. They also have the goodness to enhance preventive culture and in this sense it is interesting to approach the creation of new structures that promote from civil society the values of security and technological, formative and legislative approaches, for the search for excellence in these matters. Or the modernization of models and the organization of accident investigation systems, modifying what is necessary, giving them greater competence, greater means, greater resources, strengthening training and expertise, inspections, supervision, professionalization of functions and giving them greater independence from the necessary incompatibilities and the absolute absence of conflicts of interest. In this regard, the Government submitted to public consultation for fifteen days a preliminary draft law establishing an independent administrative authority for the technical investigation of accidents in the means of transport until 13 February of last year, 2020. It has therefore been a year and three months and it is a pity to have missed the opportunity for the Socialist Group to inform this House of where this bill is a year and three months later. Why is that lack of political will when we in this House have seen how certain laws were forced to be put into effect and passed? And if they were not in such a hurry, as it seems, why did they not wait for the conclusions of this Commission? Ladies and gentlemen, we also agree to declare 20 August a national day for air disaster victims and their families. And at this final stage I would like to take this opportunity to thank all the colleagues who have participated actively throughout this time in the Commission, Mrs Carmen Hernández Bento, Mr Tomás Fole, Mr Guillermo Mariscal and Mr Andrés Lorite. And I would also like to stress that an advanced society is one that learns from tragedies, recognizes and reminds its victims, takes care of its relatives and works to ensure that it never happens again. That is our obligation and that is where the People's Party will always be. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-13-CD210513.u25	Thank you very much, Mr. Echaniz. [[Applauds.-Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Ladies and gentlemen, we vote in five minutes. I remind you that you will only be able to vote from your seat, identified with your name on the screen, and I also remind you that those Members who have applied for the telematic vote cannot vote from your seat. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-13-CD210513.u26	Ladies and gentlemen, take your seats, please. We shall then proceed to vote in particular on the opinion of the Committee of Inquiry on the accident of flight JK5022 from Spanair, tabled by the Socialist Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 98 plus 240 telematics votes, 338; 58 plus 96 telematics votes, 154; against 40 plus 142 telematics votes, 182; abstentions, 2 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-13-CD210513.u27	The individual vote was therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-13-CD210513.u28	I should like to inform you that from 10:30 a.m. to 1 p.m. today, no-law proposals and motions, the opinion of the Committee of Inquiry, the validation or'derogation of the royal decree-laws, as well as their processing as draft laws, the Senate amendments, the opinions of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on international conventions and the amendment to the whole. All these matters will be put to the vote in the Chamber at the end of the sitting.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-13-CD210513.u29	We continue, ladies and gentlemen, with the point corresponding to the validation or repeal of royal decree-laws. First, there is the debate on the validation or repeal of Royal Decree-Law 6/2021 of 20 April, which provides for additional measures to support businesses and self-employed people affected by the COVID-19 pandemic. To present the royal decree-law, I have the floor, on behalf of the Government, the second Vice-President and Minister for Economic Affairs and Digital Transformation. [[Rumors]] I ask you, please, to remain silent and to occupy your seats as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-13-CD210513.u30	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, today I appear before the plenary of the House to present to validation Royal Decree-Law 6/2021 of 20 April, adopting complementary measures to support businesses and self-employed people affected by the KOVID-19 pandemic. As you all know, this rule amends Royal Decree-Law 5/2021, which approved a new aid package of EUR 11 billion to protect and support all companies and sectors most affected by the pandemic, fundamentally viable companies that could be going through a situation of vulnerability or financial imbalance, as a result of the duration of the pandemic, a direct support to the companies we have been deploying for more than a year, since the pandemic struck us. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-13-CD210513.u31	I'm sorry, Vice President of the Government. I'm asking for silence, please. Don't hold conversations inside the Chamber, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-13-CD210513.u32	In particular, Royal Decree-Law 5/2021 is structured around three new funds, the largest being the line of €7 billion of direct aid to businesses and self-employed for the payment of fixed costs and debts to suppliers and other operators, financial or non-financial, signed since March 2020. That is, to pay bills, fixed expenses, supplies, financial debts, etc. The aid is available to businesses and self-employed persons whose income has fallen by at least 30 % compared to 2019, within almost 100 sectors and activities that we have identified as the most affected by the restrictions, using two objective criteria of a national nature. Those sectors in which more than 10% of workers are still covered by a temporary employment regulation file, at the time of approval of the said Royal Decree-Law, and those sectors which have not managed to incorporate at least 75% of workers who reached ERTE at the peak of the first wave in April 2020. In other words, the Royal Decree-Law included activities in the fields of commerce, textiles, passenger transport, hospitality, catering, tourism, cinemas, performing arts, museums and gyms, among which almost 100 sectors we had identified, using objective criteria throughout the national territory. As I told you when this royal decree-law was discussed last 25 March, the Government is fully aware that there are other sectors and companies that are having a bad time, and we are very sensitive to their needs, and so from the very beginning we are open to considering an expansion of the sectors that could meet the established requirements, also in line with the approaches made by their lords, so that the particularities of each territory can be addressed. As a result of this desire to meet the needs of our companies and workers in the best possible way, on 20 April the Council of Ministers adopted the Royal Decree-Law, which is now subject to validation, which, in short, does what it does to enable the autonomous communities and cities to expand the sectors and enterprises benefiting from the aid. Within the allocation granted or established for each of the Autonomous Communities, they may include as beneficiaries sectors additional to the 95 already foreseen, taking into account the specificities of each territory, in short, the impact that the measures restricting mobility or economic activity adopted by the Autonomous Communities themselves have had on enterprises and self-employed persons within their competence. In addition, this Royal Decree-Law includes the possibility of granting exceptional aid to viable companies that achieved a negative result in 2019 for reasons, as I said, extraordinary or exceptional. A clear example is the companies that could be affected by Thomas Cook's bankruptcy, especially in the Autonomous Community of the Canary Islands, in 2019. As you all know, the aid provided for in these royal decree-laws will be managed by the Autonomous Communities through the signing of an agreement with the Government of Spain. On 15 April, the Ministry of Finance sent the relevant agreement to the Autonomous Communities and, to this day, with the exception of the Basque Country, Navarre and the Autonomous Cities of Ceuta and Melilla, all the Autonomous Communities have already signed the agreements with the Ministry of Finance and are therefore in a position to withdraw their calls for aid; in fact, I hope that they will all do so in the coming weeks. In addition, the Government has transferred the corresponding part of this aid line to Extremadura, Castilla-La Mancha, Comunidad de Madrid, Asturias, Galicia, Comunidad Valenciana y Castilla y León, and in the next few days the disbursement will also take place for Catalonia, Murcia, Andalusia, La Rioja and Cantabria. On the other hand, and with this end, the actual decree-law submitted today to validation also enables the delegations of Economy and Finance to grant to the companies during the years 2021 and 2022 a period of absence of two years from the expiration date of the obligations of a non-tax nature, and a subsequent fractionation of the debt of up to two years. As I said, this split-up and default will apply to public non-tax customs debts, for example, for the repayment or repayment of aid or loans granted by the General Administration of the State, without taking into account the period to which the corresponding debts relate. Also, if the debt had any original collateral, it would be maintained. This is, of course, a voluntary possibility for businesses and it is about providing them with liquidity, reducing the burden of fulfilling these non-tax obligations for businesses and citizens. The potential beneficiaries of these measures are SMEs, in particular in the sectors most hit by the pandemic, companies also dedicated to science and innovation, tourism and strategic enterprises. In order to apply for this measure, these companies must submit a supporting statement of the reasons for the pandemic which pose transitional cash difficulties in returning the aid, and a viability or business plan with an auditor's report if the application exceeds EUR 150,000 or EUR 250,000 in conjunction with previous applications. We are therefore putting in place exceptional and transitional procedures, but they strongly support the companies in our country. It is about continuing to give oxygen to the productive tissue in this final phase of the pandemic, so that they can have the muscle necessary to take advantage of the incipient recovery that shows us all the economic indicators. I hope to have the support of your ladies and gentlemen, I look forward to your vote for the validation of this royal decree-law. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-13-CD210513.u33	Thank you, Second Vice President of the Government. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] The Joint Parliamentary Group, first of all, Mr Guitarte Jimeno, is taking part in the position-setting exercise.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-13-CD210513.u34	Thank you, President. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this crisis has caused many companies to have stalled their business for months without obtaining income, and they are starting now with conditions that have not allowed them to function properly, with many limitations because, in general, demand remains minimal. Many of them will find it difficult to move forward and need support tailored to their particularities. There is no doubt, and it must be acknowledged, that the State has strongly supported many companies and sectors, although for some it is not yet enough. That is why we believe that this royal decree is essential to help in its recovery, and that is why we will vote in favour of its adoption, although we will also do so by requesting it to be dealt with as a draft law, by the urgency procedure, so that certain aspects identified as the one I am going to comment on now can be improved. We want to show, for example, that sometimes the conditions that are imposed to restrict speculators or non-viable companies do not lead to support being given to those who need it most. This is the case of many small companies that in 2019 and previous years had recently started their business or faced an investment or enlargement process by growing, diversifying, or were even liquidated the end of their loss account of the previous crisis, which has caused their accounts not to be positive in 2019 and therefore have not been able to access ICO credits. And although you have mentioned some exemptions, I do not think that all the possibilities are covered, so we are being transferred to the sector concerned. In many of them, these economic data for 2019 are not positive and yet they have the capacity to face investments, although now with more difficulties, because they have generally been refinanced with ICO credits. These The companies have continued to struggle and work to get ahead, they are the ones who need these aids most, and under these conditions they will not reach them. We believe that we need to create bars to judge companies for their real situation, their expectations and their recovery potential, really helping those who need it most, provided they have the capacity to move forward. We know many small businesses in this situation. This is the case, for example, of the rural and nature tourism sector, which is affected by the perimeter closures. We believe that the government must make an effort to adapt this or other aid to the reality of small businesses that are suffering, but they are viable, especially in territories like ours.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-13-CD210513.u35	Mr. Guitarte, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-13-CD210513.u36	...where it's harder to get ahead. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-13-CD210513.u37	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the same parliamentary group, Mr Sayas López has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-13-CD210513.u38	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Madam Vice President, this is the way. We, in the intervention of the previous decree, call for the autonomous communities to be allowed to adapt the economic sectors that could benefit from the aid, and the Government has taken it into account, has heard it. The path of dialogue and listening is the path on which we can agree. I believe that this aid is important for companies as it is a liquidity aid. It is true that we will have to be very careful so that these liquidity problems do not end up becoming a solvency problem, as the European Union is already warning. The European Union is saying that the risk that this lack of liquidity of companies will end up being a solvency problem in Spain, affecting productive capacity and therefore having consequences for employment, is a clear risk, of course, in the European Union's position on the macroeconomic picture that lowers the forecasts of the Spanish Government itself. Again it seems that the forecasts, despite having been corrected, are optimistic forecasts. And I would like to end by saying one thing: that aid to companies is very good, we all share it, we believe that it is necessary - we will see if it is enough - but that cannot come from the hand of having breakfast with news such as sablazo to the contributions of the self-employed or of the companies and of tax increases, because, if what we are giving on the one hand, we are taking it on the other hand, obviously we are doing a weak favor to the companies. We are now reaching a time when, with taxes and contributions, we are entering an already almost confiscatory scenario, and that is very worrying for the productive fabric and for a country which has a structural employment problem, which has rates above 15% and which cannot be allowed to have a business fabric that does not facilitate job creation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-13-CD210513.u39	Thank you very much, Mr. Sayas. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Finally, Mrs Oramas González-Moro has the floor for the same parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-13-CD210513.u40	Thank you, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister. We were very critical in the previous decree with the theme that is excluded, under the headings that you had put, the entire Canarian productive sector; practically the entire industrial, commercial sector, the prototype of company that exists in the Canary Islands. This new decree corrects the subject matter of the headings and also corrects the ceiling of the 200,000 euros, however there are so many more things that are very important for those 14 billion to arrive and be executed, and we had left with his party in which, through amendments to the previous decree or to this one that they are going to come out, they were going to be solved; but they are still unsolved. For example, the fall of 30% invoicing is an absurd requirement, especially for businesses in the Canary Islands, because, as I told you last time, cows have to be milked, cheeses have to be produced, etc. These are companies whose margins are at the limit and, in order not to have losses or simply to continue to operate, this fall of 20, 15 or 26 % is not enough, because they would cease to be viable and would have to close. And the same is true of a number of other issues that we had raised. It does not seem to us serious that the Socialist Party should continue to extend the deadline for the submission of amendments to the first decree and that it should now transfer the money to the autonomous communities, when all those things that would allow small businesses and self-employed people to access these direct aid will remain out. When you want to close the deadline for tabling amendments so that all these cases can enter, the money will have already been distributed. We are asking for it to be treated as a draft law, but the Socialist Party must fulfil its commitment to the first decree regulating aid as a draft law, and for that it is necessary to close the deadline for tabling amendments. These direct aids arrive late and arrive badly. The rest of the European countries did so from the very beginning, in July; you have done so now, and will be here in three months. Many small and medium-sized enterprises and many self-employed have remained on the road. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-13-CD210513.u41	Thank you very much, Mrs Oramas. Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group. [[EAJ-PNV]] [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-13-CD210513.u42	Thank you, President. Egun on, ladies and gentlemen, Vice President. We are going to support this decree, because the issues dealt with in it today had already been demanded by us, but we are also going to be critical. Today a decree is brought here to put a patch, to modify the Royal Decree 5/2021 of Direct Aids, because they are unable to bring a decree without having spoken or agreed before with the other political groups and the autonomous communities, which are those who really know the economic reality of their territory and those who, in some cases, had already advanced money and those who, together with the municipalities, had granted and paid direct aid to sectors listed in this annex to the decree. In his day I told them that rushes aren't usually good counselors. How much better it would have been to wait another week and arrive with a negotiated and consensual decree. If that had been done, today we would not be debating this decree and we would have avoided a patch, the aim of which is for the autonomous communities to have room for manoeuvre to expand, with flexibility, these sectors and to include the possibility of aid to companies that are viable but that, for extraordinary circumstances, have had losses in 2019, but, yes, with the same envelope, with the same amount of money that had already been established. If it does not reach all these sectors, the autonomous communities will hardly be able to expand these sectors, unless they do so with their own resources. In Euskadi, of course, it will ensure adequate coverage for these sectors with the amount that comes and then decide whether or not to expand to other sectors from own resources. Yes, they have made a change, but more because of criticism and pressure from certain sectors and autonomous communities than because of conviction. That is why we continue to fear that concept so peculiar that you have co-governance. This crisis - we have always said - is affecting different sectors in each of the autonomous communities differently, and we therefore believe that we must respond to the specific nature, weight and impact of each of the economic activities in the different territories, as well as to the very capacities of these communities and the economic sectors to reflocate. It is the same thing that we are going to ask and we are asking about European funds. You have said, and it is true, that Euskadi and Navarra have not yet signed the agreement. In our case, they know that it has been because, because of the peculiarities that we have in the taxation system, we have had to approve the criteria for taxation laid down for our own, but also because of the exchange of information that must be. But it will be done. As we have said, we will support these amendments, but I would also like to remind you that Royal Decree-Law 5/2021 had to be dealt with as a bill so that the groups could submit amendments. Week after week we have seen how these procedures have been postponed, and not only those of this decree but also those of others, and how the deadlines are extended. Therefore, we did not just understand why it is voted to be treated as a bill if then we do not have that possibility of amending, and that in the case of Royal Decree-Law 6/2021 we do not agree that it is treated as a bill, because the decree itself required that the funds be recorded by the end of the year, and it was quite complicated. But I do believe that other decrees remain paralyzed and that this has to be regulated in some way. A country, a region that is unable to take advantage of the potential of good governance, loses opportunities. That is why we continue to reach out to them, but call, listen, talk to political groups and the autonomous communities and agree on measures not to lose any more opportunities and to be able to move forward in this and other fields. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-13-CD210513.u43	Thank you very much, Mrs. Sagastizabal. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the rostrum]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Muñoz Vidal has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-13-CD210513.u44	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, hello again. Vice President, welcome. This debate to validate the sixth royal decree adopted by the government this year could be held as the chronicle of an announced death, because, Madam Vice-President, as seen, anyone would say that you are hoping that this direct aid will not reach businesses and self-sustaining. They seem to want them never to get paid. They made a first mistake in the previous decree approving these direct aids. This error was to leave the management of the funds to the Autonomous Communities and to give them the capacity to set the levels of aid according to the amount they had received. From our point of view, it is a mistake, because some communities could choose either to give the maximum of the aid allowed to a small number of companies or to give a minimum to get to favor more companies and more self-employed affected. That is, by one way or another, by one option or another, the distribution mechanisms that you designed only ensure one thing, and it is that, if the funds at some point reach the autonomous communities, the inequality for companies that are in different territories will be absolute. But this is not healed in this royal decree-law that we validate today. You continue to delve into the error, and in this Royal Decree-Law 6/2021 you once again leave in the hands of the autonomous communities the possibility of extending the list of sectors affected according to the economic situation of the specific region. Therefore, instead of being able to silence the criticisms arising from the previous royal decree-law, what they do is to delve further into the error in this decree, that is to say, to produce even more inequality between enterprises and autonomous from different territories. In relation to the sectors affected, the best solution, from my humble point of view, is that proposed to them from Citizens, which we sent them a few weeks ago to which was their Secretary of State for Economic Affairs. This solution would have been to include sectors particularly affected at the national level in some autonomous communities, i.e. to mark from the Central Administration which sectors should be the beneficiaries of such aid. Moreover, this royal decree contains objective criteria for invoicing, and this could be used as a filter to exclude those companies that, even belonging to affected sectors, do not meet criteria of special impact on the pandemic. Therefore, the billing requirement alone was already a sufficient mechanism to filter out those sectors most affected by the pandemic and the regional characteristics presented in the different autonomous communities. In short, ladies and gentlemen, companies' solvency aid should have been articulated from the state level, as I said a moment ago, with homogeneous and comparable criteria to ensure that companies under the same economic conditions receive exactly the same treatment, regardless of their tax domicile. The second mistake we find ourselves in is that you have designed a disbursement mechanism that imposes a huge administrative burden on the autonomous communities, most of which do not have personal means to undertake such tasks. It gives the impression that this does not matter to you, because if you cared you would have accepted the recommendation of our parliamentary group and now we would have a fast and efficient mechanism, articulated through the financial institutions, that will assess the losses in the billing of potential beneficiaries and that will quickly disburse these aids. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-13-CD210513.u45	Ladies and gentlemen, please remain silent.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-13-CD210513.u46	I am sorry to say, Vice-President, that this royal decree is a flight forward to appease spirits in the autonomous communities and in some sectors affected by the crisis and does not resolve any of the deficiencies noted in the royal decree or in the original text. In fact, we believe that the application of this amendment will introduce even more differences between the different autonomous communities. On the other hand, I would like to refer to the famous agreements to be signed by the Ministry of Finance and the Autonomous Communities, according to that press release of 16 April. The ministry would have taken more than a month, exactly thirty-five days, to send these agreements to the regional authorities for signature. In the press note of 16 April, the Autonomous Communities are urged to sign as a matter of urgency, but you did not impose this urgency, because you failed to meet the one-month deadline, which you yourself had given yourselves. This is urgent, gentlemen of the government. Companies don't have time anymore. Spain is already considerably behind other European countries in terms of direct aid, and you have only extended it over time. Unfortunately, since the shortcomings we have mentioned have not been resolved, we are going to find funds which represent an extraordinary administrative effort and probably impossible to take on by the autonomous communities; a significant delay in the disbursement of aid; a significant asymmetry in the application of the funds, and an increase in the political risk associated with the granting of aid, because it is impossible to analyse sufficiently the desirability or not of making such transfers to certain companies. However, Vice-President, we are aware that businesses and self-employed people cannot wait a minute longer, so we will continue to work to improve the issues I have put forward and we will vote in favour of this royal decree, because for us this process, which is already late, will not be delayed. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-13-CD210513.u47	Thank you very much, Mrs. Muñoz. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] The Plural Parliamentary Group has the floor, first of all, Mr Rego Candamil.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-13-CD210513.u48	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Vice-President, we are not against the proposed measures, but we are really critical of many of their aspects. For example, this new royal decree addresses, first, the postponements and fractionations of public debt payments. The Government has based its policy on aid to small and self-employed entrepreneurs on credits, moratoriums, postponements and splits, rather than on sufficient direct aid from the outset. As it was foreseeable, even if this is an oxygen balloon in a dramatic situation, it has not served before or now serves to solve the problem; it only delays it. This decree obeys that evidence. For many the time has come to make the payment of debts effective, until now in suspense, but they find themselves unable, since they have been closed for months or with their reduced activity. So, what is the solution? More postponements and moratoriums, entrusting good fortune and waiting for economic activity to be resumed. In addition, the measure has a very limited scope. On the one hand, it leaves out all those who have not endured and who will not be able to renegotiate the conditions because their debts are already in executive period, to which it would be fair to offer a way out if their situation is also due to the pandemic and if there is viability in the business with the recovery of the activity. Nor will it apply for tax or customs debts, only for the repayment of loan aid from the General Administration of the State. Secondly, they reform Royal Decree-Law 5/2021 at a point that the BNG had already criticized, like most of the parliamentary groups. It made a close relationship, according to the CNAE, of activities that could receive the aid, which prevented the autonomous communities from adapting it to their own needs. They will now be rectified and will be able to be extended in the opinion of the autonomous executives to others who suffer especially from the pandemic. Even so, the rest of the joint - the amounts, the procedure - remain blocked. Why are the Autonomous Communities not allowed to manage the funds properly according to the needs of each territory? It also maintains criteria of distribution which, as we have already denounced, are harmful to Galicia's interests, as they prioritize issues such as the fall in GDP or youth unemployment in the last year of the pandemic. But in Galicia the situation was already of deep industrial and economic crisis before the pandemic and, therefore, our variation is less accused, and this, curiously, penalizes us.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-13-CD210513.u49	Mr. Rego, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-13-CD210513.u50	We understand it's not fair. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-13-CD210513.u51	Thank you very much, Mr. Rego. Mr Bel Accensi has the floor for the same parliamentary group. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-13-CD210513.u52	Thank you very much, President. Madam Vice-President, we are going to vote in favour of the validation of this royal decree-law, and we are going to do so because, in your day and also earlier, we demand from this rostrum some of the measures that you are now implementing. We stated that it was absolutely absurd. And I disagree with my colleague Maria Muñoz, because this is not about treating the equals unequally, but about treating the unequals unequally. The measures taken by the Autonomous Communities were uneven, some activities were closed, others were restricted, and therefore affected differently the sectors of each of the Autonomous Communities. Consequently, it was reasonable. We thus moved him to his ministry, to his secretary of state, Mrs Ana de la Cueva, whom I would like to thank for her work, with disagreement on many occasions, and for her collaboration with this parliamentary group. An issue that could have been resolved a month ago is resolved. We do so again late, which makes the needs of the companies concerned increasingly accentuated. But there are two issues that are not resolved. One is that the autonomous communities are allowed to add more sectors - obviously, no sector is eliminated - but no more resources are allocated to them. Therefore, if there are autonomous communities that add more sectors, the resources or sectors previously set will have to be increased less aid. We therefore believe that this correction should be accompanied by a budgetary amendment which increases the resources, the EUR 5 billion reaching the autonomous communities for this purpose. Second question. Indeed, we also asked them to remedy the prohibition that natural persons who had declared a net negative return in 2019 or companies with a negative tax base in the same year had access to these aid. It is not a question of the aid being earmarked for activities that are not viable, but generating losses in 2019 does not mean that the activity is not viable. In any case, this 2019 period should have been extended to three consecutive periods, to two consecutive tax periods, because, if not, the autonomous communities are given the opportunity to establish in the call those specific exemptions for having generated losses. You set an example for those affected by Thomas Cook. The results account of those affected by Thomas Cook is clear that it will be affected. What about those affected by the closure of 'commercial Paco S.A'? I'll explain myself. If a company or self-employed person has suffered non-payment from one of its suppliers other than Thomas Cook and has not affected many other companies, in general, in that self-employed community, it has losses which are not attributable to its economic management and which, through this mechanism, are not resolved. That is why, Madam Vice-President, we are going to table amendments, but as the deadline for tabling amendments is closed - you are going to tell me that this is a matter for the Bureau of this House - of one of the real decrees of March last year a year and two weeks later since its adoption they will not solve anything. In any case, before parliamentary proceedings, the priority is for those resources to reach those affected.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-13-CD210513.u53	Your time's up. Thank you very much, Mr. Bel.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-13-CD210513.u54	Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-13-CD210513.u55	For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Capdevila i Esteve has the floor. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-13-CD210513.u56	Good morning, Madam President. Good morning, deputies and deputies. Good morning, Madam Vice President. One year later - more than one year later - the start of the pandemic, the Spanish Government finally approved the first line of direct compensation for businesses and self-employed workers affected by the pandemic situation. [[The Lord]] During that year, the State Administration had failed to comply with the principle of co-responsibility. Ladies and gentlemen, it is very easy to understand that the decision to apply restrictive measures affecting the activity, in order to stop the infection by COVID, can only be accompanied by resources to compensate the sectors concerned. It should be noted that so far I have not talked about aid, because, Minister, Vice-President, it is not aid, it is compensation, it is late and it has turned Spanish SMEs and self-employed people into second-rate Europeans. Let us not forget that, in the meantime, it has been the various territorial administrations that have had to assume this responsibility. Catalonia has been the territory that has provided the most direct compensation, both in absolute value and in relation to the population, almost doubling the number of autonomous communities that are in second and third place. But we know that this is not enough and we have therefore called for it as an active and passive secretariat of outgoing State, and he took the opportunity to congratulate her on her handover and competence, since the dissension, and to wish her the best in her future tasks. These compensations came with Royal Decree 5/2021 last month, but our astonishment was that, beyond finding that the budget was far from being disbursed by the main European economies, they left many of the sectors affected at the stand - hairdressers; wine producers; magazine publishers; crafts; leisure education; unregulated teaching; souvenir shops; toy shops; beauty salons and hairdressers. An endless number of professionals noted with amazement that, although their billing had collapsed beyond 40%, they were treated differently, by the mere absurdity of belonging to different sectors, and that one of them was excluded. As a result of this blatant discrimination and the many criticisms received, today we are debating in this House to validate the patch with which they intend to amend their mistake. Royal Decree-Law 6/2021 leaves the autonomous communities the discretion to expand the list of sectors receiving these compensations, and we welcome it. We welcome the fact that you put aside that Jacobin decision, which is the uniforming state, and assume that each territory has a different social and economic structure or, as you call it in your text, a regional idiosyncrasy. I haven't been able to avoid the smile, and I see you neither. The consequence of this disparate reality will surprise you. It does not serve the same recipe for everything - Mrs Muñoz Vidal, the default equality is pernicious by itself -. In the case we are dealing with today, the same list of CNAE is not valid for everyone. However, Vice-President, although we agree with this amendment, as well as with the possibility that this royal decree opens up to extend the list of recipients to all those sectors that incurred losses during 2019, in spite of all that, is not enough. Last week in the Commission we stated, and today we reiterate it, that extending the list of recipients of compensation without providing the fund with greater resources is a waste of money. You do the simple mathematical operation of increasing the denominator by staying fixed the numerator. What's going on? That we play less, and that means it to a village vet. The productive fabric is screaming at him. The situation is very critical. We urge them once again to comply with the principle of co-responsibility for the sectors most affected by the pandemic and to increase - please - the allocation of these funds. Look at the numerator too. We will vote in favour of validation and hope that it will be treated as a bill without the usual filibusterism that would prevent any amendment converted into law within a year from being of no use. But as Baloo would say to Mowgli, Madam Vice President, that is already another story. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-13-CD210513.u57	Thank you so much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Muñoz Dalda has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podem-Galicia in common.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-13-CD210513.u58	Ladies and gentlemen, the current crisis generated by the COVID-19 pandemic has put to the test the economic viability of many Spanish companies. Measures to contain the spread of the virus based on limitations on mobility, physical distance, temporary suspension of certain non-essential branches of activity have proved effective in the containment of the virus, but have also had a severe impact on a large number of companies that play a decisive role in creating employment and generating added value. Micro- and self-employed people are those who have suffered an impact from the major crisis as a result of increased liquidity needs due to the sharp fall in billing and insufficient resources available to meet needs. In the field of work, the pandemic has been faced with the most precarious jobs, as has already been the case in the previous crisis. In addition, the impact has been greater in sectors with great weight in our economy - hospitality, commerce, tourism - and in which the presence of young people and women is very high. On Monday, 10 May, the third Vice-President of the Government, Yolanda Díaz, presented public policies related to the labour market aimed at addressing unemployment and precariousness. And he said that it's not about having lives to work, it's about building jobs that allow us to live better. We can't agree more from the United We can. There is also a clear commitment on the part of the Government to provide an opportunity for young people. Policies targeting young people have a high impact on the reform plan. There are 765 million investments in young jobs that influence the Tandem Programme, together with the Youth Guarantee Plan. From the outset, the Government has undertaken a significant deployment of economic measures with the aim of strengthening the health system and cushioning the impact on the productive fabric and incomes of families. During 2020, measures to support the productive fabric were fundamental and effective in facilitating business liquidity and avoiding a significant volume of bankruptcy. This is demonstrated by data from the Banco de España and the Ministry of Economic Affairs itself. As of 30 April 2021, a total of 997 013 operations, 98 % of self-employed and SMEs, have been approved. The Banco de España states that the ICO line had a decisive contribution, especially in the case of companies with worse access to credit, such as SMEs and independents. With regard to the labour market, although the data are worrying, the measures taken by the Government have managed to contain the destruction of employment and the unemployment rate is well below that projected by the main specialized agencies. However, the outbreaks have made the consequences of the pandemic more prolonged and there is a risk that liquidity problems will result in solvency problems, ultimately affecting the financial system and the public sector. For this reason and after an intense debate within the Government, last March the Government approved direct aid that does not entail indebtedness for businesses and self-employed with a budget of 7 billion, 2000 of them for the Canary Islands and Balearic Islands, which reveals both the fragility of the islands - in this case because of the dependence on tourism - and the imperative need to transform the productive model. Direct aid is a measure that our parliamentary group has been calling for since the beginning of this year along with other measures that have a direct impact on the productive fabric, for example the establishment of a sanctioning regime that fines late companies to prevent the breaking of the payment chain, guarantee liquidity and reduce the need for indebtedness. In the validation plenary of Royal Decree-Law 5/2021, which regulates direct aid, we announced that we would be working on the review and improvement of the approved measure, as we considered that its coverage should be extended and the criterion that they had not had losses in 2019 should be relaxed. A few weeks later, this royal decree-law that we discussed here today gives autonomous communities the ability to expand CNAE codes, beneficiaries of direct aid, and the possibility of granting aid to viable companies that had a negative result in 2019. Such measures show that it is possible to respond to an economic and social crisis through policies to support our productive fabric and families, and not through policies of cuts that lead to increased inequalities. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-13-CD210513.u59	Thank you. [[A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.-Pause]] Mr Espinosa de los Monteros de Simon has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-13-CD210513.u60	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, Spain today accumulates hundreds of thousands of SMEs, traders, self-employed, hoteliers, travel agencies, hairdressers and very diverse workplaces that are stopped by decree, which have been forced to close. They have been demanding and waiting for direct support to survive for months, and many companies, too many, have failed to survive. We are the country of Europe where the productive fabric has deteriorated the most, which the most companies have destroyed during this epidemic. Other companies, after more than a year of activity limitation, continue to struggle to endure, to stay until recovery arrives, but unfortunately this is delayed. Business insolvencies have risen by 71% until April and we know that without companies there is no recovery that is worth it. The important thing was to guarantee liquidity and safeguard employment to ensure that we got out of this crisis without one more stop and without one less company. And yet, fourteen months later, we have destroyed more than 100,000 businesses and 625,000 private jobs. Moreover, in deseasonalized terms, today we continue to destroy jobs. Since the beginning of the pandemic we have called for full support for the productive fabric, with direct aid similar to those approved in other countries and, regrettably, despite the outcry at the Banco de España, Fedea, business organisations and multiple sectors in need of liquidity, they did not listen to us. For a long time Spain became an exception in Europe, the only one in which a large economy did not approve direct aid to save its productive fabric, and finally Pedro Sánchez improvised and rectified. We already know that Mr Sánchez is only right when he corrects, but the correction of his words came seven months after the adoption of measures by the rest of the European countries and after the destruction of 35 000 companies. It arrived very late and, after the announcement of the aid, did not arrive the aid itself, but came a period of indefiniteness, chaos and uncertainty in which no one knew how or when or where to apply. In fact, to date - almost a year after the start of this aid by the European countries - not even one euro of this aid has come to Spanish companies, and not only has not come to the aid, but it is also embarrassing that the Government has not so far articulated a mechanism for the postponement and fractionation of payment to the administrations; on the contrary, we are the only country that, far from showing some empathy with the real economy, has decided to raise fiscal pressure and has remained inflexible in demanding the fulfilment of obligations to others, while the Government was not able to offer health, social or economic solutions to its administrators. The whole planet adjusting to a new reality to try to survive, and while the public administration with the same demands with the private sector, as if nothing had happened. Indeed, its disconnection from reality and from the Spanish is very impressive. Madam Minister, the aid from this royal decree is insufficient. We have already pointed out that they were announced seven months late, but that, in addition, their amount, of about 7 billion, is seven times less than our productive fabric demanded. Seven times less, seven months later. And, as has happened systematically with the responses that the Government has been articulating during the pandemic, once again a procedure is used that is going to make it very difficult for companies to arrive. The Autonomous Communities have already complained about the difficulties they will encounter in trying to manage such aid. The rule designed by the Government of Spain condemns companies, again, to a bureaucratic hell. They fall back into the same error resulting from their administrative bubble. After the slow pace of implementation of ICO credits, the delay in ERT-related aid, the disaster in implementing minimum living income, we have not improved anything. They re-design a slow and lazi process in which the selection, evaluation and monitoring of projects is made dependent on the agility of each Administration, and anticipate a new disappointment. And that's a lot, Minister. With this royal decree the Government wants to shield itself in the autonomous communities to evade their responsibility, but no one believes them anymore. Because the economic response of the government of Pedro Sánchez in these months has been triggering error after error, failure after failure and disappointment after disappointment, and they explain to a great extent why Spain has fallen more and destroyed more companies and more employment than all the countries in our environment. [[Applauds]] The priority was to sustain the productive fabric, ensure liquidity and employment to sustain businesses and accelerate recovery to prevent this crisis from leaving lasting scars. And when they were interested, they did know how to do it. It did not take two weeks to approve aid for private television. Two months ago the government agilely approved the award of 53 million euros to an airline with close links to chavismo. With that money and speed we could have saved thousands of SMEs and who knows how many jobs in Spain as a whole. Madam Minister, the last time we were able to debate in this House we asked you not to send the Recovery Plan without briefly recalling it in this House, but you sent Brussels an unfinished bread, without any support and full of tax increases that, more inri, you hid from us. They sent a plan that they didn't want to pass through Congress because they knew it wasn't going to get much support. And it is that, after months of obscurantism, the project of his Government has been revealed, which is that it will leave no tax behind. Our companies urgently need less taxes and more aid, sufficient aid, and not smokescreens that do not solve the real problems of the Spaniards. Madam Minister, you could have helped to avoid the economic disaster in Spain, but you did not know how; so, sadly, it will remain for the posterity that you had years of power, but of not knowing. Unfortunately, the cost of their neglect will be paid by the Spaniards. Spain deserves much more than you have been able to offer it. He has no doubt that the Spaniards will remember him. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause of the Members of the VOX Parliamentary Group, on the ground]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-13-CD210513.u61	Thank you. [[A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.-Pause]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Castellón Rubio has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-13-CD210513.u62	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. The Government today presents this unique article decree whose fundamental content is found in the first final provision, which amends Decree 5/2021, as has already been said by its lords. This Decree 5/2021 establishes certain compensations to companies in crisis, and which was approved by the Government yesterday exactly two months ago.In reality, what you bring, Madam Vice-President, is a new correction. Another one. One more example of this chaotic economic management that this Government has to deal with the crisis. In addition, Mrs Calviño, you are failing to correct today, on the other hand, a decree which you in your department had to improvise urgently, in counterclockwise, in order to materialise that announcement by President Sánchez in this rostrum, on the occasion of the debate on the state of alarm. The truth is that it is very descriptive that, one year after the start of the crisis, the first measure comes in the form of direct aid, comes as a result of an announcement by the President and not as a result of a planned response from your department, Madam Vice-President. And, of course, after the haste you gave yourself so that it didn't look like what it really was, that it was a rabbit in Mr. Sánchez's joke, the rectification comes within a few days. But nothing new, Madam Vice-President, because you live immersed in the permanent rectification, so you did in your response to the health crisis, then it cost us lives, and so you do again in your response to the economic crisis, whose rectifications are costing us the country's credibility, millions of euros in losses, thousands of companies in liquidation, 100,000 thousand now, and thousands of jobs, for example the chaos of the Pedro Sánchez government. The truth is that after the strong criticisms that you have received from the sectors of activity to which you have left out of that 7 billion aid, today you are changing your mind and establishing the possibility that the autonomous communities will be able to expand the beneficiary sectors. And the truth is, allow me to tell you that you even have a point of pride to rectify, Madam Vice-President. They could have eliminated Annex I directly and not delegated that power to the Autonomous Communities, but we are going to support this change of opinion, which we had already rejected for unfairness and, therefore, we will vote in favour of the decree, despite the fact that Decree 5/2021 we believe that it continues to suffer from numerous deficiencies, and that, in addition, those deficiencies, Mrs Calviño, make it ineffective as a response to the needs of companies. You could have used it to correct some of those shortcomings, which we have already pointed out to you, you could have improved the management procedure, which is impossible to digest; you could, and it was a good occasion today, establish that those 7 billion direct compensations were an extendable credit, because it turns out that it is an absolutely ridiculous amount to deal with the calculations of 72 billion euros of losses. Let us remember that we have invested only 1.3% of GDP in these resources, compared to 4.1% in the European Union; we are the country that has helped businesses the least. You should also have used, Mrs Calviño, to change the territorial distribution of funds, which is arbitrary and discriminatory with companies based in autonomous communities governed by the Socialist Party, and the campaign of 4 May has already passed. They should also have broadened the eligible concepts so that companies can receive funds and benefit from and cope with fixed costs of all kinds, which they have had to face with their lungs. You could have corrected the fact that it was left out of aid to companies with negative net worth in 2019, or to those with some specific debt to the Tax Agency, to the public administration, but which are viable companies, to which we have to help. Finally, you should have established the obligation to refer to Congress the dossiers relating to the EUR 1 billion fund for recapitalisation of companies, that fund that will manage Cofides, and in this way we would avoid episodes such as those we are suffering these days. If you continue to refuse to make public the record of the SEPI commission, in an act of absolute obscurantism, of lack of transparency - I hope, Madam Vice-President, that you are with me - which implies the fact that this House cannot know the record by which 53 million public funds are granted from all citizens to a company, and that it is being investigated judicially, I hope today that it does not exemplify the management of the government or how you intend to administer the European funds that are coming. These are some of our proposals to improve this line of aid, we are going to articulate them in the form of an amendment, which you once again dishearten today. That is despite the fact that in recent days, in some forums, their apparent desire to have the support of the opposition to bring forward certain legislative initiatives has sluggishly slipped. Then we come to Parliament and see how the reality is that you never want to agree on anything. They did not want to agree on an orderly exit from the state of alarm, they did not want to agree on an institutional framework for governance to distribute European funds, they did not want to agree on the recovery plan itself and set it up as a real country plan for structural reforms, which would compromise the economic policy of several legislatures. You first approve it, then President Sánchez sells it in a bowl and a platter, then sends it to Brussels and later makes it public by fascicles, that's right. All of this to then have you to say, Mrs Calviño, that those tax increases contain errors, because they are wrong, or how the tolls introduced by the Minister of Development yesterday told us that they were reflections and that they will only be put in place according to the opposition. Well, you can already tell the European Commission that, as it is not a thought-provoked reflection, this group is not going to support it, and therefore it must be treated as another mistake, because the PP is not going to support either that or other confiscation measures that the Recovery Plan imposes on self-employed people, families and SMEs. In short, we will support this decree, we will support how many measures this House brings to help businesses and the self-employed. I am afraid that there will be few - so far this is the only one - since you are focused on that radically ideological economic agenda that aims to put it in the citizens' pocket with one hand to steal their portfolio and the other to offer subsidies in the form of green, digital and resilient investments, which in no case will reach the SMEs or the self-employed. You are not help, you are not help, Mrs Calviño, you are a slab for recovery. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-13-CD210513.u63	Thank you so much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, Mr Casares Hontañón has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-13-CD210513.u64	Thank you very much, President. Thank you very much, Vice-President, for the explanation of the royal decree-law, a royal decree that improves the policies of the Government of Spain and that package of direct aids to our business fabric. Ladies and gentlemen, the majority support that we are going to see in this House today is good news for Spain, for this country, but, above all, ladies and gentlemen, it is good news for SMEs, for the self-employed, for our productive fabric and for the Spaniards. That is the way we should continually take and go to give mandate to the will of the Spanish and Spanish, and that is the way on which the Spanish Government has always been and will continue to be, with agreement and social dialogue and also listening to this House. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, listening to this House because, if we change because we listen, they say that we rectify and, when there was no such aid, they criticize that there were no aid, but when we have tried it, they say that they do not reach all sectors and, when we extend to all sectors, they say that they are insufficient and, moreover, they call for more management for the Autonomous Communities and, when we give management to the Autonomous Communities, they say that they do not because the management of these aid is complicated. And they did the same with the European funds, which are more complex, but they say that they should be managed by the autonomous communities; by the way, some funds that, if managed by the Spanish Government, say that they have to be decided by an independent agency, but that they are the autonomous communities, can decide for themselves. In short, ladies and gentlemen, I bring this up to you because you are always with one and the opposite, and everything on the same day, in the same sentence, in the same speeches, ladies and gentlemen, [[Applauds]] Besides, the whole pandemic's been like this. Remember? In May 2020 they said we had to put an end to the state of alarm. At the worst time of the pandemic, a year ago, they said that the state of alarm did not, and today, a year later, in May 2021, they say that it is an irresponsibility of the Government of Spain to put an end to the state of alarm. Ladies and gentlemen, we are going to be crazy, but not us, all the Spanish and all the Spanish. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, please agree because if we don't know them... That is the reality, but they also insist - and today they have done so again - that aid is late. That's not true, ladies and gentlemen. How are the aid going to be late if in the same month of March 2020 we started to deploy the aid by the Government of Spain? Yes, ladies and gentlemen, is it not direct aid, ladies and gentlemen, is it not the fate or the termination benefit for the self-employed? Or are they going to tell those more than 3.5 million Spaniards and Spaniards who have benefited from an ERT or those 1.5 million self-employed who have received a benefit and have not paid quotas that have not received aid from the Government of Spain? It has been EUR 30 billion in direct aid to finance these income maintenance policies, ladies and gentlemen, all while we also deploy a comprehensive protection network with moratoriums, tax deferrals or public guarantee policies through ICO credits. They again insist today that all these aids are also insufficient and call for more. It sounds to you, doesn't it, ladies? While asking for more aid, they ask to lower all taxes, but not content with more aid and lower all taxes, they say that we must reduce public debt and the public deficit. An impossible!, and you know it, you know it's an impossible. See if you know it's impossible that when you came to the government in the previous crisis, with Mariano Rajoy, in case you don't remember, you carried out the biggest cut in our democratic history. [[Applauds]] They cut off dependency, education, policies, including benefits for the unemployed, ladies and gentlemen. The party of free dismissal, that's you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party! As they remembered, all taxes in this country went up, all sections of the IRPF went up, VAT went up from 18 % to 21 %, and even put in pharmaceutical co-ops, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party. [[Applauds]] In addition to all this, reducing cuts and raising taxes, the public debt of this country increased by 60%, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party. And in case there was little left in the equation, they carried out a tax amnesty for the fraudsters and dedicated themselves to rescuing banks. That's your economic miracle, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party! [[Applauds]] I'm done, ladies and gentlemen. Yesterday we knew good news, the European Commission said that by 2021 and 2022 Spain will be the country of the whole European Union that will grow the most, that it will increase the gross domestic product the most, and still today they say that the Government of Spain is a ballast for the Spanish economy. Well, less bad, ladies and gentlemen, because we will be the country of the European Union which will grow the most over the next two years. I end with this final reflection. This is the road, ladies and gentlemen, to recovery, to vaccination in which the Spanish Government is located, but while recovery comes, while vaccination is consolidated, we must continue to work on policies such as these, on policies, in the end, in order not to leave anyone behind. They are progressing that will not be the last steps taken by the Government of Spain with or without its help. I really tell you that it is better to have the help of this House because it is good for all the men and women of Spain. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-13-CD210513.u65	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] - REAL DECRETO-LEY 7/2021, OF 27 APRIL, TRANSPOSITION OF DIRECTIVES OF THE EUROPEAN UNION IN COMPETITION MATTERS, PREVENTION OF THE BLANCH OF CAPITALS, CREDIT ENTITIES, TELECOMMUNICATIONS, TRIBUTARY MEASURES, PREVENTION AND REPAIR OF ENVIRONMENTAL DAMAGE, DISPLAY OF WORKERS IN THE PROVISION OF TRANSNATIONAL SERVICES, AND DEFENCE OF CONSUMERS. [[File number 130/000047]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-13-CD210513.u66	We move on to the validation or repeal of Royal Decree-Law 7/2021 of 27 April on the transposition of European Union directives on competition, the prevention of money laundering, credit institutions, telecommunications, tax measures, the prevention and repair of environmental damage, the movement of workers in the provision of transnational services and the defence of consumers. To present the Royal Decree-Law, on behalf of the Government, the second Vice-President and Minister for Economic Affairs and Digital Transformation has the floor. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-13-CD210513.u67	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I rise again today in the rostrum to defend in this case the validation of Royal Decree-Law 7/2021 of 27 April of the transposition of directives of the European Union in the matters already mentioned by the President. This is an omnibus rule that allows us to incorporate up to ten directives in our legislation in whole or in part, the transposition deadline of which is already passed or very close to its expiry. You all know very well that since we arrived at the government in June 2018 we have been making a great deal of effort to bring our legislation into line with European legislation, by taking forward, thanks to the support of this House, the transposition of numerous directives that we are still awaiting and in many cases at risk of major sanctions. In the same vein, in order also to give legal certainty and extend the benefits of these new regulations to all economic operators and Spanish citizens and also to avoid processes that could lead to the imposition of sanctions by the European Union, we present today to validation this royal decree-law omnibus. It is a mechanism of the actual omnibus decrees at regular times throughout the year that is used in other countries for the transposition of Community legislation and that can be incorporated into our country so that we can finally stop being the red light of the union in terms of transposition of rules. I begin to explain briefly but also in some detail the different precepts that are incorporated in this norm. Firstly, we have completed the transposition of the directive on the posting of workers between Member States in the framework of the provision of services. The deadline for transposition is 30 July 2020. It is a directive which amends another directive adopted 20 years ago to ensure that the right balance remains between the need to promote freedom to provide services across borders and, at the same time, to ensure fair conditions for workers and also fair conditions of competition for businesses. Thus, what we do with this rule is to advance the equal treatment of domestic workers and workers displaced to our country, which, after a certain period of time in Spain, can effectively be considered integrated into the Spanish labour market. Although we had already addressed partial transposition, it was necessary to amend certain rules with a legal status in the field of labour and social security in order to complete the transposition. Among them, it should be noted that the labour legislation of the host State now covers travel of more than twelve months or eighteen months in the event of a reasoned extension. The principle of equal remuneration and equal treatment between workers displaced by temporary work enterprises and those of the user company of the host State is also guaranteed. The consequences of the movement into a chain of workers transferred by temporary employment undertakings to user undertakings in the same or another Member State to carry out temporary work in another Member State are regulated. The areas on which the law of the host State must be enforced, including accommodation conditions and travel, accommodation or maintenance supplements or refunds, are expanded. The guarantee of equal remuneration includes all the constituent elements of the guarantee which are binding, in accordance with the labour legislation and sectoral collective agreements of the host country. The sectoral agreements will apply to all displaced workers, not just those in the construction sector, as has been the case so far. Finally, the work of labour inspection is strengthened by allowing the possibility that these inspections can be carried out not only by the staff of our Labour and Social Security Inspectorate, but also by experts from other Member States of the European Union or the European Economic Area. This is therefore a very important transposition from the point of view of the internal market and also of the protection of the rights of all workers. Secondly, this royal decree-law transposes the European directives in the field of VAT so that these rules cover the field of electronic commerce. Compliance with these directives is mandatory from 1 July 2021 and therefore what we do with this rule is to complete the European regulation of electronic commerce VAT in order to reduce administrative burdens and management costs for professionals and entrepreneurs who make cross-border sales and, at the same time, limit the possibilities of fraud precisely in cross-border VAT. What is also being done is to strengthen the payment of VAT as digital commerce increases and guarantees fairness in consumer purchasing decisions, thereby expanding the internal market and restoring it, rebalancing competition between Community and non-EU suppliers. Both transpositions began as a draft law last summer, but, as the new e-commerce rules are expected to enter into force from July onwards throughout the Union, it is urgent that they be incorporated into our legislation. In particular, this new rule introduces taxation in sales of goods and services contracted online or by Community consumers. In the beginning, the entire VAT system, as you know, was intended as a system of taxation at source, but precisely the push of the digital economy, which allows consumers to purchase goods and services from suppliers all over the world, has led to the modification of the system to have a VAT system of taxation at destination, that is to say, that it is subject to the VAT of the recipient's member country and to the tax type of that country, which is what is stipulated by this actual decree-law that we are subject to validation today. It also extends the single window system, as I said, to reduce the costs of entrepreneurs or professionals, who no longer have to be discharged in each Member State, but who are identified only in the tax administration of the country in which they are established, by entering the VAT earned by all transactions carried out in the European Union with a single declaration-liquidation; companies with digital interfaces become partners in the collection and control of the tax, and finally the exemption in the payment of VAT to imports of goods below EUR 20. It is an important issue for harmonising the indirect taxation of imports of low-value goods, so that distortions to competition in favour of third-country companies that were in force so far because they were selling their goods, these small-value goods without paying VAT are eliminated. This makes all imports, regardless of their value, have to pay this tax. Nobody misses the importance they can have for the competition of digital platforms with companies established in our country. And although it is not the subject of the transposition of the directive, the Royal Decree-Law includes another aspect related to taxation, which derives from the recent decision of the European Commission linked to the urgent need to facilitate the importation of basic health products to combat the pandemic. This is the extension for eight more months, until 31 December 2021, of the 0% VAT rate for deliveries, intra-Community purchases and imports of health protection material from public administrations, public and private health centres or social entities to respond to the COVID pandemic. Spain activated this measure in April 2020, we have been extending it on several occasions and now the measure is being extended again until the end of the year. This 0% VAT includes masks, gloves, glasses, hats, waterproof robes, thermometers, breathers and other personal protective items. A third area included in this extensive royal decree-law is the transposition of the directive known as laundering five, which expired on 10 January 2020 and which incorporates new measures to strengthen systems for preventing and combating money laundering and terrorist financing. One of the main developments is the inclusion of new compulsory subjects, who must comply with the preventive measures, must be registered and monitored by the competent authorities. Among these new subjects I would like to point out to providers of virtual currency services, including virtual currency exchange services by legal tender currency, providers of e-currency custody services or key safeguard services. These are all issues that we would find almost esoteric a few years ago, but which, however, have an increasingly important role and must be covered by all these rules on the prevention of money laundering. The system of identifying the real holders of legal persons is also strengthened by the creation of a single registration system, the duty for persons obliged to request such registration information in their business relations with legal persons is established, and the duty for legal persons and entities without legal personality to obtain, retain and update the information of their real ownership and provide it to the authorities and persons bound where required. It is a very important issue of transparency and, of course, necessary to avoid these kinds of companies screens, which can play an important role precisely in the criminal activities we try to pursue. It also complies with the requirements of the directive regarding the information to be declared in the financial title file, which has been in existence in our country since 2016. On the other hand, this Royal Decree-Law also transposes the Fifth Capital Requirements Directive, which is known in expert forums as CRD IV, and the Second Directive on the Restructuring and Resolution of Credit Institutions and Investment Services Enterprises, which is again known as BRRD II. The deadline for transposition of both directives expired on 28 December 2020 and is included in what is known as the banking package, approved by the European Union in 2019 to transpose into Community law the capital requirements agreed on in the Basel Committee and the capacity to absorb losses by banks and other financial institutions on the G20 Financial Stability Board. These rules seek to increase the strength and resilience of the banking sector and continue to deploy the banking union project. This Royal Decree-Law also includes a partial transposition of the Directive known as the ECN in the field of competition protection, a Directive whose transposition expired on 4 February and whose objective is to provide Member States with the necessary means to strengthen the effective application of competition rules and to ensure the proper functioning of the internal market. Although Spanish legislation already provides for most of the provisions of this directive, it is necessary to incorporate some additional elements for full transposition. For example, new instruments are set up to promote assistance between the National Commission on Markets and Competition and the authorities of the Member States, the duties of information and collaboration and the powers of inspection by the competition authorities, certain penalties are also increased, the National Commission on Markets and Competition are given the opportunity to reject complaints on the basis of prioritization criteria and greater incentives are created for the use of the Clemency Programme. In another matter, this royal decree-law amends a specific aspect of the General Telecommunications Act to partially adapt it to what is provided for in the European Code of Electronic Communications. It is a directive that should have been transposed before 21 December, and, as you know, we are working on its transposition. It is a code that seeks to promote sustainable investment in the development of high-capacity electronic communications networks. To promote the deployment of these new networks, in particular the deployment of 5G in our country, what we do with this royal decree-law that comes to validation today is to extend the duration of concessions for private use of the radio public domain for future tenders, so that these concessions have a minimum duration of twenty years, and can reach 40. In this way, the current time frames are doubled, thus making more viable the huge investment that is going to be needed for the deployment of state-of-the-art networks. This measure is part of the 5G road map, a project that, as you know, will receive an investment of EUR 2 billion in the coming years within the recently sent recovery, transformation and resilience plan to the European authorities. In the field of the Ministry of Consumer Affairs, the Royal Decree-Law which we bring to transposition today transposes the directives linked to contracts for the supply of digital content and services and contracts for the sale of goods, which expire on 1 July. Although the transposition process began with a public consultation launched in January 2020, it is a work that was interrupted as a result of the pandemic and this process should be completed urgently, because we are talking about issues that are increasingly important in our society. This is because the General Law for the Defense of Consumers and Users applies to contracts for the supply of digital content or services, as well as to those by which the entrepreneur undertakes to provide digital content or services in exchange for personal data of the consumer or user. This regulation will not apply to free and open source programs - I make it clear before the questions that could be asked by your ladies and gentlemen - since in this case the source code is shared openly and users can freely access the software. It is also established by this Royal Decree-Law that the conformity of the contract shall be determined by the fulfilment of a number of requirements, such as the installation, and that, in the event of non-conformity, the consumer may request repair, replacement or, failing that, reduction of the price or termination of the contract. Certain time limits for the benefit of consumers are also increased: the time limit for it to be able to manifest its disconformity with digital content or services, which is extended from two to three years; the time limit for the reversal of the burden of proof to prove non-conformity, which is from six months to one or two years, as the case may be; the time limit for the exercise of rights arising from non-conformity, which is extended from three to five years, and, in relation to commercial guarantees, for the purpose of combating planned obsolescence and reducing the impact on the environment, with this actual decree-law the time limit for the legal guarantee of the goods is extended from two to three years and the minimum time for which the producer is obliged to guarantee a technical service or the existence of spare parts from the time when the product ceases to be manufactured is doubled up to ten years. These are extremely important issues for all the citizens of our country, as your ladies and gentlemen know perfectly well, particularly at a time of accelerating digital transformation. The last issue included in the Royal Decree-Law concerns the transposition of European legislation on environmental liability in relation to the prevention and repair of environmental damage. This is a rule that has already been transposed into our legal system by the Environmental Responsibility Act, adopted in October 2007, but in which the European Commission has warned an error with regard to how this legal provision was moved. The error, in particular, affects who can apply for liability action, on the basis of the polluter pays principle, which acts as the guiding principle of the directive. The correction included in the Royal Decree-Law today corrects that inaccuracy warned by the European Commission with regard to this rule and, therefore, the transposition of it into our system is well completed. Ladies and gentlemen, as you can see, the actual decree-law that we are subject to today's validation is extensive and addresses a significant number of matters that are very relevant to legal certainty, but also to the proper protection of businesses and citizens of our country. They are also rules that serve to enhance a healthy and balanced economic recovery. Moreover, with this urgent and extraordinary procedure we reduce the risk for our country of fines for delays in transposition and, therefore, it is a real decree-law that fully responds to the general interest. I therefore trust that we will have the support of the parliamentary groups for validation. Indeed, I sincerely hope that sooner or later all of you will also join the recovery plan submitted to the European authorities just over a week ago, because it is, as Commissioner Gentiloni himself said today, a country mission. And I take the words that have been expressed by some of your ladies and gentlemen, in particular Mr Castellón, as a sign that there is beginning to be a certain openness, a certain willingness to speak so that, among all, by rowing in the same direction, we can make a reality and drive that economic recovery that all economic indicators are beginning to show. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-13-CD210513.u68	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Martínez Oblanca spoke on behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-13-CD210513.u69	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good morning, Madam Vice-President of the Government and Minister for Economic Affairs and Digital Transformation. Thank you for your effort to try to explain the extensive content of this varied royal decree-law which makes it possible to transpose directives of the European Union into a dozen different subjects, which in the parliamentary slang is known, and you have recalled it, as omnibus, a mechanism which, in any case, relegates the General Courts to a role of adversarial on many occasions and supplants its main function, the legislative one. The membership of Spain as a Member State obliges us to adapt our own legislation in time to the regulations adopted by the Council of Ministers of the Community, but, at least in my case, I will not accept it until there are Spaniards for whom some of these measures imply sarcasm, when not a justified reason to distrust political management that neglects the daily problems of the people or aggravates them. I will begin by saying that the sense of abuse of this regulatory tailgate continues to float in the environment. In this XIV Legislature, of which we have had almost a year and a half, the Council of Ministers has resorted almost half a hundred times to article 86 of the Constitution, invoking that these measures respond to an extraordinary and urgent need. Therefore, it should be pointed out that, according to various information, the High Court is about to declare, at the expense of an appeal by the VOX Parliamentary Group, the unconstitutionality of the gross scheme with which the Government of Pedro Sánchez appointed the former second vice-president, Mr Iglesias Turrion, as a member of the delegated commission that controls the National Intelligence Centre. If confirmed, we would be faced with a major scandal both for the fraudulent abuse of the instrument of the royal decree-law and for the anti-democratic purpose of using such a false door. [[Applauds]] I look forward to it, because it does not seem that something like this is part of what is known and you pointed out as legal certainty. Ladies and gentlemen, the normal thing would be to support the validation of these measures, even if only to avoid the Community sanctions resulting from the procedures already opened for approval beyond the established deadline, as is the case with the competition rules to ensure the proper functioning of the internal market, which will be a protective mechanism for consumers and for companies active in the internal market. Another is the case with other transpositions. This is the case with the prevention and updating of the financial system for money-laundering or the financing of terrorism, which aim to improve transparency mechanisms and to combat the legal stratagems between those who punctuate illegal operations. I simply want to say that in this case validation comes a few months late, since the infringement procedure began to count at the end of last year. Nor did he see anything significant about the VAT Directive on electronic commerce, the new rules of which will come into force within a month and a half, namely on 1 July. Ladies and gentlemen, however, I would like to dwell on something more in relation to the large portion devoted in this royal decree-law to the very complex financial world, because I do not want to miss the opportunity to refer to the drift of the entities that in Spain are closing offices and destroying jobs, while, paradoxically, their results accounts present favorable balances, which are reflected in the very high salaries, bonuses and bonuses that those who hold positions of responsibility receive. It is caustic that the transposition of European Directives 2019/878 and 2019/879 refer to the absorption of losses from the financial sector, when in Spain thousands of bank offices have been called progress government in almost a year and a half and have been sent to unemployment for many employees. In this context of office closure, the Spanish society is witnessing the generous distribution of dividends from the boards of directors, some of them, as was recalled yesterday in the control session, represented by the very Government. Madam Vice-President, here in Congress, just over two years ago, an opinion was adopted by the Committee of Inquiry on the financial crisis in Spain, which worked intensively to summon very important and relevant personalities to explain the reasons for the 2008 disaster and, above all, to know the recipes so as not to fall again. In view of these measures that you have put forward, there remains a sense of the futility of parliamentary work, because it is unacceptable that the government assists in imperishment and even tossed the economic effort made by the Spanish in 2012 to rescue the banking entities, which today, only nine years later, turns against their workers. So I ask: What is the point of transposing this huge volume of measures and capital mattresses in Spain, when today we have eight thousand families distressed by their immediate future? No wonder there are senior officials in your ministerial department, Mrs. Calviño, who are putting their feet in dust. In short, with my abstention in the validation of this royal decree-law, I would like to draw attention to the obvious contradiction involved in the effort to draft directives and after putting them for the benefit of the financial system and the events under which many of these measures derive, to the detriment of the workers, to whom they are dismissed without contemplation, and of the users of banking services themselves, to whom they are marginalized and even abandoned. I think of older people, engaged in the use of new technologies and applications that are incapable of handling and that are not offered the alternative of face-to-face care. Some of these aspects that are validated in this royal decree-law show that...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-13-CD210513.u70	Your Honor, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-13-CD210513.u71	... The great problems of the people are not a matter of this government. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-13-CD210513.u72	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Basque parliamentary group, Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-13-CD210513.u73	Thank you, President. Egun on, Vice President. The assessment of this royal decree is certainly complex if we take account of its content, which is devoted to many issues of the most diverse nature, as has been well explained here today, sharing, however, all its different sections an identical motivation, which is the adaptation of the different laws to carry out the transposition of different directives of the European Union that still remained in an abnormal situation, pending integration into the internal order. On the other hand, the cause behind the extraordinary and urgent need for its adoption, by means of this formula of governmental norm with the rank of law, is nothing other than the delay and consequent exceedance of the deadline set for the incorporation into the domestic legal order of various directives, as we have already said here, thus claiming to solve the procedures of non-compliance opened against the Kingdom of Spain; a decree - as the Vice-President has said - on buses transposing directives of the European Union in matters of competition, prevention of money laundering, credit institutions, telecommunications, tax measures, prevention and repair of environmental damage, displacement of workers in the provision of transnational services and consumer protection; a decree which I have to say has not been consulted with political groups and neither has been consensual. It is true that the justification is that it is a decree of strict and very technical transposition of the directives. Well, that is true in most of the parties, but in some other matter, as in the case of consumer protection, it has gone a little further than what is laid down in the directive and we do not believe that it has contrasted with the sectors involved. I am not going to talk about each of the subjects of the transposition that is collected, because the Vice-President has already explained it magnificently well, but I would like at least to record in the Journal of Sessions the position of this group regarding the relative part of the Value Added Tax Act, commonly what is called the single window or what was commonly called OSS VAT. It is a transposition that must be carried out taking into account that in the State there is not only one Treasury but there are five Treasurys. I am aware that this is being done with the Basque Government. In this case, exchanges of information and financial flows are very important. It is not simple, but from here I would like to ask you to speed up and complete the work so that the economic concert can be modified in the case of Euskadi and the outside finances can also be adapted to this regime. As we have said, we do not know such decrees in advance normally and we know when they are already going to the Council of Ministers, although it is also true that we are then often asked to support the decrees so that they can then be dealt with as draft laws and we can amend them. The truth - as I said earlier in the previous decree - is that they are standing still, they have not just completed their parliamentary procedure. We have been going through extensions every week, and I think we need to put this procedure aside. What would you say about this exceptional procedure if you were in the opposition? Well, they'll criticize him. So far, things have turned out moderately well, but they continue to act in many cases as if they had the majority to carry out the projects, but they do not. That is why we believe that the groups must be back on board so that we can reach a consensus on the measures. Finally, with regard to the assessment of the jurisdictional adjustment of the Decree-Law to the constitutional and statutory system of the distribution of powers, it seems that it correctly conforms to the competences of the State, although it is at least curious that the sixth final provision of the Decree-Law with identical wording, the paragraph corresponding to the abbreviated memory of the analysis of normative impact, mentions only its articles 9, 11 and 12, noting that article 9 is issued under the jurisdiction of the State in the matter of general finance and the exclusive competence of the State in the field of labour legislation, without prejudice to the execution of the organs of the autonomous communities. The rest of the article, however, does not even mention the precise competence of the State for its approval and this has been a bit curious to us simply. We will vote in favour of validation, also in favour of its processing as a draft law in order to be able to amend certain parts of this decree, especially that relating to the ECN Directive or even to the consumption of telecommunications. To conclude, from here I would like to thank the work carried out so far by the Secretariat of State Anne of the Cave, many times since the discrepancy, but also knowing that she has done a great job in a situation in which no one - neither one of us - has the magic solutions. There will be times when he has been right and sometimes there will be some mistakes, but from here I want to thank him for the work he has done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-13-CD210513.u74	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Muñoz Vidal has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-13-CD210513.u75	Thank you, President. Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, the General Council of Economists published a report in 2019, in which it reported that during the same year and the previous year -2018 and 2019 - the number of real decree-laws approved by the Government of Spain to transpose pending European directives as a matter of urgency increased significantly, which was due, among other reasons, to the fact that Spain took an average of 12 months more than the rest of the Member States to transfer European rules to the national legal system, adding 70% of the sanctions at European level. In this I will agree with the Vice-President, who said that Spain is, together with Greece, the red light of the European Union. The parliamentary minority in which the Spanish Government has been constantly found since the 2018 motion of censure has led to the use of the royal decree-laws as an instrument to try to transpose those directives. In all, ladies and gentlemen, eighteen infringement proceedings for failing to comply with the transposition deadline and in particular with fifty-three cases of incorrect transposition or incorrect application of the provisions of the different directives. Without going further, in February of this year, in 2021, the Court of Justice of the European Union ordered Spain to pay a fine of EUR 15 million for not having adopted the Personal Data Protection Directive in time to facilitate its exchange between police and judicial authorities to investigate and punish crimes. Today we find this royal decree-law omnibus in which the Government of Spain again resorts to this figure to legislate the transposition of a large number of directives on different matters that have nothing to do with each other. You, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, Vice-President, resort to the threat of fines as an excuse to justify urgency and thus use the royal decree-law. And so they make the transposition of a dozen directives into the same decree that has almost two hundred pages. This in my home and also in the private company is called irresponsibility, with all the letters; irresponsibility of all the governments that have had Spain because you are rushing the transposition deadlines and in the end everything becomes urgent to avoid fines and sanctions that often, unfortunately, end up coming. I have to tell you that making the transposition by royal decree-law makes no sense. I'm sorry, Vice President. Not even the gravity of the economic sanctions, which may result from the failure to incorporate this directive into our legislation, justifies the actual decree-law on the part of the Government. You, lords of the PSOE - the lords of Podemos arrived at the coalition government a year ago - arrived at the government in June 2018, almost three years ago. So stop making excuses and stop abusing the figure of the decree-law, because the normal thing would have been to approach in time and form is transposition and the normal way would have been to bring a law to this House, ladies and gentlemen. If Spain is facing possible sanctions, due to the delay in adopting these rules, it is due to the government's cowardice and irresponsibility. In case you have forgotten, the royal decree-law is envisaged only for cases of extraordinary and urgent need, but you are using it to pass all kinds of laws, bypassing the action, debate and suggestions of Parliament. I tell you more - and you came out here this morning in this rostrum - your abuse reaches the time of the amendments of the royal decrees-laws that you undertake to process later as bills. I give you as an example the royal decree-law on minimum living income, validated in this House on 29 May last year, a year later and continue to extend the deadlines. But we have another example, the very urgent and eager Royal Decree-Law 36/2020, on the management of European funds, has more than ten extensions. Their abuse is undermining the right of the opposition to participate in the legislative process, they are vetoing our ability as a Parliament to make changes and improvements to the texts adopted unilaterally by a government that does not have a majority, as has already been said to them here too. They have turned us into this House, the opposition, into mere validated - if that word exists - as mere ratifications of royal decrees-laws. They've been blocking the Legislative Power for a year, and it's time for everyone to know, for everyone to know what's going on: that they're blocking this House. [[Applauds]] You move in the thin line of separation of powers and once again play dangerously to confuse the Executive with the Legislature. From here, from this rostrum, I ask you to stop blocking and preventing our work, and not to put the rule of law at risk. Stop, ladies and gentlemen, abusing the figure of the royal decree-law and stop, as in this case, using as an argument and as an excuse the sanctions of the European Union, which apply only to individual States and their governments when they fail to comply with their obligations. Having said that, we will support the validation of this royal decree-law, but we must warn you once again of the weak favour you are doing to the Spaniards and to this House with this legal figure that reduces parliamentary debates to a minimum. I ask you, please, not to go this way. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-13-CD210513.u76	Thank you very much. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Rego Candaimil has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-13-CD210513.u77	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Vice-President, we are discussing a transposition of directives on competition, the prevention of money laundering, credit institutions, telecommunications, tax measures, the prevention and repair of environmental damage, the movement of workers in the provision of transnational services and the protection of consumers. Finally, they accumulate many very different subjects in a single text and the main argument to support it is that it must be done quickly in order to avoid sanctions, without questioning at any time the content, almost as if coming from the European Union could not have an harmful content for citizens' rights. But the BNG, I warn you, will not support the transposition of rules that imply a regression. We do not, in general, share the vision that moves along the various reforms designed to defend competition and protect the single market, the creation and dissolution of financial institutions or the free movement of capital, but we will highlight two of them which are particularly worrying. The first is the territorial mobility of workers, which is also at the service of the single market and transnational companies, and by which people can now be hired in an ETT in the Spanish State and sent to work outside the State. The situation of job insecurity that involves working through these companies is well known, but now, in addition, the user companies will be able to take the employed workers to other countries and will apply to them the rule of the place of travel, which they do not know and which may imply a reduction in rights, i.e. does not promote job stability and makes it difficult for the conditions of work to be negotiated. In short, it involves treating workers as one more commodity. The second relates to the reform to give greater legal certainty to consumer and user relations in relation to contracts for the sale of goods and supplies of digital services content. Although, a priori, these rules seem correct, transferring consumer rights also to these contracts, in practice digitisation favours greater conflictivity with complaints that must be made online to physical-based companies with calls to automatic answering machines. Thus, in most cases, consumers refuse to claim, since the only solution is to judicialize the claim and, in cases of small amounts, discourages the initiation of these actions. The norm does not deal with this situation, regulating in abstract without taking into account the reality and for the benefit of the big companies. Therefore, on the basis of these criteria, the BNG cannot support this decree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-13-CD210513.u78	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Bel Accensi has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-13-CD210513.u79	Thank you, President. Madam Vice-President, both you and the same statement of reasons for the Royal Decree-Law establish as one of the main reasons for using the Royal Decree-Law and for us to validate it today - which I am already telling you that we are going to validate it - that Article 260 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union establishes very harsh sanctions for non-compliance. We are therefore implicitly acknowledging that if there were no such harsh sanctions for non-compliance with the Treaty of Functioning, many countries, including our own, will not validate. What do you mean? That any legislation for compliance must have a sanctioning regime. If there is no sanctioning regime, the law is breached. Why am I telling you this? You know why I say this to you, because measures to combat lateness if there is no sanctioning regime are not being implemented and this is absolute evidence, but not only in the Spanish State but also in the European Union. You are certainly aware of the European Parliament's resolution of the end of 2018, which made an assessment of the 2011 Directive laying down measures to combat late business in commercial operations, in which the report in Recommendation 8 set out the need for a sanctioning regime. Therefore, I ask you, not so much the Vice-President, but the parliamentary groups, to shut down the initiative - not because it is the Democratic Party, because it could also have been presented by any other political group - from the sanctions regime to corporate lateness. Having said that, I will make some considerations. Obviously, this royal decree does not make a literal transposition of the ten directives, but it transposes them and adds some additional things, in some respects it goes even far beyond what established the strict transposition of the directive and with some of these we do not agree. For this reason, although we are going to support this royal decree-law out of responsibility, we have obviously asked them - they have already advanced us that they will also vote in favour - to process it as a bill. Finally, we are not going to comment on all its contents, but there is another issue that will also sound to you, Madam Vice-President, because of my insistence. I am referring to tax measures because when you make the extension until 31 December of type 0 for certain purchases of health products, I must insist that you do not, once again, take into account those elements which are not the subject of delivery, but of the provision of services. I'll explain myself. When buying a disposable operating gown, it pays 0 %, but when using an operating gown that is recyclable and reused on several occasions, it pays 21 %. That is why we are not promoting the circular economy. We have repeatedly asked, we have not been able to listen to each other, but we are going to do it again. We are going to table amendments, the problem is that the first amendment we have tabled has not yet been tabled, although almost eight months ago.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-13-CD210513.u80	Your Honor, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-13-CD210513.u81	Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-13-CD210513.u82	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Capdevila i Esteve has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-13-CD210513.u83	Hey, Vice President, we're the old ones. I ended up quoting Rudyard Kipling, because I thought we would take advantage of today's mechanics to try to discuss a little bit, but we continued with the frontal system. I was talking to you about Baloo and Mowgli, I think that today Baloo would say to you Mowgli that you are very unserious and that, sadly, it has an impact on the economy and the well-being of people, particularly the weakest people on the basis of some - forgive me - 'legislative fists' that pervert urgency and necessity. Today, among these noble walls, urgency and necessity are translated into: run, run, and we are fined for not having done the duties. [[The lady]] You intend today to validate a royal decree-law of nothing more and nothing less than 176 pages, and you pretend that in seven minutes I argue; this is brutal. [[shows a document]] It will not be the It is the first time that we have seen this practice of the Executive, it is historical its use by the PP, and it was abhorred and encrypted by Don Isidro Martínez Oblanca on half a hundred occasions, that is, there is recidivism. We could describe it as at least very unfaithful to the Legislature, which you don't even call before publication. They must think we'll find it in the papers or in the official newspaper. With the excuse that the fines come from Europe, for not having done the duties in time, they pretend that we approve without reching and without touching a coma each of the rules that you have transposed in your own way in a real decree. They will tell us: calm down, if there are some aspects you like, we will process it as a bill and arrange it. But this has already happened, and you are not reliable, you have not fulfilled. We again denounce today that Royal Decree 3/2020- a little fatter than today's - remains paralyzed in the Bureau. A royal decree that was validated on February 20, 2020 and processed as a bill, but fifteen months later it follows. They have not been open to negotiating anything, to changing anything, or to putting an end to the emptying of the powers of the Generalitat de Catalunya, which it has in terms of insurance at the time. Again, political bias, fuelled by a Jacobinist and uniformizing view of the state, is what we see in the transposition of European directives. To be honest, we don't like them. The top is Title VII, which will expire in January 2022. You haven't heard anyone, and nobody's nobody. We have so many topics to talk about in two minutes, it's hard. On money-laundering, the prevention of money-laundering of accounts located abroad, of virtual currencies that are not included in the obligation to declare, are forgotten. This Member, as rapporteur who has been, I think he is going for the third time that he sees him, if this is finally dealt with. Article 348 bis of the Capital Societies Act re-manoeuvring it with a 'unless otherwise provided in the statutes'. Mr Paniagua and I will surely, if you give us the opportunity, talk to you about the spirit of the legislator. With regard to telecommunications, they amended the General Telecommunications Act by extending the duration of concessions from twenty to forty years to meet telephone demands. This title is particularly pro-oligopolic. Nothing new. They're already preparing Telefónica and the big guys a custom suit with the 5G auction. As far as environmental issues are concerned, which are most urgent and of extraordinary necessity in order to put an end to the aggravation suffered by companies such as Falset by the temporary Filomena, we are already going for three months. Speaking of urgency and necessity, out of urgent need I understand cutting IBEX's defaults, 850 million that have not charged in time and form SMEs. The waiting time already exceeds the year - Mr Bel has said - for your procedure in this House. More than a year in which the PSOE and colleagues, Podemos also, maintain and sustain this scourge of the economy in the Bureau. This unprecedented abuse throughout Europe of the great ones over the small ones, of the Bernabéu stage on which the blinds really get up and up, to which only you are present in your speeches. For all these reasons, gentlemen of the Government, because it does not seem fair to us to be imposed here on more than eight totally different subjects without the opportunity to move a coma, because we do not like the powers of the autonomous communities being violated and because - forgive me - we no longer believe them, today we are not going to support this royal decree-law. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-13-CD210513.u84	Thank you very much, Mr. Capdevila. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much. Mr Gómez-Reino Varela has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in common.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-13-CD210513.u85	Good morning, Madam President. Good morning, Madam Vice President. In this House we have to talk about the issues of concern to the citizens and I believe that both I and probably the majority of the citizens - they will allow me to start with this - we are very concerned about the images that are coming from the Middle East, Jerusalem, Palestine and Gaza, as they are humanly tearing. I know it's not what we need to talk about, but I want to say that images of displaced families, images of bombarded civilians have to challenge us all. So, if, as Isaac Rabin said or Vittorio Arrigoni too, we remain human, let us work for the cessation of violence, let us work for the cessation of human rights violations in Gaza and Palestine. [[Applauds]] Having said that, today we are discussing the validation of Royal Decree-Law 7/2021, which transposes into state law a set of directives of the European Union binding on all Member States. In this way, beyond the obvious pressures, the Government is making an effort to comply consistently with the objectives of transposing European directives within the deadlines, something - and it must be remembered - which did not make previous conservative governments and which has led to the opening of numerous dossiers by the European Commission and the payment of large debts. The good management that precedes us left without transposing a total of thirty-one European regulations, fourteen of them in economic matters, which should, of course, have helped to emerge from the crisis that this country has suffered over the past ten years. And we are not talking about any issues, we are talking about the law on real estate credit, the law on markets and financial instruments, the fight against fraud, tax avoidance, the operation of the railway system, pension plans, insurance, financial markets, payment services, etc. Firstly, the transposition of the legislation to strengthen the protection of persons displaced by work, which seeks a better balance between the freedom to provide services and the guarantee of the rights of workers, is obviously good news. The legal coverage of these persons is extended both in the regulatory field and in the implementation of sectoral agreements and the principle of equal remuneration and treatment between employees of one company and subcontractors from other countries through ETT is established. The work of the Labour Inspectorate is also strengthened and coordination with inspection bodies in other countries is facilitated. This avoids policies and practices of labour exploitation and discriminatory treatment of workers on the basis of their origin and, as a European directive, this serves both the nationals of other countries who come to work here and the Spaniards and Spaniards who are forced to emigrate to other European countries on labour grounds. In the area of taxation, the bureaucratic and economic burden for companies and professionals engaged in cross-border sales is alleviated, but perhaps the most important thing in this area is the measures for the control of cross-border VAT fraud and the determination that VAT is taxed in the country of destination. This is a measure that matters and is positive, because it prevents large global electronic commerce operators from circumventing taxes by establishing their headquarters in tax havens. From now on, they will have to tax in this country the services and sales they make in this country. The transposition of the Money Laundering Prevention Directive serves the development of information, transparency and control systems with better identification of the actual holders of legal persons and business and banking entities likely to carry out these illegal practices. I would like to point out one point, one point in this directive. It is true that it is very particular, but we are concerned about the situation of art galleries, which are small and medium-sized enterprises that have moved us which do not understand how this directive can burden them with bureaucracy and we believe that we must work to resolve this issue. In terms of competences, CNMC's powers and coordination with its counterparts in other countries are increased, ensuring better functioning of the internal market and helping to limit the development of oligopolistic positions in certain sectors. Finally, we would also like to focus on updating credit institution solvency and resolution regulations. The capitalisation requirements of both systemic and other banking entities are increased by delimiting the mandatory leverage ratio and the loss absorbing capacity requirement. All this offers greater stability to the financial system, advances in the configuration of a banking union and the pooling of risks at Community level, and protects both public and taxpayers' coffers from future banking crises. This progress is being made in the implementation of the agreements reached, of course, at parliamentary level following the Committee of Inquiry into the past financial crisis. Overall, we believe that these are regulatory developments that serve to increase market control to ensure economic stability and healthy competition, protect workers from abuse and labour exploitation and put an end to the most corrupt and fraudulent business practices. The market cannot and should not be a jungle. Economic activity must serve the prosperity of societies. Recent history shows that this ultraliberalism that some parties here still profess only produces inequality and economic instability. Fortunately, even within the European framework, more and more institutions and bodies are beginning to take a new path, which is that of the general interest and the safeguarding of it. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-13-CD210513.u86	Thank you very much, Mr. Gómez-Reino. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much. Mr Manso Olivar has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-13-CD210513.u87	Good afternoon, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. As so many people have already spoken before me, I think that they have already learned that today we have come to validate nothing less than ten directives, ten, in a single royal decree, of which we know that five already have the deadlines and procedures for the initiation of dossiers against the Kingdom of Spain opened; another one has a dossier, but in this case for a different reason, because it has been mistransmitted, we have been warned, we have been given a deadline and we have also exceeded that deadline, and we have four other directives, one of which is due on 23 June, okay? and the others on 31 July. That is, we have not come here to pass an omnibus decree, as the Government says, we have come to pass a broom decree. Forgive me, Minister, it's a broom decree. The European Union has found itself in the very troubled government room, basically like a teenager's room, and you're putting all the mess under the table. Look at the eight subjects - I will repeat them -: competition, prevention and money laundering, credit and banking liquidity, right to use public radio space, transnational workers, VAT on distance windows, supplies of digital content and services and environmental liability, almost nothing. Man, the least they could have done - and I took Mr. Capdevila's glove - was to give us the chance to discuss something by passing eight royal decrees, what a minimum. With eight royal decrees we could have devoted at least seven minutes to each subject, not seven minutes to the eight subjects, okay? Here there has been an abuse of the figure of the royal decree, many of you have said so. It is an abuse, because you say it is of urgent and extraordinary necessity, of course, but the urgent and extraordinary necessity you have created it, you have created it! And it is not for me, as Mr. United Left said, that the PP also did these things. In the end, it almost seemed that in this case it was the fault of the PP; no, the fault in this case is all of the Socialist Party. All the deadlines of these directives were approved by governing the Socialist Party, which was the one that was bound. [[Applauds]] That the PP's done yours, too? All right, perfect. Even the mistake of the directive you are correcting is a mistake of Mr Zapatero, even that, okay? So don't tell me things. You have mixed matters and have stolen from the House, I repeat, you have stolen from the House the debate. They had one possibility: at least eight royal decree-laws; nor that. But let's go to more questions. You say we don't have a deadline. But you have been able to draw a law of euthanasia in a short time, for that it was time. There has been a deadline to draw up a law on euthanasia in a short time. [[Applauds]] You are stealing the debate in the House, you are stealing it and the European technocracy is stealing it. The procedure for the adoption of directives, which are of Parliament and the Council, suffers from the most basic principles of a rule of law. What are the governments in Europe doing by participating in legislation, not in the legislative initiative, as you have here, which is something else, but by legislation? That is the only reason why the Chambers should be very demanding with everything that comes, and there is no right for you to hang this through the back door. Okay? So much anti-fascist alert. Indeed, if there is an anti-fascist warning, it is that of the European technocracy. [[Applauds]] I think European technocracy is very good, but you do not forget that national sovereignty resides in national parliaments; you have stolen it from us there and now you are participating in that theft by placing ten royal decrees on them by way of urgency. Even so, we are going to approve it - perhaps because I and not Professor Sánchez García, who is a more severe teacher than I - so that we do not have what happened to us days ago, that we have been fined 15 million - you know that now the fines are flat and those 15 million no longer take them away from us, another thing is the 89 000 daily, so how much more quickly we give ourselves, better - but we are going to demand that, please, it be treated as a bill urgently and we ask the Government to support it. Having said that, we cannot allow the House to rest on the government's initiative every time a directive is adopted. I, gentlemen of Congress, encourage you that every time a directive is passed we are not all waiting to see if the government in charge, for that which is the responsibility of the State, initiates the corresponding bill. That is why I encourage you that every time a directive is adopted, because of our dignity as legislators, we start the procedure by proposing legislation, because in this way we will avoid the governments playing us the bad past that the government of the nation has played for us today in the person of Mrs Calviño. Thank you so much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-13-CD210513.u88	Thank you very much, Mr. Manso. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Cortés Carballo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-13-CD210513.u89	Thank you, President. Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, could you tell me what is the connection between the banking system, the radio spectrum, VAT on electronic commerce, environmental damage, displaced workers or consumer protection? Hard, right? I will tell you: the connection between all these issues is the incompetence and parliamentary cowardice of this government. [[Applauds]] Today they bring us for validation a royal batiburrillo decree of ten transpositions of directives, all of them, by the way, either with infringement file or about to be initiated by the European Commission; a genuine legislative body. We are the first country in the ranking of non-compliances, with more than a hundred infringement files opened by the European Commission; the vaguest government, which later adapts the laws to the directives of Europe; the most expensive government in history in ministries and offices and, at the same time, the most useless in the whole European Union. How many of these infringement files will result in economic sanctions? At the moment, we have already had to pay 20 million euros for the delay in data protection transposition; with that money more than 43,000 families could have collected the minimum living income. But it quickly entered into the background of the royal decree. One: competition rules. It is a missed opportunity to advance in market unity within our own country. There is still a range of different regulations in the seventeen autonomous communities, 2700 administrative barriers for companies, SMEs and self-employed people to carry out their activities normally in any region of Spain. The CEO himself estimates that Spanish GDP could increase by €55 billion if legislation were unified across the country. You do not even think about regulatory harmonisation, but you love fiscal harmonisation and tax hell. If they want to raise EUR 80 billion, there is no need to tax the pockets of all Spaniards; start with the market unit, which has already seen that this measure alone would amount to EUR 55 billion. Two: prevention of money-laundering and the financing of terrorism. Mr Marlaska has been pushed through one of the main tools to fight terrorism and organized crime, but, of course, the Ministry of the Interior is so busy approaching bloodthirsty ages, ceasing and chasing civilian guards and national police and sending election tweets that he does not have time for what is really important. [[applause]] Three: financial corporations, credit institutions, etc. Already in place, we are failing to protect the employment of the banking sector. The Minister of Labour has abandoned the more than 30 000 employees affected by ERE in the merger processes that you yourself have authorized. The social shield has once again failed with these 30,000 families who will go to unemployment and, in case there are few, have condemned rural Spain even more with the massive closure of banking offices. [[Applauds]] Another specific ministry, the Demographic Challenge, is dedicated to anything but fighting depopulation. Four: radio public domain. That's an example of leniency and improvisation. It takes you two years to take out the 5G frequency auction and it turns out that just when you are going to publish it, someone falls into which the current rule limits the concession to a maximum of twenty years, insufficient time to amortize the multi-million dollar investments that operators have to make. Doesn't it seem a little incongruent to plunder the operators with EUR 3 billion and then ask them to run with the deployments? With what money are these companies going to pay for deployment if they're going to leave them blank? Five: on VAT in electronic commerce. The delay in this measure has prevented Spanish companies from saving on compliance costs, which for the whole of Europe is estimated at around 23 billion, in order to manage all their sales in the Union, instead of in each of the countries, through a single VAT register. There was time to think about how to fry Spanish taxes, even proposing the abolition of reduced VAT rates. We all pay VAT, Mrs Calviño, regardless of the income and wealth that each has. They don't lie anymore. Six: displaced workers. Once again, with improvisation and desidiy, they forget nothing less than the road transport sector, leaving out of control foreign carriers operating in Spain, maintaining unfair competition from some companies located in countries with low levels of labour and social protection, the so-called mailbox companies. Of course, I do not know what the transporters will have done to Mr Pedro Sánchez, but between this, the abandonment during the pandemic, the rise of the diesel and the new tolls on the roads, the truth is that you have them slashed. [[Applauds]] Seven: the relationship with the prevention and repair of environmental damage. This is one of the key measures to be able to characterise itself as affected in possible disputes; for example, the fisheries sector in the face of environmental damage at sea. Madam Minister of Ecological Transition - we have her here - haven't you had time in two years to do this? I was busy modifying the electric rates, but not lowering the cost of light, the most expensive in the last eight years. The new rate that came into effect on June 1 will be more expensive, leaving the valley section between 12 o'clock in the evening and 8 o'clock in the morning. Are you waiting for the Spaniards to cook, put on the washing machine, or iron at three in the morning? Can a greater exercise of cynicism be done? Point eight and last: the defence of consumers and users, the maximum exponent of futility and parliamentary cowardice. They do not ask the sector, they do not allow allegations, there is no parliamentary debate: communism in its purest state. [[Applauds]] The Spaniards wonder what the Ministry of Consumer Affairs is for. No relevant measures are known to him, and for a bill they have to take, they do so by decree, even though this transposition is not expired. Mr. Garzón, wherever you are, stop tweeting and talking nonsense and get to work. In conclusion, this decree is a piece of legislation that steals the parliamentary debate and prevents citizen participation, improvised, misguided and presented at the last minute of discount. In order to avoid another sanction and because it is voted in bloc, the People's Parliamentary Group will vote in favour, but we will ask that it be treated as a bill to include all the issues that have been left out. To conclude, Mr. Casares, I want to tell you that I see you a little aggressive. Relax and enjoy these remaining months as a Member of Parliament, because with its history of dwindling results, first in the City Hall of Santander and then in Congress for Cantabria, I am afraid I will never see you again in the next legislature. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-13-CD210513.u90	Thank you very much, Mr. Cortés. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much. For the Socialist Group, Mrs Blanquer Alcaraz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-13-CD210513.u91	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, as early as 1950, Schumann, one of the parents of the construction of Europe, said in his famous statement: 'Europe will not be made at once in an overall work: it will be made thanks to concrete achievements'. Well, today we approve concrete achievements in the form of transposition of a number of directives. We do so with the urgency of faithfully complying with European legislation, but also with the commitment of this government to speed up standards that are important to our country. It contains heterogeneous issues in the sector, yes, but with a common link: they reflect the European commitment of our Government to give a joint European response to citizens, to companies in the face of the complexities of globalisation and the great challenges of the 21st century; responses in the form of measures that we incorporate into our internal legal order through a real decree-law that, through its processing as a bill, will allow us to ensure debate and make constructive contributions. So let us not steal the debate, there is no abuse, there is no contempt, and if so bad, why will they vote in favour? It is clear that this royal decree-law is neither improvised nor, of course, stealing any kind of debate. We've heard them very well. The constant emergence of new needs justifies the revision of the common European legislation in our country. We therefore comply with the transposition, but we also approve updated solutions. According to OCU studies, in 2020 63% of Spaniards have resorted to online shopping, which has been triggered by the pandemic and mobility restrictions. Hence, it is important to update the General Law for the Defense of Consumers and Users to the new challenges of consumer relations, in terms of guarantees. The rise of online shopping has also forced us to make a greater effort in our country of technological adaptation to implement harmonised procedures, so that all European countries can have common taxation rules in electronic commerce; a remarkable effort that, ladies and gentlemen, is worth it, as it will allow us in cross-border operations to facilitate VAT declarations in the European Union through a single window portal and to ensure their payment where the goods are consumed or where the services for which they are paid are provided. Quite a step forward, as the Economic Vice-President explained very well. These measures will improve public revenue and eliminate distortions of competition by establishing a level playing field between companies in the European Union and those in third countries. By the way, I was not going to mention this, but the zero VAT for health products is extended until the end of December, also in a harmonised way, as we are doing with the rest of the European countries. On the other hand, I would also like to point out that the United Nations recently published that money-laundering at the international level already extended to 2.7% of the world's wealth, a great scourge for insolidary society and generating inequality and inequality. Hence the relevance of the transposition of the so-called Fifth Money Laundering Directive, which we validate today and which brings about shared, coordinated and interconnected preventive solutions. I would also like to highlight the measures introduced to advance the proper and better functioning of the internal market, in terms of transparency, free and fair competition, without forgetting, as well as not forgetting, the protection of the labour rights of displaced workers; better transposition before responsibilities for environmental damage; guarantees to ensure the solvency of the financial system, as important at a time like the present, and to give greater stability to investments in the new generation of technologies. They are all, therefore, precisely to give answers to citizens and to give answers to businesses. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, regulatory adaptation to reality, in constant change, is always slower than desirable, and if we add to it the circumstances of the pandemic, urgency is imposed. Does it not draw your attention, ladies and gentlemen, that none of the opposition groups have spoken precisely of the pandemic that still forces us to wear masks? No one's talked about the pandemic! [[Applauds]] These months the priority of the Government of Spain has been precisely to give people answers to the health, social and economic impact caused by the pandemic. Leave? What kind of cowardice are you talking to me about? Some of the criticisms heard, indeed, seem very disproportionate to me, given the context in which we are moving, especially on the part of the People's Party. It seems to me a boldness and a irresponsibility to come here, in a debate of these characteristics, at European level, and to talk to us about the way it is talking to us. Look, just one thing: with the government of Mariano Rajoy - by the way, which many of you supported - Spain was leading the sanctions for European violations. Today, on the contrary, what we are doing are plans, plans to drive solutions, plans to improve. [[Applauds]] The difference in terms of credibility and responsibility is clear. Look, the government is focused on getting out of the crisis, and what I'm very sorry for is seeing this right-wing centered on using the crisis as a bold weapon that allows them to collect electoral revenue. Stop thinking about votes and think about people, as this government is doing. In fact, they should already recognize that if the measures to support government-driven workers, self-employed people and families had not been adopted, the fall in gross domestic product by 2020 would have been greater, more than 25%, and many more jobs would have been destroyed. Do at least the favor of recognizing what is a truth. Moreover, the forecasts indicate Spain's greatest growth among the European countries for this year; a scenario far removed from the apocalyptic panorama that always gives us the right in this Parliament. So, as bad as it may be, this government has shown its weight in Europe; this is the only way to explain that it has obtained EUR 140 billion from European funds. Spain is doing its homework; there is transparency and social dialogue. It is an opportunity, ladies and gentlemen, that we cannot miss and therefore encourage you to change your tone and begin to add. That is why I end up as I started, invoking the European spirit. As Jean Monet said, Europe is always built in a crisis, and this crisis has shown that we need more Europe in order to meet together the great challenges and risks that haunt us. Let us make it stronger also with the validation of this royal decree-law, for commitment, for responsibility and for common benefit. The Socialists will approve it with conviction. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-13-CD210513.u92	Thank you very much, Mrs Blanquer. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-13-CD210513.u93	Ladies and gentlemen, we continue to debate the amendments adopted by the Senate to the climate change and energy transition bill. Mr Gimeno, first of all, is speaking for the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-13-CD210513.u94	President, ladies and gentlemen, Vice-President, the climate change and energy transition law represents a radical advance in the country's economy, although in many respects it is late for its own purpose; it is late and, for example, neglects a minimal territorial planning of the deployment of renewables it promotes. We have worked in Congress and in the Senate to adapt the law to the reality of the territories that will produce most of the electricity; we have only partially succeeded, but we will support the law. The law promotes the electrification of the energy sector and the National Integrated Energy and Climate Plan sets the installed power by 2030 at 157 megawatts; that is, 60 gigawatts of new installation. For that deployment, now article 25, after the presentation took over our amendment, says the following. Rural development: agricultural policy, forestry policy and renewable energy; specifying in its second paragraph that the deployment of renewable energy should be carried out in a manner consistent with the conservation of natural heritage and appropriate territorial management. To this end, it will seek to reverse part of the wealth generated in the territory where the said deployment is carried out in order to activate its economy and combat the demographic decline, and that is all. There's no more regulation. However, the real facts are: first, the proposals authorized to install new photovoltaic plants and wind power plants duplicate the installed power needs set by the National Climate and Energy Plan; second, an accelerated installation is taking place at an annual rate of more than 6 gigawatts; third, the promotion is carried out exclusively by projects of large electricity companies or new actors that are investment groups; fourth, the distributed generation is not promoted; fifth, the equidistribution of benefits and burdens with the local community is not regulated; sixth, there is insufficient environmental control so that the reality is that the plants can be installed in protected areas or in areas of landscape value and without attention to territorial management or sustainable tourism; seventh, facilities that must combat a global problem and plants whose effects and dimensions clearly exceed the municipal territorial limits are regulated by autonomous or local competences in small municipalities. Ladies and gentlemen, the deployment of renewables is a radical transformation that affects more than 160 000 hectares, which converts the use of agricultural land, pastures or mountains into an industrial or semi-industrial area, without specific regulation with a territorial planning regulation that did not provide for it when it was drafted. Spanish legislation on land-use change, whose effects not only affect the owner of the land, but also represent a lucrative use of the environment - i.e. a common good - sets out procedures such as those governing urban management. That is, in urban planning the promoter must fully adjust to the environmental plans - ZEPA, Red Natura, etc. -; it must minimize its impact.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-13-CD210513.u95	Your Honor, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-13-CD210513.u96	It must pay the owner of the land on the basis of profit, delivering 15% of the profit to the Administration and compensate for the impact of the natural environment. To remedy this deficiency and to achieve those objectives, we have registered a GNP that proposes to regulate the deployment of planning with a road map for renewable energy. Countries such as Denmark, Germany and the United Kingdom regulate it, match the distributed generation of small promoters with large projects, respect environmental regulations and compensate the local community. We have a place to learn. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-13-CD210513.u97	Thank you very much, Mr. Guitarte. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the same group, Mr Botran Pahissa has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-13-CD210513.u98	Thank you, President. I will not comment on the amendments, but on the final vote on the climate change law. We are going to abstain in order to express a criticism of a law that is already born obsolete, and that is far behind the reality of the climate emergency. The most glaring example is the reduction of emissions. It is proposed, taking 1990 as an index, to reduce emissions by 23% by 2030. This is far below, for example, what the new administration in the United States has proposed, 43%, what the European Parliament voted - including also the MEPs in the PSOE -, which voted 60% and was finally 55%, and is ultimately below reality itself. The German Constitutional Court, for example, has returned the law to Parliament, it has not considered it sufficient precisely because it considered that emission rates were not in line with the law of future generations. What a difference with the Spanish Constitutional Court, which suspended the Catalan law on climate change, which, for example, set the duty to reduce emissions by 40%. Catalonia is suspended its law, which is more advanced, and then a Spanish law is made that is far below what was passed in Catalonia, but rather what is necessary to reduce emissions. The reasons for this obsolescence are that the ecological transition cannot be made by the hand of IBEX. Without IBEX or against IBEX it is very difficult to make the ecological transition, but with IBEX it is directly impossible. What do I mean by that? I am referring to the fact that these companies, which live more than fossil fuels, have been pressuring to reduce the emission percentages, but then also the sectors of IBEX, which have already been painted green-especially the electricity generators -, can also not be conditioning the steps towards this ecological transition, deciding where these wind farms are installed according to their benefits, where the soil is cheaper, although then everything indicates that transporting energy is an inefficient way of consuming energy, the place of production should be brought closer to the place of consumption. It is a mistake to think that the solution for climate change is technological substitution, changing the way we produce electricity, because this is not the problem. The fundamental problem is that everything we do with fossil fuels cannot be replaced by electricity. The best example of this is the car, you cannot replace the entire vehicle fleet, among many other reasons because there are other scarce goods involved in the manufacture of the electric car, such as cobalt or lithium. Any honest strategy against the climate emergency implies decreasing, means relocating the economic activity and diminishing the logistic networks and, instead, we are living examples of quite the opposite as, to quote one, that of the expansion of the port of Valencia. It also implies a rationalization of transport, something that is not mentioned very much in this law; the promotion of rail transport is left for a law of the future. It also implies a much more determined policy - this is what I was starting with - of reducing emissions. But that requires putting limits on big capital, it requires a material decline in the economy in a progressive way, which decreases more who has been consuming the most. That's what I'm saying from the point of view...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-13-CD210513.u99	Your Honor, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-13-CD210513.u100	... of countries and also of social classes. But this, in short, cannot be done by the hand of IBEX.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-13-CD210513.u101	Thank you very much. Mr Ruiz de Pinedo has the floor for the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-13-CD210513.u102	Good morning, egun on. The adoption of this law on climate change and ecological transition is now complete, and today we and we, in line with the position that Euskal Herria Bildu has been holding and that we have always expressed with our positive vote, reaffirm this vote, as well as in this speech I want to make a number of considerations. The first is that having this climate change law is not only necessary, it is essential. [[The lady]] We believe that we live at a historic crossroads for the environment, for the planet, and we cannot continue to produce at the pace and form we are doing so far. To produce in the way we are doing, above the regeneration rhythms of the planet itself, is simply untenable, unsustainable. Today, practically no one, except climate change negators and deniers, dares to deny the obvious: the planet is on the verge of collapse and we must act and do it now. That's why we backed this law. The second consideration is to remember that this law is born with important limits in its effectiveness, as they are pointing us out from the ecological movement. You could and should go beyond that. To have gone further, for example, in the objectives, in the percentages of reducing polluting gases. Those who are included in this law, ladies and gentlemen, are going to be very racist in the face of the challenge we face. And it is that we are facing a great expoliation of the planet, of our land, of gure Ama Lurra; it is centuries of exploitation, of eskilmation, that need quick answers. We need more ambition and we demand it and we will continue to do so. We do not share some of the limitations of this law. The urgent need to change the direction of our industrial and energy model is not conciliable with the fact that it is left within the limits of the capacity to impose taxes or taxes, in those practices that are doing the most harm, such as, for example, the issue of the abolition of the diesel tax, a good example of these limitations. The third consideration is that, despite these limitations, in order to try to be fair and fair, we can say that the law contemplates progress in terms of environmental justice, monitoring and respect for the coasts and the natural environment, which are pending subjects in this society. There are other advances that we cannot deny. For us and for us, for the people of the left, sovereignist, Basque independenceist - and especially for Alava - the greatest practical advance that we observe and celebrate is the possibility that opens us up to prevent, from now, at this moment, a stop to the serious environmental aggressions in our territory, some of an irreversible nature. One example is the ban on the exploitation of fracking. With this law we respond to a major social demand in Araba in recent years. The most advanced fracking project in the Basque Country is being developed in our territory, and efforts are being made on and under a very important and strategic aquifer in our territory. Today the people who defend and defend in Álava a Euskal Herria free of fracking are congratulated. We therefore congratulate the social movements that have been defending this struggle and that we can say that they have won. Zorionak to the social movement Fracking and Araba. Zorionak, citizens of Araba. This nightmare is finally ending. Another important practical issue that should be prevented by this law is that Alaves mountains, which are very important from an environmental point of view, such as Iturrieta or the Arkamo mountain range, become a preferred location for Basque wind farms. From our point of view, development of renewable energy alternatives, yes, but not at any price. The deployment of renewable energy projects should be carried out at sites with the least impact. This law obliges the Ministry of Ecological Transition and the Demographic Challenge and the Autonomous Communities to ensure this. I'm on my way. This law doesn't solve everything. It does not fix or give answers to all the challenges that, as a society and species, we will have to solve in order for this planet to have a future, but with this law and with the demanding attitude of respect for the environment, in clear ecological and eco-socialist perspective, we are more and better equipped than before to have a better future for all. For all this, mila esker, let us give our positive vote to this law.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-13-CD210513.u103	Thank you very much, Mr Ruiz de Pinedo. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-13-CD210513.u104	Thank you, President. Eguerdi on, Vice President. We will vote in favour of this law, we have done so, we have already voted on the amendments that come from the Senate also in the affirmative, because we believe that the text has been improved. It is a necessary, urgent law, because it will provide legal cover for the process of profound transformation that implies the decarbonization of the economy, a law that will guide the actions and investment decisions of the different actors of the economy; a law, of course, which should serve to take advantage of the opportunities arising from that decarbonization. A law containing some amendments tabled by this group, which sought not only to take into account environmental, energy, but also the economic model of industrial restructuring, employment, territorial cohesion and competitiveness of enterprises. Because for my group the energy transition, of course, must be carried out with the help of an innovative, sustainable industrial technological policy, but which is also capable of generating quality jobs and, of course, building consensus. If something else has taught us the pandemic is the need to have a strong industry, and this is not in conflict with environmental sustainability, energy transition, industrial policy or R & D+I, establishing support mechanisms for industry to gain in competitiveness and positioning. It is about accompanying the times, the rhythms, and with solutions to decarbonize according to the specific reality of each region. We cannot forget that this is a transitional law, and to go through it is to go from one point to another by certain means. In the transitions there are no possible changes from a certain level to perhaps so radical overnight. In this case the process counts. A just transition yes, but we believe that taking into account the reality from which we start and not the reality from which we want to leave. But the majority here today are the ones. We continue to believe that the energy transition should take into account technological neutrality, because the most appropriate technological solutions will change due to technological advances, and we therefore believe that technologies should not be defined without making the best use of multitechnology. This does not, of course, prevent certain technologies from being and must be supported, but what we cannot do is discourage the research of others to make them cleaner. Here we have a clear example now in Germany with blue petrol, low carbon fuel, carbon neutral, which will not replace the electromobility, but will complement it, and the use of these fuels makes sense of course in some modes of transport, but especially in those for which there is not yet a clear and economic path towards electrification. This is what we usually refer to when we speak in this sense. A climate change law that will involve many challenges and that will continue to require much listening, dialogue and consensus to carry out, above all, certain provisions that have been regulated, such as the reform of the electricity sector. Smart government regulation will therefore be necessary to achieve certainty and security in investment, and dialogue and consensus will therefore also be required afterward. I would also like to say to you today that we will be very careful to implement an amendment to devote up to 25% of the revenue in emission allowances auctions to indirect CO2 compensation, as the European Commission allows, and whose aim is to improve the competitiveness of the productive sectors. By the way, an amendment that was agreed and adopted with 29 votes by all political groups, less by VOX, which, however, Mr Uralde, spokesman Miren Gorrotxategi in Euskadi spoke, on account of this amendment, of a millionaire gift to these companies broadcasting CO2. I think it must be said that it is not true, that we have all adopted an amendment here. And it is also an amendment that is approved by Europe so that companies can compete on more equal terms with their European counterparts. Please also tell him that not only has an amendment from this group been adopted, but that quite a few more amendments have been adopted and, in addition, many have also been negotiated with his group. More than anything to keep him in mind. On the other hand, I say to you that we also want to make a call for coherence, because if a clear bet is made on renewables, given the need to give priority to the development of these renewables, of course, we believe that we cannot fail to support an orderly and respectful development with the biodiversity of wind farms or photovoltaic plants. In this respect, I believe that all governments are going to be respectful of biodiversity, of the construction of these wind farms and, therefore, of the conservation of the natural heritage where they are established; I would like this not to be called into question. We are aware of the importance of this law. We have tried to contribute with a participatory and constructive will. Is the law necessary? Yeah. Is the law complete? Does the law address the issue as a whole and as a whole? Is the law ambitious enough? It is clear that it is not the law that we might have proposed, but, as I have said, many of our contributions have been taken into account, which have given rise to some consensus and, of course, we understand that it will be better and reviewable in the developments to which it refers. Legislation on this subject is peremptory. We consider it better to have this law than not to have any. These are the reasons why this group is going to vote in favour of this law and the amendments that come here today from the Senate. From here I would like to thank all the parliamentary groups for their contributions and the groups of the Government, both the Socialist Group and Podemos, for meeting the demands of this group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-13-CD210513.u105	Thank you very much, Mrs. Sagastizabal. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Martínez Granados has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-13-CD210513.u106	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, minister. Ladies and gentlemen, today the climate change law returns to Congress, after it has been dealt with in the Senate, without a doubt a necessary law. It is undeniable evidence that the effects of climate change have for many years, and increasingly, had a greater and more obvious impact on the climatology and health of people: brine like Filomena, torrential rains, heat waves, drought; it seems a lie that there are still people who do not see evidence in their effects and in the numerous scientific studies that manifest it. It is curious that there are still political parties that deny this evidence, speak with so little rigour of such a serious problem and, moreover, vote no to this law. There are many people, associations, organizations that have been working for years on the environment and the fight against climate change. With so many of them we have been able to gather, talk and work on this law. I thank all of them for their work, for their involvement and for all that they have contributed to us throughout the course of this law. This law will be a starting point for our country on a long way to combat climate change and decarbonization, a law that will play a very important role in bringing about the adaptation of all productive sectors in order to achieve this transition in the best possible way. It is a completely transversal law, it affects all the productive sectors of our country, and it will affect each of us in our daily lives, but it is certainly necessary because we must work firmly for the future of the new and future generations. But is it the best law we could have, the best law possible? Clearly not. He is late - we all agree on that -, he lacks ambition and rigour. The government has only wanted to be ambitious in setting emission targets and has lacked courage to introduce certain important elements that we have tried to introduce with our amendments. It cannot be ambitious without putting the necessary means in place to achieve these objectives, even less can it be ambitious if, in addition to not helping, people and companies who want to hold their backs in achieving these objectives, which we know have already been working on this law in advance to get to them. The absence of technological neutrality in the law is probably one of the best examples. A rigorous approach in this law would have meant that any technology contributing to the achievement of the objectives, mainly emissions reduction, would have been encouraged. The legislator is not omniscient, so he should not predetermine what technologies will be the solution to five, ten or thirty years, nor can he know how each of them will develop. But there are more examples of rigor. To quote some, I will mention the legal uncertainty in several of the forecasts, such as the committee of experts, for example, whose appointment is left to the government's discretion, to a later regulation, which can be modified - eye - when other governments arrive, which will create insecurity and there will be modifications of this committee of experts, which should be technical and scientific, because they will guide us in the future in the possible changes that may occur. If there is something very important missing from this law, it is certainly consensus. When a law is going to affect so many aspects of a country's economic and social life - electricity generation, industry, transport, construction, public administration and a long time ago - consensus is not desirable, it is essential. The lack of consensus jeopardizes the stability of this law in the future, because there will always be the possibility of a change of Government alluding to this lack of consensus and wanting to amend it in a few years' time. This government, in particular Minister Ribera, will be responsible for making this law - which has, in addition to global implications, implications for achieving environmental objectives and also important economic implications - a party game for future governments, as has happened with the Education Act in this country, which has changed on countless occasions with very important consequences for our society. My group has tabled fifty-three amendments, and among all the more than seven hundred groups. Please note, ladies and gentlemen, whether it was the wish of all parties to join and seek consensus that there were numerous and different amendments to a law like this. We in the Commission are already defending all of them. Today, because I don't have time, I won't be able to expose them all, but I do want to highlight the last amendment that citizens have been negotiating until the last minute for approval in the Senate, given its importance. I am referring to the amendment to article 20 - in the enumeration that came to the Senate - which sought to amend the Coast Law, and created serious legal uncertainty in terms of time limits for concessions for the occupation of maritime-terrestrial domain. Throughout the paper we have looked for ways to change this article, trying to negotiate with all political forces, and it was not until almost the last minute when we got it to go ahead, with most of the support of the groups in this House and the Senate. But surprisingly we were left out of that vote by the People's Party. Mr Gato, Mr Requena, Mr Mariscal, will you be able to vote in favour of this amendment because it solves a lot of the problems of many people who are active in these places, and of course also a lot of Galicians. It is a pity that the Government has been able to have more ideology than responsibility. For the adoption of this law the consensus was the golden brooch. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-13-CD210513.u107	Thank you very much, Mrs. Martínez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, first of all, Mr Rego Candamil.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-13-CD210513.u108	Thank you, Madam President. The BNG regrets that in a law of this importance, at least in the case of Galicia, for the impeccability of the PSOE to keep intact an article harmful to our socio-economic interests, the whole debate revolves around that article and not on how to achieve a norm that was both environmentally ambitious and socially just, as the BNG claimed with more than thirty amendments. Among them, the BNG defends a transaction that excluded from the provision of Article 18-now 20- to all the activities of the complex sea-industry, which brings together hundreds of small enterprises and thousands of jobs that can be seen at risk with this new regulation. PSOE and Podemos voted against and now accepts an amendment from Citizens in the Senate that does not solve the substantive problem. But we also denounce the hypocritical attitude of the People's Party, which, being able to save our country's sea-industry sector with its vote, preferred to vote against, showing that the only thing he was interested in was defending Ence's interests, in his claim to continue irregularly in the ria of Pontevedra. The PP made it clear that the revolving doors work so well and well that it put forward the interests of a large company with which they are linked to those of hundreds of small companies that generate activity and jobs throughout the Galician coast. The new wording of Article 20, as we say, does not do well, but we are going to abstain to show our disagreement with the Government's lack of interest in defending our sea-industry sector. In relation to the others, in some cases we will vote in favour and, in others, we will abstain, because today we are only voting on the Senate amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-13-CD210513.u109	Thank you very much, Mr. Rego. For the same parliamentary group, Mrs Sabanes Nadal has the floor. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-13-CD210513.u110	Thank you, President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today the process of the climate change and energy transition law ends, which is of great importance for the future of our country, which is obviously indispensable and which comes ten years late. Despite all this, the main demand and improvement that the law needed, which is to increase ambition, increase ambition, increase ambition to fight decisively and courageously against the climate emergency, has not been incorporated. Ten years ago this law would have been a very advanced law, but today we are in declared emergency and science, society, environmental organizations, youth and the pandemic warn us that we need to step on the accelerator of legislative changes, because time is running out. This is a law that is born outmoded, tired and goes too slowly. The Conservative Government of Germany announces that it will advance its climate neutrality and reduce its emissions by 65%. Science and organisations ask us 55%, Spain scores 23% and government parties applaud themselves as if it were a great victory. It's not. Do you really think that, with the acceleration of the countries in our environment, we are not going to sit back again, on the tail of Europe? In any case, what I want to say to you is that, from our critical, assertive, active and activist abstention, we will continue to push, monitor and evaluate for the implementation of the law to be rigorous and high. Above all, as a green alternative, like More Country-Greens Equo, we will continue to demand resolute and courageous policies that care for the health of people and the future of the planet. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-13-CD210513.u111	Thank you very much, Mrs. Sabanes. Finally, Mrs Calvo Gómez has the floor for the Plural Parliamentary Group. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-13-CD210513.u112	Thank you very much, President. Today we will vote yes to the state law on climate change, after eleven months of debate in the Commission and to proceed, instead, by urgent procedure, to the stage of amendments - almost six hundred - in the Senate. That is, we have parked a year, in total, the climate emergency, despite the importance of the passage of time, which is our time, our future, in territories like the Delta de l'Ebre, where we are losing the landscape in the face of the government's inaction regarding the management of sediments at the mouth. The Delta de l'Ebre, which is the largest aquatic area in Catalonia and is one of the most important in Europe, is one meter away, one meter away! from the water level, to disappear. We continue to wonder why the ministry has rejected the substantial allegations made by the Government of the Generalitat in the outline of the Hydrological Plan. It is also urgent to resolve the loss of biodiversity in the Llobregat Delta, as a result of the expansion of the port and the airport of Barcelona. Currently, the Generalitat de Catalunya is working on the expansion of the natural reserves and the Special Protection Areas for Birds, the ZEPA, and is working on the plan for the protection of the natural environment and the landscape, but the State has to act swiftly, as its corrective and compensatory measures have not been sufficient to prevent deterioration, pollution and alteration of habitats and, consequently, the decline of protected species. So we hope that the adoption of the climate change law today will speed up the adaptation work of the territories at risk. As you can see, ours is a yes in many ways trapped in frustration. We would have wanted a more ambitious law, as some colleagues have already said. Spain commits itself, for example, to the reduction of 23 % of greenhouse gases by 2030, when - let us remember - the collective objective of the European Union is 55 %. We would have preferred a text closer to the Catalan Climate Change Act that the Catalan Parliament passed in 2017, cut into fifteen articles by the Constitutional Court in 2019. For example, we were not allowed to establish an emission reduction ratio or prohibit fracking, and now it is done with the state climate change law. But there are also things to celebrate. We have managed to prevent the transfer to the ministry of the competence for the final approval of licences of works of nuclear power stations and associated equipment, and it is that, as far as works of general interest are concerned, as the law states - it is true - the ministry will have to ask the municipalities concerned for the mandatory report. In conclusion, I would like to say that we share the concern of the territories of the Terres de l'Ebre and Baix Camp. They doubt that their needs to boost the economy and seek support alternatives in areas close to nuclear power plants for the future are heard, because they suspect that they may be victims of the deafness that usually accompanies Moncloa in matters of general interest, at least when it comes to talking about Catalonia. [[Finish your intervention in Catalan]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-13-CD210513.u113	Thank you, Mrs. Calvo. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the rostrum]] For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Rufián Romero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-13-CD210513.u114	Thank you very much, President. It may be surprising that I am intervening at this point today, but I am here for two reasons. The first, because Joan Capdevila has asked me, who is the one who has cured this law, and what Capi says is going to Mass, never better said, and the second because it is a very important issue for Esquerra Republicana, for this parliamentary group, for this party, and we believe that a clear position should be laid down. Ladies and gentlemen, on this planet there are about eight thousand known animal species, of which about five thousand are in danger, and of those five thousand, about 2200 are in extreme danger of extinction. Of how many animal species are in extreme danger of extinction, do you know which one is most in danger? Do you know which one you've been buying, for decades, more ballots in this extinction raffle? We, ourselves, the human being. The human being is the main endangered animal species, and one day, in this extinction raffle, he will touch us. In fact, according to history, according to the planet and according to statistics, we are unanimously favorite. I know that many people think that the debate on climate change, that the debate on climate change is a kind of Pepito Grillo, a kind of annoyance; that all this we are talking about is the movie of catastrophes that we often see on Sunday afternoons. Well, ladies and gentlemen, what is right and we have to tell these people is that this catastrophe film has arrived, that it is already here, that we have it, that they have it in front of the window, and who doubts all this that he remembers that in January there was more snow in Madrid than in Berlin. It's not normal that in Madrid you take meters and meters of snow off in January, just as it's not normal that at this very moment in Antarctica or Greenland you're melting more ice right now than in decades. It's not normal. Ladies and gentlemen, those responsible have names and surnames: the multinationals and governments that for decades have considered that money was above the planet, as if it could be breathed, as if it could be eaten or as if it could be slept in dollar bills. Is this climate change law the law we would make? No, no, Is this climate change law enough? Neither. We have had one hundred and twenty meetings with platforms in the sector, to which we are, of course, extremely grateful, and have tabled one hundred and fifty amendments. But this law does mean something very important, it is the beginning of something, the beginning of many governments, this Government in particular, being fully aware that something is happening on the planet and that we either stop it or we lose our lives. And it's not just that people don't buy plastic bottles, it's not just that people buy electric cars, the decision goes much further and affects both the industry and the power of this planet. Ladies and gentlemen, we must now collect and fine for carbon emissions, we must stop protecting oil companies and gas companies with public money and, ultimately, we must stop playing Russian roulette with the planet in the name of the free market, because without life there is nothing, not even, I can assure you, market. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm done. This debate is not between parties, this debate is not between institutions, this is not a debate between governments, this is a debate between human beings. The fight for the environment, the fight against climate change is neither rhetorical nor hysteria, it is a fact. We face the struggle of the future, the struggle for the future. Ladies and gentlemen, we can make history or simply history can destroy us. We must be convinced that a clean air and a living climate are not debates, they are not chimeras, they are inherent rights of the human being, fundamental rights of the human being. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-13-CD210513.u115	Thank you very much, Mr. Rufián. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr López de Uralde Garmendia has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podem-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-13-CD210513.u116	Thank you, President. Welcome, Madam Vice President. Today is an important day for Spain. We adopt one of those laws that change the fate of a country, and we will also do so with broad support. For me, as a long-time climate activist, it is an honor to be able to climb this stage today, the day we pass this country's first climate change law. I would like to begin by deeply and wholeheartedly thanking the people who have worked, worked and worked on this law in the Committee on the Ecological Transition and the Demographic Challenge. There is much talk of differences between coalition parties and very little talk of when we work side by side to bring forward laws as important as this. In that regard, I would like to acknowledge the work of Elena Caballero, Eva Bueno and Germán Renau, with whom we have formed a working group to carry out this law, a work that I believe has been of great quality. [[Applauds]] I would also like to thank people like Oscar Matute of EH Bildu, Joan Capdevila of Esquerra Republicana, or Tomás Guitarte of Teruel Existe, who from the beginning have worked positively for the law to move forward. I would also like to highlight the flexibility and good doing of Idoia Sagastizabal and Mari Carmen Martínez, of Citizens, who have been able to understand the importance of the law and who, finally, after much dialogue, have supported and approved the law. I would also like to highlight - rarely is it done, but I think it is welcome this time - the work of the lawyers, because it has not been easy to manage 750 amendments. Therefore, they deserve our recognition, as well as the good work and the work of all the technicians and people of the Ministry of Ecological Transition, headed by Vice President Teresa Ribera, who have also been working very hard with the amendments, with the transactional ones, and all the effort made during these months. [[applause]] I would like to correct the spokesman for the Plural Group. It has not been a year, because it must be remembered that when the law came to Congress, at the same time, the pandemic arrived, unfortunately, and we started working with this law already in the autumn. Therefore, it has been six months, which is a record time to bring forward such a relevant law. I would like to highlight something that has also been the subject of intense dialogue. This law is not the same as it came from the ministry, because in these months we have dialogued with all the groups and many amendments have been adopted. I therefore believe that it is also important to stress that it is a law that is the product of a broad dialogue. In that regard, I think we should congratulate ourselves. The law, of course, establishes a framework for the decarbonisation of our country and the 2050 horizon to achieve this objective, although establishing intermediate objectives aligned with the European strategy. At the same time, economic activity, investment and employment will be generated, and I would like to highlight it. It is a law that will mobilize billions of euros and will generate tens of thousands of jobs. It is very important to highlight this, because often you put the magnifying glass in that small part that is destroyed and you don't look at all that this law is going to create and the incentives it is going to promote. I would like to dwell briefly on two criticisms that have been made. One of them is about the fact that you're late. I agree. Obviously, the law is late. It was necessary a long time ago, but it comes when there has been a government with political will to carry it forward, this coalition government. In fact, the first European climate law was passed in the United Kingdom in 2008, but it is that we were still here with Rajoy's cousin and his little things. In this regard, I would also like to highlight the momentum that we in my group, the United States, have given in these years to the fight against climate change; coming here has been the product of many years of work. Ecologicalism is part of our group's DNA, and it is fair to recognize it. In fact, in 2016, when Rajoy was still ruling, we urged Congress to ratify the Paris Agreement; in 2017 we presented the first proposed climate change law; in 2019, we presented the proposal for a climate emergency declaration, which this Congress unanimously adopted, and now, in 2021, it is an honour for us to be part of this government that approves the first climate change law. Another criticism is on the issue of ambition. I do not think we should say whether or not it is ambitious, because everyone will have their point of view on it, but some comparisons have been made that are incorrect. If we look at the rest of the countries of the European Union, we see that Spain increased its emissions from 1990 to peak in 2007, while the European Union as a whole reduced them by 25%. That means that, today, the effort established by this law is similar to that of other European countries and that if we take the year 2005, which, by the way, is the one that the United States, Joe Biden, is taking, the reduction effort that we have to make is 50,5% of emissions. Therefore, a real effort has been made as a country to reduce emissions, and we need to assess and recognize it. [[Applauds]] In addition, the law takes courageous measures, such as leaving fossil fuels underground or eliminating the majority of uranium. In fact, it is already having positive effects. Without going further - the representative of EH Bildu referred to this - the Basque Government has been forced to end the project of depopulation and exploitation of gas at the gates of Vitoria-Gasteiz which had generated so much rejection in the public opinion of Victoria. I'm running out of time, though I had a lot to say. Now the important thing is that we start a path, in which it is essential that society and the rest of the administrations, the autonomous communities and the municipalities are also involved. Paradoxically, for example, this law comes to save Central Madrid, because it forces the municipalities to establish low-emission zones, but there is also a need for political will. That is why I urge representatives, especially from the People's Party, to commit themselves in their autonomous communities and municipalities to this fight against climate change.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-13-CD210513.u117	Mr. López de Uralde, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-13-CD210513.u118	I'm on my way. Ladies and gentlemen, today is a good day for this country. Thanks to those who made it possible. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-13-CD210513.u119	Thank you very much, Mr López de Uralde. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the VOX Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, Mrs Errás Pabón. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-13-CD210513.u120	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Minister, in recent days the Secretary of State for Economic Affairs, the Head of Economic Analysis of the President's cabinet and the Director of Economic Information of the Government have resigned. The dismemberment and flight of the economic team of this government is only the prelude to the abyss to which they are going to lead the Spaniards and which they intend to sharpen even further with this sectarian law of climate change. The economic situation is'so good' that I imagine it is a matter of time before you start talking about green outbreaks, to the Zapatero. But, as VOX warned, there are many Spaniards who are suffering the consequences of this law that are manifested today in front of Congress. But this government will look elsewhere, as always, and will continue to talk about its ideological agenda, which you call Agenda 2030, while hundreds of Spaniards are losing their jobs and are only demanding, ladies and gentlemen, that they be allowed to work and be allowed to continue with their way of life. [[Applauds]] From VOX we have already warned you that your energy transition policies are only moving towards misery and that it is a matter of time that we begin to see situations throughout Spain like the one we see today at the door of this Congress. Mr Rufián, this is a real tragedy today, not in a hundred years' time, and what we should be dealing with, because we are here to serve the Spaniards, not to sink them into misery, unemployment and unemployment. [[Applauds]] Whole counties, such as that of Puertollano, in Ciudad Real, with a Repsol ERT of almost six hundred people, will suffer the consequences of this government's offensive against fossil fuels, produced in a tax and accelerated way, a deindustrialization to which VOX only opposes to save all these regions from the socialist dream of misery and subsidy. If no one fights for them, let them not worry, because in VOX we are here to fight for them, for each and every one of them; for the workers of Muskiz, in Vizcaya; for those of Tarragona; for the 590 families of the ERTE of Repsol, in Puertollano; for the 112 families of the refinery of La Coruña; for the 400 workers of Ence, in the ria of Pontevedra and its 5000 indirect jobs; for the hundreds of workers of Navacerrada, minister; for the 7,000 families who lived in aluminum in Alcoa, and for the millions of Spanish victims of a way of doing politics that leads to unemployment and misery. [[Applauds]] All these families have a voice here today thanks to this parliamentary group, thanks to VOX. Ladies and gentlemen, we will again hear from you the word negatists, your fetish word against VOX. Because let's say what we say from this parliamentary group really doesn't matter to you, because you're just going to say your sort of sectarian prejudices, which first chew the media of misinformation, then spit them out here and then pick them up in the form of headlines those same media, in an endless vicious circle of that policy that VOX intends to change. But do you know what's going on? That we, unlike the People's Party, do not have the imperative need to like you or to have to ask for forgiveness for existence or to please decadentism progress in its increasingly sectarian ideological obsessions. [[applause]] And yes, I call them decadent, because I have never understood that those who always bring economic, political and social decadence to this country are called progressives. [[Applauds]] On the new text of this law, what I have to say is that the only amendment we will vote for is that of Article 20.4, on the occupation of the maritime-terrestrial public domain, which was an absolute barbarity, which violates legal certainty but which at least in this new version is patched up by eliminating its retroactivity. It was a small detail that had been overlooked and that would have cost employment to thousands of Spanish families living at sea. This law is so highly ideological that it seeks decarbonization by detaching an energy such as nuclear, a clean and safe energy defended by countless ecologists, such as the very Stewart Brand, founder of ecology in the United States. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, the reality is that a nuclear plant cannot be shut down in this country without increasing carbon emissions. Why do they lie to the Spaniards? If nuclear power is shut down, Spain will not be able to meet its environmental commitments, it will increase its emissions and, in addition, it will raise the price of the electricity bill to all Spaniards. Ladies and gentlemen, the alternative you propose to this is to flood Spain with solar and wind farms of an exaggerated extent, contrary, by the way, to what Europe does, which explicitly prohibits it. In the next ten years alone, they have planned to set up photovoltaic parks over 65,000 hectares, which is equivalent to more than 65,000 fields of wasteful football. Where are the left and the ecologists in front of this massive plough of pastures and agricultural productive soil in Spain? Or is it that you are securing your revolving doors for the big electrics and global investment funds, Minister? [[Applauds]] We also have the warning of what has happened in Germany. In 2019 electricity prices were 45% higher than the European average, and no country on the planet has invested more in renewables than Germany. By the time they close their nuclear power plants by 2025, Germany will have spent 580 billion dollars on renewables, eventually increasing electricity prices by 50% and having a supply with ten times more emissions than that of France. Do you see any sense in this, ladies and gentlemen? And even with this panorama you continue to ignore VOX's proposal for the creation of huge sinks of CO2 through irrigation that is by far far much better than this disastrous law. I'm finishing up, Madam President. We do not understand very well what offends you so much of this VOX proposal about CO2 sinks, we do not know if it bothers you that a single hectare of land generates more employment than you have generated throughout the legislature, but ladies and gentlemen there are alternatives to managing decarbonisation. And those measures, which go through the protection of our primary sector and the people of the countryside,...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-13-CD210513.u121	Mrs. Borrás, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-13-CD210513.u122	I'm done. ... for the solidarity between the Spaniards with a National Hydrological Plan, for the commitment for innovation and technological development, are measures that we embrace, that we present to them and in whose defense we already vote against this sectarian law. Thank you so much. [[Prolonged applause by the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, on the ground]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-13-CD210513.u123	Thank you very much, Mrs. Borrás. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr. Mariscal Anaya has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-13-CD210513.u124	Thank you, Madam President. The People's Party's commitment to the fight against climate change is firm and our struggle for the decarbonization of the economy, as we have been demonstrating with the work that my colleagues in the Commission have done, mainly Diego Gago and Juan Diego Requena, to whom I thank the work in the Commission and in the presentation. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] Over the past decade, the People's Party has developed a very important activity in the fight against climate change. We did Kyoto I and II. Kyoto And was fulfilled despite the fact that the one who was Secretary of State for Climate Change did not fulfill it, Mrs Ribera. We did it. The Paris Agreement was also signed by us and Commissioner Miguel Arias Cañete introduced terms such as climate neutrality by 2050 or the just transition. Let's talk about this project, it's a small project, it's a limiting project that's late. Because in September 2018 we presented the first proposal for a climate change law and you rejected it. They rejected it because it set the People's Party march and you want to ideologize the climate battle. You have begun to write this law without listening, not as we did. Which is why that pride has even led the Secretary of State for the Environment to say that they are now opening a citizens' assembly. After passing the law, they now decide to listen. That is why you received 750 amendments, of which 100 are ours, Madam Vice-President. [[Applauds]] They have wanted to idealize science, every contribution must always be taken into account; nothing, no plan that remains on paper and cannot be made is worth it. That is why we are betting on something that already includes the European Union and that you despise, technological neutrality, the use of the best technology - the most economical and the safest - and bet on innovation. You guys give up on it. That is why you have voted against our commitment to net emissions, that is, to give value to the entire industrial chain and also to the car industry in Spain, which you destroy with the parliamentary initiative that you bring to this house. [[Applauds]] There are industrial processes, social processes in which CO2 emissions are inevitable: road freight transport, agriculture, air navigation. All of this you brush, including a model - different from what Mr Rufián said - clearly damaging because this is a clearly ideological political project. This is ideology. You want the short, easy way, to achieve that neutrality, without listening and without believing at all that industry can reform itself and that citizens can choose that industrial process that is more efficient. That is the difference between you and us and that is why it is a fundamentally ideological project. I'm going to give you two examples of why I'm talking about the shortest way. The quickest thing is to tax the Spanish, for example, the air transport tax. They will punish the tickets of the Autonomous Community of the Canary Islands or of the Balearic Islands, which have no other way than to travel to the Peninsula than by plane. They will crush the tourism industry, which accounts for 10% of our gross domestic product. That is the path you have chosen. By the way, I will ask you a question, Madam Vice-President, a canning industry that opened its doors in 1960 on the Galician coast, when would it have to close with this articulation? I'm telling you, in 14 years. That is what Mrs Martínez, of Citizens, and Mr Rego, of the Gallego Nationalist Block, have achieved, that the coastal industry of our country will be shut down. [[Applauds]] We promote a climate partnership with industry, an association that understood that without basic industry, without cement, without steel, without chemical industry, the transition is impossible. If we block and close this industry, as you claim, we will have to import all these goods, causing two evils: by increasing the transition, on the one hand, and by expelling many workers from the labour market, in our country specifically to 2.5 million people. That's what you do with this law, too. They're betting on electric mobility, and we're the first. But who's going to pay for the charge? Who is encouraging the purchase of electric vehicles? Who's doing it? What will happen to isolated areas and recharge points? Are they going to have refill points? Who's in charge? You guys, absolutely and in no way. We have also tabled amendments to reduce the electricity bill by 12%, 100 euros a year for the average family. They said not to reduce the Spanish bill. And not only that, I ask you the following question: you know perfectly well that we have been at the worst prices for ten years. This is due to price fluctuations, because renewable energy is not yet fully manageable and therefore, when there is no sun or wind, we have to pull out of other technologies, from back-up technologies, in this case gas. What proposal do you have to avoid the increase of the invoice resulting from this problem? None, none. And they voted against a 12% drop in electricity bill. That too you have done with this law. [[Applauds]] They didn't bet on the hydrogen. We have a much more ambitious national hydrogen plan than yours. No way. We are not talking about circular economy, we are not talking about interconnections with France, which allow us to evacuate renewable energy and converge in prices with our competitors. Ladies and gentlemen, we sincerely believe that the main problem with this law is that it does not have any kind of impact analysis. What is the cost of reducing these emissions? What will happen to the economy, to employment, to the fight against the demographic challenge? There is no plan or minimum assessment that can involve more sectors in a struggle that concerns us all, not just you, Madam Vice-President. The impact of this law on the prosperity of citizens and on the competitiveness of the economy is key, and I say it again, Madam Vice-President, there is no evaluation whatsoever, it is a leap to the void and you will be responsible for the closure of businesses and the backwardness of the Spanish economy. I would like to say the following to you: you have 23% of the European funds allocated to our country. The way in which this law has been worked out, the delay in presenting it, the lack of knowledge of the projects and the sectarian and biased way in which you are working with them, invites us to ask you again for an independent authority to manage these funds, Madam Vice-President. [[Applauds]] We sincerely believe that this law diminishes a challenge that transcends this generation and goes beyond this legislature, because it is a very narrow vision, which deprives all Spaniards of opportunities. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-13-CD210513.u125	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mrs Caballero Gutiérrez has the floor for the Socialist Parliamentary Group. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-13-CD210513.u126	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by thanking the young people who were mobilized every Friday to ask us to act to stop climate change. [[Applauds]] Today we tell those young people and citizens who were asking us for climate ambition that we have heard their demands. I would also like to thank the support and contributions of all the associations and collectives, environmental groups, trade union centres and companies that have participated. This is a law that is involved and agreed with many actors, and so we have been recognized by the country's main environmental groups. I would especially like to thank the work of all those political groups, the vast majority, who have contributed during the parliamentary process with valuable contributions, always in the spirit of adding. First of all, my colleague Juancho. We have made a good tandem and it has been noticed in the result. But also, of course, the work and effort of the other spokespersons who have supported the law. Oscar, Idoia, Tomás, Joan, Carmen, thank you. [[Applauds]] However, I have to reproach the main opposition party for remaining out of the way again, refraining from supporting it. Ladies and gentlemen, as Victor Hugo said, it is an immense sadness to think that nature speaks while men do not listen. You turn your back on the citizens, who demanded a clear and strong response to the climate emergency. You will be remembered because today you abstain from this law, but also because you never drew a climate change law in all the years you ruled. [[Applauds]] They will be remembered by the axe to the renewables, by the sun tax, because they amended the Coast Law by regularizing flood zones, because they amended the Mountain Law to build after the fires, and because they filled the hydrological plans with reservoirs as if the resource were unlimited. This, and not another, is their heritage in climate change, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party. [[Applauds]] The Socialist Party began this work as early as 2004, with the president of our party, Cristina Narbona, then at the head of the Ministry of the Environment and the current vice president and minister of ecological transition and demographic challenge, Teresa Ribera, at the head of the Climate Change Office, and I had the honour to contribute by reorienting water policy to scarcity and implementing nature-based solutions from the Douro basin. Of course, I must expressly thank the President, Pedro Sánchez, for his overall and determined involvement in this cause, because already at COP 25 he declared that we had to go further and do things faster in the area of climate change, that we either marked a turning point or we would leave behind the turning point. The country's first Climate Change and Energy Transition Act is the historic opportunity to reach and overcome this turning point that citizenship is asking us to achieve emission neutrality no later than 2050, in coherence with the scientific criterion and without leaving anyone behind. The law articulates a cross-cutting response by the country to the challenge of climate change to which Spain is particularly vulnerable, a response based on the principles of sustainable development, social justice, resilience, precaution, non-regression to progress achieved, protection of health, improvement of the competitiveness of the productive sectors and cooperation between administrations. It incorporates all economic sectors into climate action, from energy generation and finance to primary sectors, through transport, industry or public administrations. It reorients the revival of the economy, positioning the country to take advantage of the opportunities offered by the ecological transition. The climate change and energy transition law that we will pass today is a courageous law, as it is the only law across Europe that prohibits the exploration, research and exploitation of hydrocarbons and cracking, establishes the cessation of coal and radioactive mineral mining and promotes sustainable mobility and transport to reduce emissions radically and promote the energy transition. It is a new law because it integrates adaptation to climate change in a country very exposed to the consequences, on the coasts, by raising the sea level, but also desertification, fires, floods, prioritizing the development of green infrastructures and nature-based solutions to build a stronger economy and a more inclusive society. It is a law that protects the biodiversity of Europe's most biodiverse and more protected hectares, which builds the absorption capacity of green and blue carbon sinks and ecosystem services, and incorporates our environmental values into national accounting. It is a law that orders more public resources to combat climate change through, among others, a percentage of the State's General Budgets. A law that also does not forget the training for the new professions that will arise in this new country. And it is a law that puts the citizen at the basis of climate action, creating a Citizens' Climate Change Assembly and an independent committee of experts that will guide government action and constantly evaluate policies. It is also a law of solidarity, because it is the first time that the just transition is included in a law, that is, to enhance economic activity and employment for workers and territories who will have to move towards that low-carbon economy. It is an ambitious law, because it sets minimum targets to be revised up already in 2023, but also because it drives the circular economy, green taxation, rail transport, sustainable mobility, photovoltaic self-consumption facilities, among many other issues. The climate change and energy transition law is a country project to change the future and quality of life of our citizens, which is embodied in the Recovery and Resilience Plan, one of the largest and best green investment of all European plans. Ladies and gentlemen, the climate is changing and we do not have a country B. Today we are facing a great moment as legislators and legislators of the present for the future, today we are talking about the world that we will leave to future generations, today we start to build here a more modern, greener and safer country, adopting the first law of climate change and energy transition of the country. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-13-CD210513.u127	Thank you very much, Mrs. Knight. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] On behalf of the Government, I have the floor of the fourth Vice-President and Minister for the Ecological Transition and the Demographic Challenge.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-13-CD210513.u128	President, ladies and gentlemen, for me it is a great honour, an immense privilege to be with all of you this morning. The law that is submitted for approval this morning is a law that the country needed, an essential law. It had been too long. We mark a milestone, a starting point from which to always look forward and never back. We address complex challenges, it is true, at a difficult time for our society and, however, it is at this same juncture that we show with total evidence, with total clarity, the urgency of transforming our model of development and our way of life, integrating in it the criteria of sustainability and resilience. There are threats and risks that do not distinguish between colors or between political groups; they do, to a greater extent, with the most vulnerable. The most dangerous thing is not to see, not to want to see, not to want to see reality, to ignore it, to look elsewhere. The laws of physics and chemistry are not fooled. Threats to ignore what we are told fall particularly on young people, but also on farmers, on food security, on industry, on the world economy, as the World Economic Forum recalls. That is why I too want my first words from this rostrum to be addressed to the young people. Each generation has an obligation to solve or mitigate the problems it has encountered in order to avoid moving them into inheritance to the next generation, to its descendants, and in this case our generation, without doubt, has a great obligation to look ahead and face the great challenge of climate change. We are faced with a great opportunity, an obligation to transform with an impressive silence the generation of employment, prosperity, progress. We know that we can create new businesses, new progress, new prosperity, the possibility of offering an alternative to our young people today, but also to the next generations. You are aware that climate change puts your future at stake, so it demands more action and more ambition. We do not want to leave a model of unsustainable growth in the wake of the disaster, thus in the face of collapse. You are complicit and conscious in the progress made in the fight against climate change. You demand ambition and show to what extent our responsibility is to facilitate and accelerate change. There is no employment on a dead planet and transforming industry, cities, the energy system or the productive system is part of the most important thing we can do, because it is full of employment opportunities, wealth, sustainable prosperity over time and compatible with our country's environment and economy. In the last two years in Spain we have made more progress than ever in the assumption of climate commitments, in leadership on a complicated front, with the support of all. Our commitments are constant, our commitments represent 50 % of the reduction in emissions compared to those we had in 2005, almost 40 % of those we had in 2015, and it is, in relation to the three targets quantified by the European Union, an objective above what the European Union marks in renewable energy, energy efficiency or emission reductions from diffuse sectors, non-industrial sectors by 2030, even on the horizon of a reduction of at least 55 %. It is ambitious, yes, but it is consistent with the result goal that we have set ourselves by 2050, to facilitate paying the ground to generate opportunities and to ensure the correction of a model that led us to the disaster. And yet, we need more. The reality is that the five years that have passed since the signing of the Paris Agreement we have experienced the three warmest years since records exist, and globally the consequences are dramatic, but in Spain we already live with the effects of climate change. You have referred to the drunken Filomena, to the storm Gloria that has hit our coast; a country in which only with two extreme weather phenomena like these we have known since the beginning of this legislature the serious consequences that it has for the economy and for society. Precisely, tomorrow we present the second edition of the report on the state of the climate in Spain and shows how 2020 has been the warmest year in Spain and Europe since there are records, only comparable to 2016, also very recently. In our country the temperature has risen 1.7° since the pre-industrial period and 1.3° in the last 60 years. The number of extremely warm days has been much higher in the last thirty years than could be expected in a climate that was not warming up. The records of warm days are eleven times more frequent than those of cold days, but it is also normal in this climate change that cold records occur: it increases the surface temperature of the marine waters surrounding Spain; 2020 was the second warmest year in our seas, only after the year 2017 and, therefore, endangering the thermostat capacity of our ocean, the biodiversity, the fishing of our oceans. The adoption of this law today in this House means a lot. It is an important step in government action, but also in the action of all institutions. It's a first stage, there's a lot to do. We have, without going any further, the review which, at the very latest, will have to take place in 2023. In this final procedure, I would like to thank all the parliamentary groups for their hard work. The 758 amendments in Congress and 585 in the Senate show the degree of involvement and interest this law has aroused. The text has undoubtedly been enriched and strengthened by parliamentary work, so thank you very much and congratulations. The willingness to work together, the identification of meeting points is key. It is not worth the excess of one or the veto of another, it is a matter of summarizing, raising the collective level, facilitating collective action. We need those who support this law today, we need those who have not done so, those who have abstained, because in this field there are no inks or look elsewhere. This effort, this intense participation gives hope for the opportunity we will have in the year 2023 to review upwards the objective, only on the basis of strict implementation, of a committed implementation by all administrations and also by society. We know that climate change cannot wait. We know that we need to accelerate and deepen our climate action. This is a law of all and for all, and I would particularly like to thank the work and tireless commitment of the scientific community, of civil society organizations, academics, experts, entrepreneurs, investors, public officials, who have been incorporating this into their daily action and reflection. Everyone has wanted to contribute their experience and reflection over the years, also in the gestation of this project and, no doubt, in what remains to be done from now on. From the public administrations we have an obligation to pave the way, but we cannot do it alone; we need complicity, the involvement of civil society. To shorten the path to full decarbonization before 2050, maximum energy efficiency, maximum renewable energy efficiency, maximum electrification, modernizing the economy, transforming the way we produce and consume, adapting to the impacts of climate change, generating resilience in nature, protecting it as the great reservoir from which we still have to obtain all those benefits that today offers us and to manage all those changes without forgetting any territory or anyone, equity must be not only between generations, but also between people and groups of the same generation is capital. So we want to anticipate and take advantage of the world of opportunities that open up for the future. We have to be alert, we have to cultivate, we have to pay for that future. We need development in knowledge and skills, training in new skills, responsible investment, a bet sustained by innovation; things that appear in the law. It is a law that helps us to lay the foundations, to stabilize balances, to prepare the ground for a path with which we will live in the coming decades. I'm on my way. This is a committed government, a government that wants to be and act in a progressive, feminist, ecological way. Let no one doubt that we will continue to place ecology, prosperity within the environmental limits at the heart of our policies as an essential guarantee that more just, safer and lasting progress is possible. There's a way, and I'd like us to travel it together. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, stood up.-Applause of the fourth Vice-President of the Government and Minister for the Ecological Transition and the Demographic Challenge, Ribera Rodríguez, addressed to the above-mentioned parliamentary groups]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-13-CD210513.u129	Thank you very much, Madam Fourth Vice-President of the Government. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-13-CD210513.u130	Ladies and gentlemen, we now turn to the items on the agenda relating to the opinions of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on international conventions with dossier numbers 110/000052 to 110/000057. Some parliamentary groups have asked to speak in relation to these opinions. As agreed by the Board of Spokespersons, a three-minute shift is opened from the seat for parliamentary groups to set their positions. For the Basque Parliamentary Group? [[EAJ-PNV]] [[Pause]] I'm told you don't. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group? [[Pause]] They tell me neither. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, Mr Pisarello Prados has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-13-CD210513.u131	Thank you very much, Madam President. I could not begin without referring to the communiqué of the Gaza Ministry of Health, which has just numbered eighty-three the number of people killed by bombings, including seventeen children and seven women, and nearly five hundred and sixty-seven. For justice, for elementary humanism, we believe that we cannot look elsewhere, and therefore again we call for the cessation of this unacceptable violence and, above all, for the protection of those who, like our Juana Ruiz, remain detained simply for defending human rights in Palestine. [[Applauds]] Having said that, Madam President, I wanted to put some of our group's critical notes to two specific economic agreements, Ghana and Singapore, which, in our view, are designed to look more towards the past than towards the future than international trade should be. We all know that the pandemic has had devastating effects on the world economy, but, above all, on the economy of the impoverished and dependent countries, and precisely because this is the case, we believe that international trade cannot continue to be based on outdated rules, on the old neoliberal recipes or on the insolidary recipes of our far-right trampist, who is left with human rights and who is left with solidarity among peoples. In times of pandemic, it cannot be that we rise in the morning by making pompous announcements about our international cooperation policies and deny them in the afternoon with fundamentally extractive and unjust foreign trade policies, from an environmental and ecological point of view. What we need, and it has become clear from the law that we have just adopted now, is international trade that strengthens, not weakens, food sovereignty to local producers, to local democracy; international trade that strengthens, not weakens, labour rights, environmental rights or the decarbonisation of the economy, but not only in Europe but beyond its borders. This applies to us for Ghana, it applies to Singapore and it applies to the agreement between the European Union and Mercosur. If we really want international trade to be sweet and effective, as Montesquieu said, it cannot be limited to expressing the privileges of a handful of multinationals. And if Europe is not able to accept these principles in its own agreements, it will hardly be able to denounce these abuses when they are committed by any of the other great powers. Therefore, for planetary health, for a just and peaceful prosperity, for solidarity between generations, we are going to vote critically on these agreements. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-13-CD210513.u132	Thank you, Mr. Pisarello. Mr Suárez Lamata has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-13-CD210513.u133	Thank you very much, Madam President. I see that there are groups that are using this shift to talk about the subject of the day, and, logically, from my parliamentary group we also want to shift the concern about what is happening in Israel and Palestine. But, Mr. Pisarello, I'm moved by your tenderness according to what problems. You're not credible. It is not credible because, depending on where the violence comes from, you condemn it or you applaud it, as your parliamentary group. About the same thing that condemns the violence that is happening in Israel, I am reminded of other countries that you are always mute: China, Cuba, Venezuela or Colombia: what is happening today promoted by forces that you constantly applaud, and even the violence and strength that this country suffers from promoted by its parliamentary group. [[Applauds]] I understand that some of your ladies and gentlemen are scandalized, but what happens is that there are people who don't have a morale and that's why they have a double. And taking advantage of the conventions, and since they concern fraud, I would like to say that I am satisfied that both the Socialist Group and the United Nations Group can support those conventions, mainly because combating fraud is an important source of revenue. What is not to be received, what makes no sense is the tax harassment, ladies and gentlemen, which the government is currently proposing, EUR 80 billion. We are going to negotiate Europe-a great deal of negotiation - they give us 70 billion and, in return, Mr Sánchez commits to grab the pocket of the Spaniards to collect 80 billion euros, and he says that it is 80 billion euros from the rich. I am going to give you a rich model: the self-employed, who buys a car of 20,000 euros and you have been taxed, the insurance tax has been raised, you are going to be taxed by the highway and, in case it is little, when you go to make the declaration of the rent, you are going to be taxed 1000 euros more, because you are not going to be allowed to do it together.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-13-CD210513.u134	Mr Suárez, I would remind you that the point deals with opinions on international conventions. I'll call you to the point, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-13-CD210513.u135	Madam President, I understand what you're telling me. What I don't understand is that at an international convention point...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-13-CD210513.u136	Mr Suárez, continue your intervention, please, and do not argue with the Presidency.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-13-CD210513.u137	Madam President, I see you don't like what I'm saying. When there are people who talk about what's not the matter...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-13-CD210513.u138	Mr. Suárez, you called the question.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-13-CD210513.u139	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you for your generosity and neutrality, as always. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-13-CD210513.u140	For the Socialist Group, Mr Gómez Hernández has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-13-CD210513.u141	Thank you very much, Madam President. From the Socialist Group we are going to support the six international agreements that are considered today, among other things because we believe that they are extremely positive, and we move within the framework of the European Union and, of course, they draw a scenario of progress and progress for Spain and for the whole of the European Union, and they go far beyond strictly commercial aspects. We are talking about agreements that fight terrorism and crime and also weapons of mass destruction. We must not interpret the debate on these international agreements and conventions in order to demagogue about national policy. We are not going to do it, among other things because what has been launched today here is not true. It seems that they are more pleased with all the measures that this Government must take that can have an impact on the European Union and that Spain will benefit only from the progress and progress of this country. I would therefore like to reiterate and ratify our undisputed support for these international agreements, and to continue along these lines of progress, empowerment and strengthening of the European project. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-13-CD210513.u142	Thank you, Mr. Gómez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-13-CD210513.u143	We turn to the last item on the agenda, on the debate on the whole of the proposal for a law amending Act No. 49/2002 of 23 December 2002 on the taxation of non-profit entities and on tax incentives for sponsorship. An amendment to the entire alternative text has been submitted to this bill. In defence of the amendment tabled, I have the floor, by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mrs De Luna Tobarra.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-13-CD210513.u144	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are bringing to this House an amendment to the whole text with an alternative to the proposed law of the Plural Parliamentary Group amending Law 49/2012 of 23 December on the tax regime for non-profit entities and tax incentives for sponsorship. We present our alternative legislative proposal to take a step further in the legislation on sponsorship, currently based on a purely economic perspective through tax incentives, to complement the legislation from a substantive perspective that reinforces and highlights the importance of the contribution of civil society in the protection or assistance of cultural, social, sports or scientific activities. We understand that the legislation remains short, so even if we are absolutely in agreement with the tax incentives for sponsorship, we must take a step further, including the social aspect, with the aim of recognizing, encouraging and increasing sponsorship in Spain. As you know, for several years, different political groups and cultural associations have developed drafts and proposals to improve Law 49/2002. The People's Party included the adoption of a new sponsorship law first in the 2012-2015 General Strategic Plan of the State Secretariat of Culture and later in the Culture 2020 Plan. At the end of 2014, the Government of the People's Party adopted a tax reform that included measures to promote patronage and other tax incentives for culture. In 2018, the People's Parliamentary Group presented a bill to improve existing legislation in order to encourage and increase sponsorship in our country, which expired after the motion of censure. Over the years, the participation of private individuals, entities and institutions in the protection, development and encouragement of activities of general interest in the various events that the public sector can cover, from purely charitable and assistance to cultural and artistic activities, has been addressed. Thus, Law 30/1994 of 24 November 1994 on foundations and tax incentives for private participation in activities of general interest sought to address, in addition to the need to update the law on foundations, the need to encourage private initiative in the conduct of activities of general interest. Subsequently, it was with Law 49/2002 that the Government of the People's Party introduced for the first time the patronage as protagonist of Spanish legislation, and made an advance on the previous regulation, in view of the growth of the phenomenon, but it did so again only from a fiscal point of view. After almost twenty years since its adoption, it is necessary to address sponsorship by highlighting its importance and overcoming mere budgetary or fiscal incentives. In the area of taxation, although the incentives in Royal Decree-Law 17/2020 were somewhat increased in May last year to the cultural sector from the context of the pandemic, the Government was short, which we are not surprised at, since the policy of this Government is more to raise taxes on the middle and working classes and to charge us even for using the roads and highways of our country. The Minister of Culture, Mr Rodríguez Uribes, has come to state that this is not the time for a law of patronage. We, on the contrary, think that yes, it is time to address it. Our proposal for a law seeks to stimulate and support sponsorship not only in economic but also in social terms, addressing this figure from a broader point of view, as a phenomenon that acts in different fields of activity, in order to create incentives for private participation in activities of general interest, encouraging the motivation of benefactors through public recognition. Throughout history, in Spain we have had great philanthropies that have been essential in the development of science, health or education. The figure of these philanthropists has a double impact and a double benefit: on the one hand, because of their invaluable contribution in key sectors and, on the other, because their example serves as motivation to other people to engage in initiatives that are genuinely generating social change. As you know, Spanish society has always shown its solidarity by turning to all kinds of humanitarian emergencies, to which it has always responded overwhelmingly. This solidarity, which is part of the idiosyncrasy of the Spanish people, was also evident during the years of crisis with contributions to institutions that work with the most economically disadvantaged, such as Caritas or the Food Bank, deservedly recognized with the Prince of Asturias Prize. Undoubtedly, the highest levels of aid and response have been achieved in the health emergency caused by the COVID-19 pandemic, followed by a serious economic and social crisis. Just as an example, I will tell you that Caritas has helped 500,000 new people, more than a million and a half in total during the first year of the pandemic, and all thanks to the work of volunteers and the contributions of 67 000 private donors and over 3,500 companies and institutions. For its part, the Food Bank has served 1600 000 people, 600,000 more than before the pandemic. Our citizens and society as a whole have the right and the duty to be responsible for the culture, research, environmental sustainability, training or science that is developing in our country. This law aims to promote this co-responsibility of civil society, the direct role that the citizens of the 21st century demand and, in turn, to recognize the fundamental role of philanthropists, companies and so many citizens who in a selfless, selfless and vocational way intervene in the development of Spain, making us a better society. Supporting sponsorship, therefore, goes beyond tax incentives or increasing them, which we consider necessary and are also reflected in the text of our standard. It means, ladies and gentlemen, creating spaces where patronage takes place and motivating the patrons to continue supporting art, cooperation or science. It is to give freedom to the creators, social actors and other beneficiaries of patronage so that they can act freely, with the confidence that their work will come forward by having different possibilities of financing and collaborators beyond where the action of the State comes from. This law is structured into four chapters, fourteen articles, one additional provision, one derogatory provision and three final provisions. Chapter I defines the object, the subjective scope of the purposes of patronage, as well as the purposes pursued by this law. Chapter II contains initiatives of a social nature, which make the difference with respect to Law 49/2002, which remains, as I said, exclusively in tax incentives for sponsorship. Social recognition is reinforced through the recognition card of the patrons, the public and voluntary registration of the patrons, the celebration of the day of the patrons or the creation of the national prize of the patrons. Chapter III defines the administrative organization, creating the commission of sponsorship, which, among other functions, will be responsible for the elaboration of the national strategy of sponsorship, which will have to be approved by the Council of Ministers and subsequently ratified by the qualified majority of both legislatures. Finally, Chapter IV reinforces tax incentives by introducing different changes to Law 49/2002 on tax regimes for non-profit entities and tax incentives for sponsorship. It contains an exhaustive list of the entities benefiting from the sponsorship and the donations, donations and contributions that will give the right to deduct, while also collecting deductions from the IRPF's share and corporate tax. It is therefore, to conclude, Members, a good law, which contemplates sponsorship in a broad way, in all its aspects and aspects, to promote and promote sponsorship as an instrument of private contribution to the general interests. That is why we are waiting for the majority vote in this House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-13-CD210513.u145	Thank you very much, Mrs. De Luna. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] He has requested the use of the turn against the Plural Parliamentary Group. I have the floor, on behalf of that group, Mr Miquel i Valentí.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-13-CD210513.u146	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Mrs De Luna, if you had only listened to it and had not read the text you and the one you have tabled as an alternative text, you would have voted in favour of it. What happens is that you have made a defense of the text you are amending. All that you have put forward here today is what the original text contains, to which you have tabled an amendment, and all that you have put forward here is what is not what the alternative text that you proposed today that is being voted on in this House does not. [[Mrs. De Luna Tobarra makes negative gestures]] I recommend a reading before the replica and then we discuss it. I say this because someone might think, as Mr. Carazo said the other day here when the text that you understand was discussed, that patronage is in the DNA of the People's Party. Mr. Carazo said that the other day and today you have pointed to something similar. And it could be; in fact, it would be credible because in 2010, before being president, Mariano Rajoy undertook to make a law of patronage. History knows it, it ceased to be president years later without having made that law. Do you know how many legislative initiatives the government presented when Mariano Rajoy was president? It was 269. Do you know how many initiatives the People's Parliamentary Group presented during the years when Mariano Rajoy was President of the Government? Don't you know? It was 28. In total, there are almost 300 parliamentary initiatives between the People's Parliamentary Group and the government led by Mariano Rajoy, but not one of these 300 legislative initiatives was the law of patronage that Mariano Rajoy promised in 2010 and that you come here to defend as if it were his great theme of all life, and is still pending reform. Someone might say that maybe they were tied up and they went off to talk about it. No, because in 2014 Convergence i Unió brought to this House a reform of the patronage law of 2002, and what did the People's Party vote on, Your Honor? He voted against it. Therefore, that great commitment to the patronage of which you take heart I don't know where it was during these years. In the last ten years we have not seen any respite from that commitment to the sponsorship law that you come to defend here today. [[Mr. Miquel i Valentí shows a photograph]] But there's more. When Mr. Méndez de Vigo dared to think that, as Minister of Culture, he could also make a law of patronage, Mr. Montoro said to him, 'Don't touch that subject.' Of course, your party's commitment to the Sponsorship Act is being diluted over the years. But there's more. 2021 and, ten years after Mariano Rajoy came to the government and eleven years after his commitment to make a law, you had not presented any similar initiative to reform the 2002 law, Mrs De Luna, but only ten days after this House, with a very broad consensus, accepted the processing of the initiative that you are amending today, remaining alone, as the only party that voted against the acceptance in process of this initiative - from VOX to Podemos you agreed to process this initiative and your party was the only one that said no - ten days later you present your law, then yes, with your alternative text and your great commitment forgotten for eleven years. So let me start by telling you that it's hard to believe everything you and Mr. Fucker told us today the other day. [[The lady]] Let us go to your text, what we are discussing here today, let us go to the great contribution of your text regarding the original, which is Article 4, which you call measures to promote patronage. I'm going to read you the four measures you're proposing, because to see if you're listening from the outside seem a little bit more bizarre than it looks when you've said them here before, Your Honor. Its four measures to promote sponsorship are: the creation of a national sponsorship award - it is not bad, but we could go a little further - the annual celebration of the sponsorship day - as a second measure is also not bad, but it is also very short - doubles the bet with its third proposal, which is a card of recognition of patrons - it is not bad as a third proposal - and the fourth, which is the best, a voluntary register of patrons, so that the patrons will be pointed out, and the one who does not want to be pointed out. [[Laughter]] Your Honor, these are your four steps to promote patronage. And he comes here to say that patronage is his great theme, that they have been waiting all their lives for that moment to come to present this initiative. And the great contribution to the text they are amending, that alone, is the national prize, the annual celebration of the day, the recognition card and the voluntary registration of patrons. Your Honor, if it's your big subject, you could have worked it a little bit more. I go on, because Mr Carazo told us the other day: 'Your text has two good things: the first is - I quote textually - that it is proposed to increase tax incentives to sponsorship to match other European countries'. Great, our text proposes that the deduction of the first block be 90% and now you come down to 80%. We did not agree that we should be equal to European levels, that we should look at the countries of Europe that are functioning and that have high deductions, such as the one we are proposing? Oh no, we're proposing 90% in the first block and you're going to 80%. I thought they liked this measure. Why do they make a law less ambitious? What is the need to lower the law in that sense? It's absolutely a nonsense. But there was something else that Mr. Carazo told us they liked. He told us: 'We like to have new figures collected, such as crowdfunding or micro-mecenation.' Your Honor, they don't quote it in their alternative text, they don't talk about it, they don't intuit themselves; they don't have anything to do with microfinance or crowdfunding. And to make a law of sponsorship in the year 2021 that does not speak of crowdfunding or micro-mecenation is to be absolutely disconnected from what is sponsorship in the 21st century and in the year 2021, and it is to make a law of the last century, Your Honor. So, my question is, in a way of reflection: If you liked two things from the text that we are presenting, if the text that you are presenting obviates the two things that you liked from our text, is a less ambitious text in terms of deductions and does not bring anything new beyond those four measures to promote sponsorship between the annual prize, the card and the voluntary registration of sponsorship, what does your text bring? Why do they present a worse text than we are discussing, in objective terms, since it is a smaller percentage, they don't talk about the things they said they liked and, above all, Your Honor, they don't bring anything interesting new? One wonders why you have presented this text, whether it is because you were left alone voting against a text that the whole House, I insist, from VOX to Podemos, accepted that it will be dealt with, because everyone recognizes that the 2002 Act needs to be updated and that it needs to be done in modern terms. Your Honor, you have taken the current law, amended the percentages and presented it as a great novelty. We need to talk about the issues that are being discussed today in the countries that lead these issues. How to present a text that doesn't talk about crowdfunding? How to present a text that does not speak of micro-mecenanism? I've been really shocked. Your Honor, you don't know anything. They have used the patronage to campaign during the elections in Madrid, now they have come up with the issue, they have not known what to do and they have presented a text in ten days - namely how they have written it - that does not solve any issue. I would have recommended that this alternative text, which barely reaches eight pages, would have turned it into three amendments to the joint text, and we could have discussed it. In fact, as I hope that this amendment to the whole of you today will not go forward, you will be able to reconvert your four proposals on the annual prize, card and registration into joint amendments, which I will gladly accept during the course of the initiative. On the other hand, you said it was time to take one more step. Your Honor, it is time for you to step aside, because this is not one more step, this is one more step. One more step is the law that you are amended, which is much more ambitious, much more courageous, much more current than the text that you have presented this morning. I therefore recommend that you vote against your text too, because, as I said at the beginning, the description you made at the beginning of your speech perfectly defines our text but does not come close to what you have presented here this morning. Thank you, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-13-CD210513.u147	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs De Luna Tobarra has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-13-CD210513.u148	Thank you, President. Members, as I said in my previous speech, the alternative text that we are presenting today in this House takes a step further in the legislation on sponsorship, currently based only on an economic aspect through tax incentives, to address it also from a much broader social perspective, a text which Mr Miquel does not seem to have read because of what he said in his speech. The People's Parliamentary Group agrees that there are these tax incentives, but we cannot stay there alone. The bill submitted by the Plural Parliamentary Group on fiscal matters invades powers of a state nature, as well as suffering from all the issues to which I have referred of motivation and social recognition of patronage. We cannot admit that the autonomous communities have the capacity to determine both the projects that can benefit from sponsorship in their territory and the value of the donated goods, nor that they can extend the assumptions of sponsorship, nor to determine the events of general interest whose donations, contributions and donations enjoy fiscal incentives, since it would be the communities that would define the deductions that affect the corporation tax and the IRPF of all Spaniards, especially when proposed by a separatist party that has ruled Catalonia for many years and that, instead of independence, has achieved decadence; a Catalonia that has remained without government since the elections - tomorrow it will be three months - and that is more dependent on the fiction of Waterloo than on the Catalan reality, a Waterloo that has become a delusional replica of the island of Barataria or the country of Nevera Jamás; a Catalonia in which has traded with the division of councils in Lledoners for crimes committed by criminals. [[applause]] You have been part of governments that have subjected the Catalan economy to double asphyxiation, to identity asphyxiation, with the constant threat of 'we will do it again', and to fiscal asphyxiation, with higher taxes and higher than in the rest of Spain; governments that have managed to turn away large business and investor groups from Catalonia when it was not long ago the epicenter of business and the economic engine of Spain. Even professed separatists, such as former Barça president, Mr. Rosell, came to say: 'I am an independentist, but if the independenceists rule, I will leave Catalonia'. I believe that this is a very clear example of the mistrust and fear generated by their governments, even among their own. They just have to look at Madrid. It was the autonomy that the most companies created -18 000, 3000 more than in Catalonia - and recorded an increase of foreign investments of 23.6% while Catalonia dropped by 22.7%. They have carried out a harmful identity policy, which has made the possibility that the European Medicines Agency, the EMA, will be located in Barcelona instead of Amsterdam, as finally happened, due to political uncertainty, according to the sources of the agency itself; uncertainty and political instability of which you, Mr PeCAT, are co-responsible, having caused at all levels the greatest chaos ever seen in Catalonia. [[applause]] With these limbs you will understand that we cannot leave in the hands of their governments decisions that affect the state-wide collection of taxes of all Spaniards. Finally, I would like to point out that we agree on tax incentives in sponsorship, but we go further; we think that a social recognition has to be regulated - and that is why we include it -, an aspect that gives encouragement and increase to sponsorship in Spain. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-13-CD210513.u149	Thank you very much, Mrs. De Luna. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much. Mr Miquel and Valenti have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-13-CD210513.u150	Mrs Llanos de Luna, if I had any doubt that you were not as interested in patronage as much as possible, it has become very clear to me. I mean, I had five minutes to tell me, for example, where you saw the problem that, as Mr. Carazo said, a picture of Dalí, as Dalí was of Figueras, could not be exposed in Queen Sofia. I don't know where Mr. Carazo found it in the law, just like reading between lines, but very between lines, because the law doesn't say any of that. I was hoping you would tell me, I don't know, why do you think your text is much better than the text we're presenting, but you've come here to talk about Sandro Rossell, Waterloo, Lledoners, about how badly the government of Convergence has managed for how many years, which you'll understand I don't intend to answer today and less here. Which doesn't even cover it up. Of little interest to him, I had noticed; reading, it became very clear to me; but after listening to it, more, because I had five minutes to respond and he has devoted three to talking about other things that have nothing to do with patronage! It says: as you send Waterloo, I vote against this text. Man, taking advantage of the Pisuerga passing through Valladolid, I'll do whatever I want. But we're not here to talk about it. I think you should listen to people who have in the ecosystem of your party, who have had it for many years and who know a little bit of patronage. For me Mr Lassalle is one of those who knows most in the Spanish state about patronage, and I am afraid that they have asked him nothing, I am afraid that no one has called him to ask him for an opinion on what he thought of his text. Because, look, I recovered an interview that Mr. Lassalle gave a few years ago, when he was Secretary of State for Culture and wanted to make a law of patronage. He said, "With tax advantages, it's not enough." And its law is basically tax advantages plus the annual sponsorship award. I do not think that Mr Lassalle was referring to a national prize when he said that it was not enough, he would refer to talking about donations of services, he would refer to talking about micro-methodism, he would refer to updating the law, to doing so also in deductions, of course, because we have to improve them, but we do not have to improve them and give a prize or a day a year to throw a party to thank the patrons; it was not enough to mean that we had to go a little further. And Mr. Lassalle added: 'We must not be satisfied with increasing the draw', which is basically what you do, increase the draw and feel satisfied, proud and talk about Waterloo. Mr Lassalle said: 'This country deserves a law for its normality. I'm thinking about the French model' - Mr. Lasalle said -. Compare the French law with the law that you are amended in its entirety today and you will see that you look quite alike, that the French law looks more like our text than your text, that I don't know what law of patronage you have been inspired by, but certainly none that works. Your Honor, you have just mentioned one thing to me, because what interests you is the competition issue, and you have said to me: how is it possible for us to give more competence to the autonomous communities with how badly you and others manage? I tell you one thing, giving competence to the autonomous communities is not giving it to Catalonia, giving more scope to the autonomous communities is also giving it to Mr Feijóo, Mr Moreno, Mrs Ayuso, who will agree with me that, in her opinion, they manage well. So, in view of the possibility of allowing Mrs Ayuso, Mr Moreno, Mr Feijóo, you say: no, no, let the socialists, who manage much better than the autonomous communities, keep it. No, sir, no, because it has nothing to do with the reality of Madrid with that of Andalusia, with the Galician, with the Catalan, with the Valencian or with the Balear. Then, no one better than the autonomous governments will know how to limit their needs, their projects and their realities to this law that would allow them to do so. Faced with that, you prefer not to: let's centralize everything and let's keep the whole Sanchez government. You prefer that, it's amazing! He tells me: in Madrid we do things right, in Catalonia you make them fatal; therefore, let all Madrid do it. That was his reflection. But Madrid, not the community; Madrid, the central government. Then be clear! Do you like how it manages the Community of Madrid or do you like how it manages the central government? Because it seems that you would like the central government to manage the entire Community of Madrid, the Autonomous Community of Catalonia, the Basque Country and all the autonomous communities; that is what you would prefer, but, Your Honor, there are rare things in your speech. In conclusion, Your Honor, I have already confirmed before that we are going to vote against your unambitious alternative text, out of date and, above all, Your Honor, because a text that can be converted into three articulated amendments do not have to force it and turn it into an alternative text to this law that is being discussed and that all the groups in the House, at least in their day, agreed to be discussed. Thank you very much, President. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-13-CD210513.u151	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Many thanks to the services of the House as well. Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor at the time of the joint parliamentary group's fixing of positions.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-13-CD210513.u152	Thank you very much. We discussed a moment ago the validation of two royal decrees-laws and will allow me, Madam President, to echo the ruling of the Constitutional Court that has just filled the government with a monumental flag for the fraudulent use of the figure of the royal decree-law that brought the then vice president of the government, Mr Iglesias, and the chief of staff of Pedro Sánchez, Mr Redondo, to the National Intelligence Centre. [[Applauds]] Democracy today has a great day. Ladies and gentlemen, in support of the amendment to the whole of which Mrs Llanos de Luna has defended, I will first reiterate one of the arguments I used at the plenary session of the Congress on 16 March when taking into account this proposal for a law on the tax system for non-profit entities and tax incentives for sponsorship. The initiative, as you know, was then presented by Mr Miquel i Valentí of PeCAT, and adopted mostly with my vote against. The alternative text accompanying the amendment to the entire proposed law amending Law 49/2002 of 23 December, makes a call for recognition of philanthropic entities, and uniquely quotes in an express way - and I think it is very correct - Caritas and the Food Bank, organizations that if they have always distinguished themselves by being on the front line to meet the needs of disadvantaged persons or families with survival problems, have been doing a tremendous amount of work to mitigate the socio-economic impact of COVID-19. Of course, it must be extended to those who are shouldering this tragedy that we have been suffering for so long. The alternative text raises some interesting developments in the four chapters that make up it, although I believe that with greater extension, detail and ambition in the one devoted to tax incentives to sponsorship, which through direct, indirect taxes and tolls - once again socialist - will impact on the pocket of all Spaniards. As a result, it has no doubt that all measures involving the provision of services will be incorporated into it and that they will also strengthen the micro-mechanism, which, although expanded in another legislative amendment in 2016, has much scope to promote and improve the incentive measures so that, in particular, the entities covered by the third sector can benefit from them and give better coverage to unreplaceable and irreplaceable work for the benefit of society. All this, together with other different variables that will contribute, where appropriate, to giving good tax treatment to sponsorship and that are contemplated in the proposed law, is very reasonable but it is that in the text that has already been approved for processing by the General Courts and that today it is the one that is questioned, a swampy aspect, the competition, was introduced, when it intends to grant to the autonomous communities both the ability to determine the projects sponsored or sponsored as well as the valuation of the goods contributed to it. The pernicious consequence would be a decline in the tax capacity of the State sections of the personal income tax and inheritance tax. In the opinion of Forum this law - which has an obvious reformist line, and it must be recognized to Mr Miquel i Valentí when he raised it - completely succumbs when it camouflages the competitive invasion of the autonomous communities on tax and collection issues, which are exclusive of the State. It was rightly emphasized by Mrs Llanos de Luna in her reply. In the case of Asturias, it is shocking to think about the consequences of the mere possibility that a socialist government could have new collection instruments with which to continue the fiscal policy that already shudders taxpayers to the maximum, with the disastrous consequences that are seen as the exodus of companies that flee from voraciousness and settle in other territories where they are not subject to the machinery and fiscal machinations. As I pointed out in that debate on 16 March, and I will repeat it a moment ago, Spain urgently needs a good specific law of sponsorship, so it is necessary to recognize the People's Group's efforts to draw up the alternative text that is before us in this session, because in the 21st century we are facing a major outstanding subject to improve the legislative successor that is currently in force, specifically since the 2002 Government of José María Aznar promulgated a series of measures to stimulate public-private collaboration, which have been expanded to cover micro-mecenation, in which another good impetus is also needed. It should also be remembered that the Government of Pedro Sánchez made pompous announcements and convened inter-ministerial commissions to launch this subject, issues that were never again known and so we continue, so we continue in Spain, without a rule that encourages the financing and support of projects from which civil society can work for the better well-being of Spaniards in areas where public intervention by the different administrations does not reach. It seems appropriate to recall and point out that there are some 275 000 non-profit entities in our country, but the pandemic has exacerbated its already precarious situation, and much more complicated times are expected for all of them. Therefore, in view of my disagreements with the PeCAT initiative, I find the alternative text that has been defended by the spokesman for the Group of the European People's Party, which will of course count on my vote in favour, valuable and essential. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-13-CD210513.u153	Thank you very much, Mr Martínez Oblanca. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thanks to the services of the House. Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-13-CD210513.u154	Thank you, President. I left it on. Today we are discussing a full amendment to the proposal for a law tabled by the Plural Group, defended by Mr Miquel, which intends to change a law of 2002. As Mr Miquel has rightly said, there has already been an attempt to amend the X Legislature by Convergence i Unió and which you, ladies and gentlemen of the PP voted against. We, Mr Miquel, abstained from the proposal for a law which sought to increase tax incentives in IRPF and in societies, to strengthen the role of the autonomous communities in this area, to extend the concept of donations and donations and micro-mecenanism, basically because in Euskadi we had and have competence in this matter and we did not want to influence the decision-making that corresponds - or that we understand that corresponds - to other administrations in other territories, in this case the autonomous communities. In recent times, there has been a need to increase the participation of the private sector in activities of general interest. In this regard, the historical outlying territories have reformulated the catalogue of tax incentives to facilitate greater public-private collaboration in the financing of projects of general interest. In the case of Bizkaia and Gipuzkoa this review took place in the year 2019 and was extended, moreover, - see how curious - in 2020 for those donations, contributions or services of free services in favor of the Basque Health Service, Osakidetza, or scientific research in the context of the fight against COVID-19. Look, lordship of the People's Party, what the autonomous communities can accomplish even in a pandemic context. I think this is very important. Of course, if we had any doubts about voting in favour of, or at least abstaining from, its alternative text, of course, from this rostrum has made it clear to us that the vote is going to be against, because it is an alternative text that basically differs - as Mr Sergi Miquel has said - in an article and, moreover, here in the rostrum, you are obviating the competence of the autonomous communities and what you want is centralisation. As I have said, I believe that the autonomous communities have much to say in this regard. In other words, they want to avoid the possibility that the autonomous communities can say something about sponsorship. As I said, we have jurisdiction in this matter, and it is recognized by both the Sponsorship Act and the bill referred to or brought by the Plural Group, because there was an article in that Act, article 1, which states that this law shall be understood without prejudice to the outlaws of concert and of the Navarro agreement; and therefore the amendment of that law would not apply to us. However, its text obviouss this foral safeguard, obviouss all the safeguard for all the autonomous communities and, therefore, as I said, we will not support it. We understand the need to amend this law adapted to the times, but, of course, respecting the competences of certain autonomous communities such as, in this case, Euskadi and Navarra in this matter, and which - as I have said - are obvious in this proposal. They will understand, therefore, that of course we prefer that the proposal submitted by the Plural Group which does respect the competition field be dealt with and because, moreover, it is a good starting point to work on a reform of the system of bonuses and contributions to sponsorship; in short, to implement those fiscal incentives that are necessary in this respect. That is why the Basque Nationalist Group is going to vote against the amendment to the totality with alternative text tabled by you. Nothing more and thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-13-CD210513.u155	Thank you very much, Mrs. Sagastizabal. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Díaz Gómez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-13-CD210513.u156	Thank you, President. This amendment to the whole of me has made me rethink the conception of the forces that operate in the universe, and I will tell you why. Because already the law presented by the Catalan Democratic Party seemed to us very similar in many respects to the autonomous law, which is not a set of amendments but an autonomous law, which presented Citizens in 2018, to which the PP put a lot of resistance and which we again registered at this session. [[shows a document]] But what has drawn us the most attention of this amendment to the whole is that I believe that we are faced with the amendment to the whole that most resembles the law to which it purports to oppose in the history of democracy. I have counted the fundamental aspects and with two amendments, with two, it was, more or less, resolved what they put forward. Of course, I, as I do not think they copy, have put to work the brigade of paranormal affairs of Citizens who, as you will understand, at this time is up here, because we believe it may be a case even of telepathy. [[Take your hand to the front]] We do not understand very well why an amendment is being tabled in its entirety with this content. We are going to abstain because we are voting in favour of the Catalan Democratic Party's proposed law and we are confident that our thesis on this law will be incorporated into the amendment process. I say to you, the whole amendment that you are presenting has many aspects that we share, and what we do not understand is that you use this mechanism. So, the similarities seem to us palmarias. First of all, our text, that of Citizens, which we propose is registered in the House, but as the capacity to present initiatives that we have is much less, we have not been able to bring it, but we will try, by amendment, to take any of our theses into account, but we do believe that the ideal would be a new law, a law of sponsorship that does not work on the previous rules. Mr Martínez Oblanca has already spoken of the need for a specific law of sponsorship, and we absolutely agree with that approach. We believe that we need to narrow it down, something that is still not done, narrow it down and define the new concepts incorporated in sponsorship that provide legal certainty. One of the great problems that sponsorship has right now is that someone can make a well-intentioned contribution and at the age of two take a major Finance scare. There have been many patrons who have found themselves in this situation. Things that they thought went down and then Hacienda came and told them no, and already the contribution was made and the function was already done. But there are also more concepts that we believe need to be developed and proposed by the Citizens Parliamentary Group in our law. For example, donation to universities, what Anglo-Saxons call endowment. I think it should be covered by a sponsorship law. In addition, it promotes university autonomy and can help. This, in the Anglo-Saxon world, is very common. There are scholarships that are based solely on the contribution of patrons. Another aspect to develop is participatory sponsorship, the so-called crowdfunding. Very rich and that allows the possibilities of being patrons to be extended beyond what the collective imagination can have on what is a patron. That is to say, what micro-mecenanism is: people who want to participate in the restoration of a painting and can put 50 euros, as has already been done in museums: restorations through the crowdfunding mechanism. It would very well be a more developed recognition of what this is. The figure of the volunteers. Why isn't volunteering in sponsorship? Is it just the money that helps? Why not recognize the people who make, for example - we know cases - of voluntary guides in museums the cost of gasoline, of parking, when a retired person travels, that many do it in their free time, and participate as a guide in a museum? Why can't they be discounted? Or the cost of the uniform? They are small things, but they are gestures and recognition to those who devote their time to these issues. Science. I see that the proposal of the People's Party and that of the Catalan Democratic Party put science aside. The PP, in that respect, also passed us in the past. Don't be afraid to fully incorporate science into patronage. We did not need a pandemic to realize the importance of science. Citizens is the third culture party, in the sense of John Brockman, Steven Pinker, Kahneman, Richard Dawkins, Jay Gould... We firmly believe in the importance of incorporating science into the social debate. It is important that society has a scientific record. Just as it is known that Shakespeare wrote Hamlet, that it is known what is a virus or the importance of vaccines and thus not leave room for the conspiracy, which has also been left. A well-informed society is stronger in the face of conspiracy theories or misinformation. We believe that it is good to strengthen links between society and the scientific community. With regard to tax benefits, what we seek in our law is to bring them closer to the European average. We believe that the percentage of deduction can be approximated to 50%. It also makes no sense to treat the natural person or the legal person in an unfavourable way - and neither do these rules. The natural person has more difficulty in posing as patrons, so we propose to raise the limit of deduction to 20%. In short, we propose an autonomous law of sponsorship and we will try, by amendment, to incorporate many of our issues into the legislative text. We believe that the contributions we can make will greatly enrich this law. We will therefore abstain from this amendment as a whole. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-13-CD210513.u157	Thank you very much, Mr. Díaz. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, I have the floor Mr Guijarro García.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-13-CD210513.u158	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Just a few weeks after this House has taken into consideration the PeCAT proposal for a law on sponsorship activities, we are again being called into this debate on the amendment to the whole tabled by the Group of the European People's Party. The truth is that, after reading the text of the proposer, it does not just make clear to us why an amendment to the whole. From what I've heard here today, it seems we're not the only ones who have these doubts. We were able to find in the previous debate a certain consensus on the need for a law of sponsorship, since the current legislation, the Law on the tax system of non-profit entities and on tax incentives to sponsorship, dated from 2002, i.e. from 19 years ago, more than enough time to subject the rule to an in-depth update and to adapt it to the new circumstances. There was also a clear coincidence in the importance of providing non-profit or public-interest entities with sufficient tools for financing them. To this end, the State should not only transfer direct resources to these activities, but also implement a whole system of fiscal incentives for the responsible and efficient involvement of the private sector in their sustainability. Already during the last crisis, that of a decade ago, the drastic and sudden reduction of public funding demonstrated the desirability of opening up space and encouraging the entry of private capital in order to compensate and correct the excessive dependence of the State. There was also a certain understanding in extending the concept not only to non-profit activities, the relevance of which in these months has been fundamental to meeting needs to which the State simply does not arrive, but also those linked, for example, to the world of sport or culture, so punished, by the way, and so demanded in these strange days that have touched us. None of these consensuses are challenged by the text that is being discussed today. Certainly, the proposal includes some significant difference in the system of tax incentives with respect to the text that it intends to amend. It also incorporates some interesting chapter, worthy of discussion at least, as regards, for example, the social recognition of patronage, its chapter II. But, ladies and gentlemen, for this journey, as you have already been told here today, there was no need for these saddlebags. In fact, its alternative text seems rather a compendium of partial amendments than a proposal for a law, and these partial amendments will have their corresponding space in the legislative process that is already under way. So the question is, what are we doing here today? Perhaps the People's Party intends to stage a certain will for a somewhat more purposeful position after months, but years, installed in the no, nothing, never. Finally, they may want to give importance to their initiative because they receive a new opportunity to place the medal of those who lower taxes. The case is that, after listening to the spokesman of the People's Party in his speech, I still cannot get out of this doubt: why we are here, why it has not been dealt with through partial amendments. Furthermore, we have announced our vote against and hope to be able to continue with the legislative procedure which Mr Valentí and Mr PdeCAT had so pertinently initiated. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. Good afternoon. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-13-CD210513.u159	Thank you very much, Mr. Guijarro. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you. Mr Ramírez del Río has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-13-CD210513.u160	With the venom. When the first PSOE executive, José Guirao, Minister of Culture and Sports of that cabinet, arrived in 2018, he announced his support for a new law of patronage, which was also considered imminent, and which was supposed to be a continuation of the work that had already taken place in this Chamber. In the first appearances of his successor, two years later, Mr. Rodríguez Uribes announced more or less the same, the imminence of a bill he considered to be well advanced. Last April - very little time ago, as some of the participants here have considered - we accepted the consideration of a proposal for a law by Mr Miquel i Valentí, of PeCAT, to amend the Law of patronage of 2002, which was the reiteration of a proposal of Convergence and Union of 2014. To my surprise, it was supported not only by Podemos, but also by the PSOE, the party of Minister Rodríguez Uribes, who thus recognized his distrust that the minister could carry on, could advance the law of patronage announced for three years now. I would add this to the departure of quite relevant people from her cabinet, such as Mrs Irene Lozano, who headed for a seat in the opposition of the Madrid Community, leaving a post like the presidency of the Higher Sports Council, it became clear to what extent we were faced with a fully amortized minister, who had neither the support of his parliamentary group, nor his team, nor much less the support of the very sectors of the world of culture. This was really the great lesson that let us take into consideration. The consideration of this proposal of the DeCAT was a kind of certificate of political death of a part of this government and the People's Party was the only one who voted against, demonstrating to what extent it was not knowing what was happening at that time. The text of the PeCAT proposal has some aspects that can be improved. In fact, I have already told you during the previous debate, and I am also convinced that when the presentation is opened, this text will be able to be greatly improved, since since the original wording of the text in 2014 there has been great progress. Today, for example, you have mentioned micro-mechanism, and during my speech, for example, I pointed out to you errors such as the treatment of unavailable capital funds, which was a matter which had been adopted in France quite a few years ago and which had been proved wrong. These are aspects of the text that I believe should be improved. Other speakers in that debate also raised aspects of the text that needed to be polished, and the People's Party itself focused its opposition on the attempt to acquire competition from the Catalan community, which is something you have mentioned. It is not explicitly mentioned in the text and they have commented on it in their second speech, which, frankly, has missed me. We did not consider this to be the case, although, of course, it was an aspect that could simply be retouched in the paper. The proposed text, as we pointed out in April, means an improvement in the legislation that we currently have, which is why, in the absence of the famous project that had been announced thousands of times, as is so often the case with this government, a large majority of this House decided to support the consideration. We understand that the People's Party presents a much broader text in which not only the fiscal aspect is touched. I liked the intervention of the spokesman for Citizens also talking about the inclusion of universities, because during a visit I made to the Hebrew University of Jerusalem I saw that you could practically find a plaque in each team, in each room, that somehow emphasized the importance of the donations that had been received by that center and that it was something important in that society. In the foundations, in whose patronage I participated in Spain, there were few such honorary incentives. The social relevance of donors from other countries must be a model for us, and that is something that we must encourage as much as possible. However, a Government in which we can participate, whose members have repeatedly insulted our country's largest donors, who have contributed in a disinterested way with hundreds of millions of euros, we believe that it should reconsider the creation of administrative bodies that make them dependent on them and force them to establish a relationship with a Government in which, as I say, we can participate, which has repeatedly insulted them, and should postpone it for the best occasion, at best. [[Applauds]] The establishment of a bureaucracy with its plans no longer five years, but six years, also seems to us to refer to the worst of the People's Party, to that social democracy that seeks to eat the ground to the PSOE assuming its postulates and that generates an elephantic administration that bureaucratizes all aspects of our civil society, contributing to its asphyxiation. If something does not need our country, it is an administrative apparatus such as the one they propose to ensure patronage. Despite some positive points in your proposal, because we do not consider it appropriate to create more administration and because of the government that you would give more control over the patronage of the Spaniards, we will abstain in the vote on this amendment as a whole. Thank you, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-13-CD210513.u161	Thank you very much, Mr. Ramírez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Many thanks to the services of the House. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Lamuà Español has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-13-CD210513.u162	Thank you, President. Mrs. Llanos de Luna, I remembered when she was speaking that famous phrase of hers, when she said, "I think it's important that there are pious and rich people, who are the ones who spend and consume. Therefore, when you go up to this rostrum to talk about micro-mecenation or'crowdfunding' you have less credibility than an atheist giving Mass, because here you don't come to defend what contradicts your entire political career. And he believed, even, that the most surrealist intervention would be his reply to Mr Sergi Miquel, but then, as always, they came to save the lords of VOX, because it has been overcome by distributing cards of political death and drawing a chaos that exists only in their heads but not in Spain, and it is that only from a very narrow vision of the world can one confuse the pact, the will to dialogue between different, to share initiatives with surrender or with surrender. And it is that I understand it, to you the mechanisms of parliamentary democracy are surprising - I understand - to you, they are something quite alien. Our differences in sponsorship are fundamental, ladies and gentlemen, and it became clear in the debate under consideration in March, and as far as Mrs Llanos de Luna is concerned, sponsorship for PP is merely economic. They can even give you a social cosmetic patina for what you don't say, but everyone is what they are. I remember the words in this rostrum of Mr. Carazo in the middle of Madrid's pre-campaign, when he said that patronage was freedom and that collecting, taxing, was socialism. It is no wonder that those who confuse freedom with going from reeds think that the welfare state is a yoke that oppresses citizens. That's right, it is until they see their prebends endangered; then, they want to be the first ones on the list to sit on the lap of Dad State trampling even citizens, who do, always depend on the welfare state to exist and function. And in his speech about patronage, honors of the PP, and in his proposal of law underlies that aversion to the public. You see in public investment, particularly in culture, an expense, a whim. As they also said in some intervention, voluntary solidarity was freedom and subsidy or support was socialism. [[The lady]] I will make it clear that the freedom of culture in this country, of sport in this country, of research in this country and of cooperation in this country is to know that culture, that sport, that research and that cooperation has intrinsic value and is always essential in the short, medium and long term. Therefore, all these projects should know that they not only depend on the luck of finding a patron, on the willingness of a patron or on an aggressive marketing campaign to raise funds. They must trust that we believe that culture, sport and research are essential. By the way, believing that is part of freedom. The welfare state supposes not to depend on the rich, the powerful, the dick; it is the guarantee of freedom for all forever. From a socialist point of view, there are certain fundamental elements around the substantive debate on sponsorship that must be made clear. First, the activity of sponsorship cannot be a mechanism of tax avoidance; it must be an act of generosity, an act whose main recognition should not be fiscal but moral and civic. Secondly, it must never be a way of replacing the activity of the State of promotion and support of culture, research, sport of cooperation; it must be a way, yes, of increasing and strengthening that activity, of complementing that collective commitment from individuality. And thirdly, culture, sport, research and cooperation must always be understood not as expenditure but as investment. I also believe that after this year of pandemic we understand the value of creating content, of creating ideas, of generating intellectual wealth for a human society like ours has been fully demonstrated and we must make it central to our general discourse. [[Applauds]] For this reason, let us make it clear, today and forever, to the People's Party, to the various right-wings - the courageous right-wing, the coward; I do not know how that is distributed today - that in this Chamber, while there is only one socialist in that bench, we will not let the State disagree with the support, culture, sport, research or cooperation, because the best patron of all is the State; because we are all collectively, in a participatory way, who protect, promote and defend what is common to us; because the best collective contribution to sponsorship, despite what the People's Party thinks, is to tax, and everything that philanthropy generates most will always be welcomed and must be taken into account, as the Spanish Government in the midst of the pandemic, increasing incentives for sponsorship. [[pointing out the seats of the Socialist Parliamentary Group]] Under no circumstances will we allow any attempt to launder this commitment due by the State to our culture, our sport or our research to be masked in private public collaboration. What you are doing today - and I also respond to Mr Sergi Miquel's question - presenting this amendment in its entirety is to get rid of the future debate. Anyone who amends the whole little will want to contribute to the discussions that will follow. They have been doing so for a long time in the country's governance, and doing so in this House repeatedly. They give up vertebrating Spain from a conservative perspective.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-13-CD210513.u163	Mr. Lamuà, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-13-CD210513.u164	I'm done, President. Now they also do so in patronage, in which their vision is not so far from that of PeCAT; they share a lot of conservative optics, and it is legitimate. That People's Party capable of forging state pacts from the difference...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-13-CD210513.u165	Mr. Lamuà, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-13-CD210513.u166	I'm done, President. ...has not been and is not expected for a long time. It has been removed from all that important for Spain, today also in the patronage. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-13-CD210513.u167	Thank you very much, Mr Lamuà, Ladies and gentlemen, we will vote in three minutes. I remind you that you will only be able to vote from the seat that corresponds to you, identified with your name on the screen. I would also remind you that those Members who have been authorized to vote for the telematics procedure cannot do so from their seats. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-13-CD210513.u168	Ladies and gentlemen, we shall begin the voting. No-law propositions. No bill proposed by the Socialist Parliamentary Group on rare diseases. The vote was taken in accordance with the compromise amendment tabled by the Socialist Parliamentary Group, the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal and the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 102 plus 244 telematics votes, 346; in favour, 102 plus 244 telematics votes, 346.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-13-CD210513.u169	It's approved. [[Applauds]] - OF THE VOX PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, ON AVOIDING PRICE CONTROL MEASURES OF THE ALTERNATIVE AND/OR EXPROPIATION OF UNEMPLOYED LIVING. [[File number 162/000607]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-13-CD210513.u170	No legislative proposal by the VOX Parliamentary Group to avoid measures to control rent prices and penalize and/or expropriate vacant housing. It shall be put to the vote on its terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 102 plus 244 telematics votes, 346; in favour, 42 plus 110 telematics votes, 152; against, 60 plus 134 telematics votes, 194.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-13-CD210513.u171	It's rejected.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-13-CD210513.u172	Motions resulting from urgent appeals. Motion following urgent inquiry by the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group on the dismantling and closure of the Royal Bardens firing range. It shall be put to the vote on its terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 102 plus 244 telematics votes, 346; 33 telematics votes, against 102 plus 170 telematics votes, 272; abstentions, 41 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-13-CD210513.u173	It's rejected. - the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress, to enable the Government to explain the tax charges it is planning to carry out A CABO AND ITS POSITION WITH REGARD TO THE FINANCIAL AUTOMATION OF THE AUTONOMOUS COMMUNITIES. [[File number 173/000070]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-13-CD210513.u174	Motion following urgent inquiry by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, for the Government to explain the tax increases it intends to carry out and its position on the financial autonomy of the autonomous communities. The vote was taken on the terms resulting from the incorporation of the amendment tabled by the People's Parliamentary Group in the Congress. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 102 plus 243 telematics votes, 345; in favour, 42 plus 112 telematics votes, 154; against, 60 plus 130 telematics votes, 190; abstentions, 1 telematics vote.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-13-CD210513.u175	It's rejected. - OF THE VOX PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, ON THE MEASURES TO BE TAKEN BY THE GOVERNMENT TO RELIEF THE SPANISH TAX EXERCISE. [[File number 173/000071]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-13-CD210513.u176	Motion for an urgent appeal by the VOX Parliamentary Group on measures to be taken by the Government to alleviate the Spanish fiscal effort. It shall be put to the vote on its terms. The voting was as follows: 102 plus 244 telematics votes, 346; in favour, 42 plus 110 telematics votes, 152; against, 60 plus 132 telematics votes, 192; abstentions, 2 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-13-CD210513.u177	It's rejected.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-13-CD210513.u178	Opinions of committees of inquiry. Opinion of the Committee of Inquiry concerning the accident at flight JK5022 from Spanair. Vote on the opinion of the Committee of Inquiry on the accident at flight JK 5022 from Spanair. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: votes were cast, 102 plus 244 votes were cast by telematics, 346; in favour, 41 plus 178 votes were cast by telematics, 219; against, 61 plus 60 votes by telematics, 121; abstentions, 6 votes by telematics.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-13-CD210513.u179	The opinion was adopted. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-13-CD210513.u180	Validation or repeal of royal decree-laws. Royal Decree-Law 6/2021 of 20 April, adopting complementary measures to support businesses and self-employed affected by the COVID-19 pandemic. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: 102 plus 244 votes in favour, 346; 102 plus 192 votes in favour, 294; abstentions, 52 votes in favour, 294.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-13-CD210513.u181	The royal decree-law is validated. The processing of this royal decree-law has been requested as a bill by the urgency procedure, so we proceed to vote on that request. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: cast, 102 plus 243 votes in favour, 345; cast, 102 plus 234 votes in favour, 336; cast, 6 votes in favour, with 6 votes in favour, with 3 votes in favour, with 3 votes in favour.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-13-CD210513.u182	It is therefore dealt with as a draft law by the urgency procedure. - REAL DECRETO-LEY 7/2021, OF 27 APRIL, TRANSPOSITION OF DIRECTIVES OF THE EUROPEAN UNION IN COMPETITION MATTERS, PREVENTION OF THE BLANCH OF CAPITALS, CREDIT ENTITIES, TELECOMMUNICATIONS, TRIBUTARY MEASURES, PREVENTION AND REPAIR OF ENVIRONMENTAL DAMAGE, DISPLAY OF WORKERS IN THE PROVISION OF TRANSNATIONAL SERVICES, AND DEFENCE OF CONSUMERS. [[File number 130/000047]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-13-CD210513.u183	Royal Decree-Law 7/2021 of 27 April on the transposition of directives of the European Union in the fields of competition, prevention of money laundering, credit institutions, telecommunications, tax measures, prevention and repair of environmental damage, displacement of workers in the provision of transnational services and consumer protection. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: cast, 102 plus 243 votes in favour, 345; cast, 102 plus 218 votes in favour, 320; cast, 13 votes in favour, with 13 votes in favour, with 12 votes in favour, with 12 votes in favour.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-13-CD210513.u184	The royal decree-law is validated. The processing of this royal decree-law has been requested as a bill by the urgency procedure, so we proceed to vote on that request. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: votes were cast, 102 plus 244 votes were cast by telematics, 346; in favour, 102 plus 240 votes were cast by telematics, 342; abstentions, 4 votes were cast by telematics.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-13-CD210513.u185	It is therefore dealt with as a draft law by the urgency procedure.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-13-CD210513.u186	Senate amendments to the climate change and energy transition bill. Separate vote on the amendments. Amendments to article 1, article 15.6 and the ninth, first twelfth, final provision. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: cast, 102 plus 244 votes in favour, 346; cast, 62 plus 143 votes in favour, 205; cast, 40 plus 101 votes in favour, 141.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-13-CD210513.u187	The amendments were adopted. Amendment to Article 20.4. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: cast, 102 plus 244 votes in favour, 346; cast, 60 plus 190 votes in favour, 250; cast, 42 plus 48 votes in favour, 90; cast, 6 votes in favour.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-13-CD210513.u188	It's approved. Amendment to Article 24.2. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: cast, 102 plus 244 votes cast by telematics, 346; in favour, 60 plus 130 votes cast by telematics, 190; against, 1 vote cast by telematics; abstentions, 42 plus 113 votes cast by telematics, 155.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-13-CD210513.u189	It's approved. Amendment to article 30.4, paragraph 2 The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: cast, 102 plus 244 votes in favour, 346; cast, 60 plus 135 votes in favour, 195; cast, 4 votes in favour, 42 plus 105 votes in favour, 147.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-13-CD210513.u190	It's approved. Amendment to the final provision, formerly eleventh. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: cast, 102 plus 244 votes in favour, 346; cast, 60 plus 131 votes in favour, 191; cast, 40 plus 58 votes in favour, 98; cast, 2 plus 55 votes in favour, 57.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-13-CD210513.u191	It's approved. Rest of the amendments. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: cast, 102 plus 244 votes cast by telematics, 346; in favour, 59 plus 138 votes cast by telematics, 197; against, 1 vote cast by telematics; abstentions, 43 plus 105 votes cast by telematics, 148.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-13-CD210513.u192	They're approved. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-13-CD210513.u193	Opinions of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on International Conventions. Partnership and cooperation agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Singapore, of the other part, made 'ad referendum' in Brussels on 19 October 2018. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 102 plus 242 votes cast by telematics, 344; in favour, 101 plus 182 votes cast by telematics, 283; against, 1 vote cast by telematics; abstentions, 1 plus 59 votes cast by telematics, 60.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-13-CD210513.u194	The opinion was adopted. - THE FIRST ECONOMIC ASSOCIATION AGREEMENT BETWEEN GHANA, ON THE ONE PART, AND THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITY AND THEIR MEMBER STATES, ON THE OTHER PART, DONE IN BRUSSELS ON 28 JULY 2016. [[File number 110/000053]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-13-CD210513.u195	Preliminary Economic Partnership Agreement between Ghana, of the one part, and the European Community and its Member States, of the other part, done at Brussels on 28 July 2016. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 102 plus 242 telematics votes, 344; in favour, 102 plus 180 telematics votes, 282; against, 38 telematics votes; abstentions, 24 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-13-CD210513.u196	The opinion was adopted. - AGREEMENT FOR THE TERMINATION OF BILATERAL INVESTMENT TREATIES BETWEEN THE MEMBER STATES OF THE EUROPEAN UNION, DONE IN BRUSSELS ON 5 MAY 2020. [[File number 110/000055]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-13-CD210513.u197	Agreement for the termination of bilateral investment treaties between the Member States of the European Union, done at Brussels on 5 May 2020. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 102 plus 241 telematics votes, 343; 102 plus 165 telematics votes, 267; abstentions, 76 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-13-CD210513.u198	The opinion was adopted. - CONVENTION BETWEEN THE KINGDOM OF SPAIN AND THE PRINCIPATE OF ANDORRA ON COOPERATION IN THE FIELD OF COMBATING CRIMINATION AND SECURITY, I DID 'AD REFERENDUM' IN MADRID ON 2 SEPTEMBER 2015. [[File number 110/000054]] - AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE KINGDOM OF SPAIN AND THE REPUBLIC OF NIGER ON THE FREE EXERCISE OF REmunERATED ACTIVITIES FOR FAMILY DEPENDENTS OF THE DIPLOMATIC, CONSULAR, ADMINISTRATIVE AND TECHNICAL DIPLOMATIC MISSIONS AND CONSULAR OFFICES, DONE IN NIAMEY ON 29 OCTOBER 2018. [[File number 110/000056]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-13-CD210513.u199	Joint vote on the other opinions of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on international conventions. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 102 plus 242 telematics votes, 344; in favour, 102 plus 222 telematics votes, 324; abstentions, 20 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-13-CD210513.u200	Opinions were adopted.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-13-CD210513.u201	Discussions on all legislative initiatives. Vote on the amendment to the entire alternative text to the proposed law amending Act No. 49/2002 of 23 December 2002 on the taxation of non-profit entities and on tax incentives for sponsorship, presented by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 102 plus 244 telematics votes, 346; in favour, 42 plus 52 telematics votes, 94; against, 60 plus 129 telematics votes, 189; abstentions, 63 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-13-CD210513.u202	The amendment to the whole alternative text was rejected. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The meeting rose. It was four and fifteen minutes in the afternoon.
