ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. The meeting was called to order. Take your seats, please. Prior to the consideration of the agenda, we shall proceed to the oath or promise of compliance with the Constitution, in accordance with Article 20.1.3 of the Rules of Procedure. In place of Noelia Vera Ruiz-Herrera, asked Don JuanAntonio Delgado Ramos if he swears or promises to abide by the Constitution.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u2	I promise.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u3	Thank you very much. Don Juan Antonio Delgado Ramos has acquired the full status of MP. Congratulations. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u4	In accordance with Rule 68.1 of the Rules of Procedure and as agreed by the spokespersons, this Presidency submits to the plenary of the House the amendment of the agenda in order to exclude the urgent inquiry by the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Baldoví Roda, which appears as item 16 of the agenda. Does the House remember that? [[Consent]] The amendment to the agenda was therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u5	We begin with questions addressed to the Government in accordance with the order sent by the Government. Questions to the President of the Government. Question by Mr Pablo Casado Blanco, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u6	Mr Sánchez, you are the President of the Government for failing to fulfil all the promises. He promised not to agree with Podemos or Bildu or the separatists, and here he is again agreeing the budgets to remain in power with them. He promised to build 20,000 homes; he has not built one, and on top of that he is going to load the rental market bringing here a chavista law. He promised to turn off the light; it has risen by 500 % and is ruining homes and businesses that are already closing. He promised not to raise taxes to the working classes; he already has 9 billion and says there is room for about 80 000. He promised not to leave anyone behind, but according to Caritas there are already six million Spaniards at risk of severe poverty. He promised employment for young people, but he just bought his vote with peronist bonds to buy video games and comics. Well, that's what their budgets are, budgets that are ruinous, that are fake and that are born dead. He was told by the INE last week and told by the IMF yesterday: he lies in all his predictions. It sells green outbreaks, when unemployment doubles the European average, when it owes EUR 40 billion to the European Central Bank, when it is unable to implement even 4% of funds over a whole year. This is gonna end badly because of you. He will pass as Zapatero, and the PP will have to rescue Spain for the third time. But why does he not make reforms instead of continuing to squander for electoral purposes? Who are you lying to? Brussels, the Spanish or everyone? Are you going to keep any of your election promises? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u7	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u8	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you, Mr Casado, for your thoughtful speech, as usual on Wednesdays. [[Rumors]] I have to say that the Spanish Government's approach is to reach 42.6% compliance with its electoral programme, its investment agreement at the end of the year. In any case, you will allow me to say a few things about your intervention, and I believe that a politician, a public leader, should consider and measure your interventions, especially because you can make a tough, strong opposition, but not make statements that are contrary to the interests of Spain and the Spanish. That is why, as you do not rectify, but also persevere, I am obliged to publicly correct. Look, Spain is not bankrupt, Your Honor; Spain is growing, Spain is creating jobs: we are at pre-pandemic employment levels, and Spain has a low risk premium. Therefore, I do not know where your opposition will lead, but in any case I ask you, Your Honor, not to make statements that, in addition to being false and insulting the intelligence of the Spaniards, are contrary to the interest of Spain and the Spaniards. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u9	Mr. Married.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u10	You confuse the image of Spain with the image of your government, which cannot be worse. But speaking of unfulfilled promises, you too have failed one, which is depoliticizing justice. [[Protests]] Why does he betray his own word and not allow judges to choose judges? It's just that no one understands. We will not be moved by the defence of judicial independence, as the European Commission has already asked in writing in June. It is your sole responsibility to block this. But as he regains his word, today I will make a proposal to him: let us now renew the other constitutional bodies, as the Constitution obliges us, in a procedure that did not undermine the Socialist Party. He has the opportunity to answer now and also to modify the presentation of the federal congress that says that it forbids him to compromise with the centreright and with which they say it is the old social democracy, because that is sanchism: radicalism and sectarianism wrapped in lies and accusations to others. But now the ball is on his roof. Think about your health cordons and your attacks on institutions. Yesterday he heard what the street says about you. [[Protests]] We're not catastrophic.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u11	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u12	What we think is that you are a catastrophe for Spain. You should tie your shoulder and not take us all to the ravine. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u13	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u14	Whenever he governs the left, Your Honor, there are whispers and insults to the presidents of the left. [[Protests.-Applause.]] That is how you and the far right understand coexistence and respect for the constitutional order. Your Honor, you were asking whether or not we are in compliance with our election program. I will simply tell you the following: on page 18 of the Socialist Party's electoral programme, commitment to raise the interprofessional minimum wage in these three years 230 euros; on page 20 of the Socialist Party's electoral programme, commitment to revalue pensions under the CPI, commitment fulfilled - by the way, I do not understand how you vote against this just demand for pensioners and pensioners - ; commitment to increase the number of scholarships in our country, page 26 of the Socialist Party's electoral programme: the departure has increased by 2000 million euros right now, with 850,000 students benefiting; commitment to create a vital minimum income, page 30: there are 800 000 compatriots who today benefit from this benefit created by the Socialist Party's government; commitment, ladies and gentlemen, as it may be, for example - and I want to highlight it - on page 33, renew the constitutional bodies. [[applause]] [[rumors]] That is the commitment of the Socialist Party. It's true that that's what we need you for, but you don't want to. I say to you, Your Honor, that you do not have a vantage point of democratic legality. It complies with all democratic legality and fulfils the commitments of the Constitution. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u15	Thank you very much, Mr President. - THE DEVELOPED DONATOR ESTEBAN BRAVO, THE VASCO PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT: HOW DO YOU THINK TO SOLUTION [[EAJ-PNV]] THE PROBABLY IMPLICATION OF THE COSTS OF ELECTRICITY IN INDUSTRY'S COMPETITIVENESS? [[File number 180/00674]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u16	Question by Mr Aitor Esteban Bravo, Member of the Basque Parliamentary Group [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u17	Good morning, Mr. President. My question is about job maintenance, the future of the economy, increased tax collection and social policies. It is clear that you had to do something about the price of electricity, that decisions had to be made, but all the consequences of these decisions must also be taken into account. The last decree-law has very positive measures, not only with regard to the domestic consumer, but as is conceived what is happening is that electrics pass on their losses to fixed contracts of industrial customers. This is causing some companies to stop their production and, if we continue to do so, it is going to start new ERTEs. Of course, we need to clarify things, we need to prevent those companies that have diversified energy sources from playing with them to get as much benefit as possible, and it is not acceptable for electric companies to use them as a ram for their own interests. But the solution, Mr President, is not that simple electric cut-off solution, this is much deeper. Companies are facing a shortage of raw materials and their high prices. Now this can be a blow that will definitely knock them down and that means less work, less investment, less exports, less GDP, less collection and, therefore, less social policies. So I urge you to do something, not just at European level, you must do something now and here, from your own government. In our view, it should do so by reorienting and reorienting the decree-law that will be voted here in this House tomorrow. You know that the future of the economy is at stake if you work for the growth of the economy and industrial production. The future of the economy is at stake, but also - you know - the future of your own government. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u18	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u19	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Esteban, we do share with you the concern about rising energy prices in wholesale markets, and we also share with you the viability of our country's industry. We have always been committed to the reindustrialization of our country. In fact, the European funds, if they are intended for something, are precisely to create employment and re-industrialise our country in that energy transition which must be fair. Indeed, you are asking whether we are doing something at European level; to you it seems insufficient, to me it seems key: we need to reform the electricity market at European level, and we also need to improve Europe's negotiating capacity with regard to those who manufacture or, rather, produce and export natural gas. Finally, what we also have to do is stop speculation in the CO2 emission markets that are obviously inflated as a result of that financial speculation. Your Honor, I'll tell you one thing, too. You say that it is insufficient, but it seems to me to be social justice that those energy companies that are charging above their costs today, in an extraordinary way, raise their shoulders and lend a hand so that it does not impact on the receipt of the light precisely that rise. [[Applauds]] In any case, I will tell you the following, Your Honor: at national level, the Government of Spain - and this has also been one of the long demands of your parliamentary group, Mr Esteban - in December last year approved the Statute of the Electrointensive Consumers; secondly, we have also proposed compensatory aid for the costs of indirect emissions of CO2 and, thirdly - you, your group and your political party, which are a party of government, you know - we have put in place fiscal measures - the reduction of VAT, the reduction of the special tax on electricity, the suspension of the tax on the value of electricity production, etc. - that you are having a very important loss in the collection, and that you are assuming first person in this case the Government of Spain and the General Administration of the State. In any case, I will tell you that, in extraordinary circumstances such as the present, it is essential, to summarise, to ensure the electricity prices agreed with the industry prior to the gas rally. Secondly,facilitate the signing of new bilateral electricity supply contracts at affordable prices, outside the wholesale market, and that is what the Spanish Government is working on with electricity companies and industry. In other words, it is necessary to clarify and clarify what is needed by Royal Decree 17/2021 in order to ensure that this is the case and, consequently, does not cause any harm to domestic consumers or to industrial consumers. Therefore, Your Honor, we share the concern and also the political will to do so from the government... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u20	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Esteban.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u21	Mr President, you know that this royal decree needs to be retouched, because without competitiveness there is no economic recovery. By the way, another thing: we have been saying for years that they invest in gas infrastructure, because it is the backup energy, in transport and storage. They haven't paid much attention, and we're heading for a very complicated winter. It also reorients that policy. - OF THE DEVELOPED Mrs Mertxe AIZPURUA ARZALLUS, OF THE PARLIAMENTARY GROUP EUSKAL HERRIA BILDU, WHO FORMULATES THE PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT: WHY IS CITIZENSHIP WHO DECIDES ON THEIR POLITICAL, ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL FUTURE? [[File number 180/00663]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u22	Question by Mrs Mertxe Aizpurua Arzallus of the Parliamentary Group Euskal Herria Bildu.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u23	Mr. Sanchez, good morning. Independenceists and independenceists have always argued that making citizens subject to decision will always be the best democratic instrument in making decisions that affect society. We believe that this Government should put it into practice if it really wants to make progress in the democratization of this State. That is why I ask you whether you bet that it is citizens who decide on their political, economic and social future.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u24	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u25	Thank you, Madam President. Your Honor, it is clear that we share that citizens have to decide on their economic, political and social future, but I am very afraid that we do indeed have a discrepancy as to how to express that decision on the political, economic and social future of our country. We believe in representative democracy. Moreover, we believe that to say otherwise is to feed the discourse of illegitimacy posed by the right and the right, yes, because after all it is saying that they are not legitimate decisions. [[Mrs. Aizpurua Arzallus makes negative gestures]] Here the popular will expressed in the ballot box in the form of the representation of the parliamentary groups is clearly expressed, and I believe that this is the best way to decide the political, economic and social future of our country. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u26	Mrs. Aizpurua.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u27	Yes, Mr Sánchez, we do have a discrepancy, because asking citizens to decide is the most democratic way to resolve conflicts. Reducing participation to vote every four years a series of promises that are often not even fulfilled is not enough, it should not be. Faced with a huge problem such as housing - you will know - in Berlin a consultation has been made for citizens to decide whether to expropriate thousands of homes to the big forks; in Switzerland they decided in referendum to limit the number of houses destined for second residences; in Italy they are preparing for the referendum on the regulation of cannabis, and in France to decide how to integrate the climate emergency into their legal order; Scotland votes for its independence, and will do so again. They are just examples that highlight that in Europe participatory democracy, giving the floor to citizens, is something common and common, neither divide nor confront; they are accepted and respected democratic expressions. However, it is not possible here. In Spain it is not possible to decide on the expropriation of dwellings or on the regulation of rents or on bulls or on the public recovery of electricity or whether it is time to put an end to the Spanish monarchy or to allow nations without a State to decide on their future. Mr President, this State has these and many structural conflicts to resolve: territorial, economic and social. We ask you to be the president to take the citizen's decision as another democratic instrument in decision-making. In short, we ask you to stop acting as the right hand and show that this Government, which is defined as progressive, acts as such and not only says it, but does things differently. Eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u28	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u29	President, ladies and gentlemen, you speak of the regulation of cannabis by referendum, also of price control, but of rondón raises the right to self-determination in this case of the Basque Country. Look at whether democracy in Spain is strong and inclusive that next week, when ten years of the end of terrorism are coming to pass, it is precisely Spanish democracy that has defeated terrorism and today you can freely express your views and interests here in the General Courts. [[Applauds]] Therefore, Your Honor, I deny you the greatest, this is a solid democracy. I'm not saying it, the international benchmarks say it. Indeed, any democracy can improve its functioning, its transparency, its exemplaryness. We absolutely agree and with that will, but the Spanish people - and also in this case what you represent - are expressed in the parliamentary procedures, in the amendments they present, in the votes at the plenary session of the Congress on all the bills put forward by the Government of Spain, in the parliamentary initiatives of the rest of the parliamentary groups. In short, Your Honor, this is a full democracy, and what we are not going to accept is to divide Spanish society, or in this case Basque society, according to interested and binary referendums, which not only do not fit into the Spanish Constitution - and therefore already with that it would be enough to say no -, but from the point of view even social, at a time when we see the acceleration of the integration of the European Union, where we see that, for example, in the field of social agents, trade unions and employers are giving an example to follow in unity, agree, and that we can also do so in the General Courts, I believe that the worst we can do to break up, divide with binary referendums that do not help or contribute anything. Thank you. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEVELOPED GAMARRA RUIZ-CLAVIJO DESIGN OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, which FORMULATES THE VICE-President OF THE AND MINISTER OF ECONOMIC AFFAIRS AND DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION: DOES THE ECONOMIC MEASURES OF SUPPORT TO AUTONOMS, SMEs AND BIG ENTERPRISES BE EFFECTIVE? [[File number 180/00665]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u30	Questions to the first Vice-President of the Government and Minister for Economic Affairs and Digital Transformation. Question by Mrs Concepción Gamarra Ruiz-Clavijo of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u31	Thank you, President. Madam Vice-President, since the President of the Government has left and has not answered the question of the leader of the opposition, as the first Vice-President, can you tell us whether you are prepared to renew the rest of the constitutional bodies as soon as you decide to move forward in the depoliticization of justice? Madam Vice-President, of the 40 billion envisaged for ICO investment loans, only 8000, 20% have been granted; of the 10 billion of SEPI's strategic fund, only seven cases have been resolved, which is summarised in EUR 13 billion. That's right, the Plus Ultra is resolved, while the rest of the companies are still waiting. Of the 7 billion direct aid to small businesses and SMEs, the chaos of its March decree has caused around 90% of small businesses not even to be able to ask for it. His Government had adopted measures to alleviate the effects of the pandemic much later than the rest of Europe and, as always, badly, because the funds had not been able to reach those who needed them. Why? For its bureaucracy and for establishing requirements that are impossible to meet. Mrs Calviño, do you think that economic measures to support self-employed people, SMEs and businesses are being effective? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u32	Madam First Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u33	Thank you very much, President. For over a year now, since March last year, we have been setting up a safety net to protect workers, citizens and businesses in our country, with a special emphasis on small and medium-sized enterprises and self-employed workers. We have deployed up to ten types of protection measures - not this government, all of them have been validated by this Parliament, of all of them we have deployed up to ten measures - starting with the ICO's guarantees, which have mobilised 132 billion euros in loans, reaching 700,000 companies; we have extended the deadlines for repayment and lack of credits; we have established extraordinary mechanisms for the protection of the self-employed; moratoriums on the payment of taxes; the funds of Cofides and SEPI; the allocation of the REACTEUR fund among the autonomous communities; the 3000 million euros for the code of good practice with the banks for the possible restructuring of debts, and the 7 billion direct aid. By the way, yesterday the President of Balearic Islands confirmed to me that they have already distributed 100 % of this aid, as have other autonomous communities, which had a greater need. In short, if anything has characterized the Spanish response to the pandemic in economic and social terms, it has been anticipation, determination and effectiveness, and so we have avoided a fall in GDP of more than 25%, the destruction of three million jobs, a huge damage to the population as a whole, and we have preserved financial stability. So yes, Your Honor, I believe that the measures taken are being effective. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u34	Mrs. Gamarra.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u35	Madam Vice-President: anticipation and effectiveness, and we are behind all the international indicators, and we are always the last to reach everything. But you are characterized by not answering anything. He did not answer the question of whether they were prepared to renew the bodies that were pending, and he usually counted what he approved. I'll tell you what's not coming. The measures approved by your Government - I believe that with your approval or perhaps not - what they mean continually is to put clubs on the wheel of the real economy: tax increases, increases in contributions to self-employed people and businesses, to which must be added the rise in fixed costs by the disorbiting prices of light, which cause companies like Sidenor already to announce that they are paralysing their production for twenty days. Madam Vice-President, we must add to all this the attacks on private property and legal uncertainty, that what you are doing is blowing up the investment and that the savers do not trust you. With these limbs nobody is surprised that with you we have, yes, 350,000 more public jobs, but 290 000 fewer private employees. Your announcements, do you know what credibility you have, Mrs. Calviño? Like you, none. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u36	Madam First Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u37	Thank you. Mrs. Gamarra, you really are settled in which we are the worst, we are always the last. You're in the no corner. It's really sad, but I can't get them out of there. Anyway... You know very well that the number of Social Security affiliates is above pre-pandemic levels, that youth unemployed are below pre-pandemic levels, that we have avoided an economic and financial disaster, that we are going to get out of this crisis in a very different way from the one we got out of the previous financial crisis, because we want a fair recovery. With regard to the General Council of the Judiciary - that question was not raised for me - do not hide, do not hide, fulfil their constitutional responsibility if they really pretend to be a party of government. They help to renew the constitutional institutions, which is what our country needs from you. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPUTY VOICE OF THE SPINOSIS OF THE SIMON MONTERS, OF THE VOICE OF THE PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, AND MINISTER OF ECONOMIC AFFAIRS AND DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION: WHAT OPINION DOES YOU DESERVE THAT REPRESENTATIVES OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA HAVE DemonstratED PUBLICLY THAT THEY ARE DEEPLY WORRIED THAT SPAIN HAS TAKEN POINTS OF VIEW OUT OF DEMOCRACY? [[File number 180/00670]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u38	Question by Mr Iván Espinosa de los Monteros de Simon, Member of the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u39	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Vice-President, during the last session of control in this House you surrendered to Pedro Sánchez and said that you were the leader who guides them under the principles of responsibility, rigour, respect and sense of the country. Regrettably, we saw in Mr Sánchez yesterday at the Royal Palace or even this morning, when he accused VOX of being behind the storms that his government received yesterday. Look, I'd like nothing more than to think that all those people who were lying down were from VOX, which means we're close to the absolute majority, but that's not true. People abhor them for another reason, Madam Vice President; probably because they do not like to see a president of the government who makes the king wait to shield himself in him; because they do not like to see a government who comes to pay tribute to the flag allied with those who have done everything to end that flag. That's precisely why you're being bullied every day. And in no way do they resemble that rigour and responsibility that you say Mr. Pedro Sánchez has to what he said yesterday and what he has said again this morning. And, by the way, they don't look anything like Pedro Sánchez's perception of the world. Look at what they say about you: I am deeply concerned that Spain takes views that are outside of democracy and the human rights provisions that you would expect to see in a NATO ally. Do you know who said that, Madam Vice President? Because no one said it, Senator Bob Menéndez, the influential chairman of the Senate Foreign Affairs Committee, said. What do you think is worth your appreciation of your government outside of Spain? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u40	Madam First Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u41	Yes, thank you very much. Mr Espinosa de los Monteros, as I have already told you on some other occasion, Spain is one of the most respected and dearest countries in the international arena. We are committed to the development of all peoples, and above all to the protection of our constitutional values and rights, not only at home but also abroad. We have agreed with the countries of the European Union, in the specific case to which you refer we have publicly condemned those restrictions on freedom of expression and freedom of demonstration. The President of the Government has opened a mechanism for dialogue on human rights in the case of Cuba, which is to which you refer. But I am not surprised that you are so concerned about the situation in Cuba or the situation in other countries of the world and are so comfortable in an environment of exaltation of the dictatorship that ruled our country for forty years. [[Applauds]] Why don't you begin, please, to defend the constitutional institutions, starting with this government, and help the coexistence of our country, which is what a party that claims to be responsible for or concerned about human rights should do? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u42	Señor Espinosa de los Monteros.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u43	Madam Vice-President, in the same way that justice has lost a good judge, but politics has won nothing with Mr Marlaska, the economy has been able to lose a good economist, but politics has won nothing with you as Vice-President. When you don't know what to answer, take out Franco's wild card. That is what the Socialist Party always does! [[Applauds]] You've been late for 40 years, catch up, a little refresher, which you're out of fashion. What the Government has done precisely in this week of Hispanicism is worth remembering. This government has tried to evacuate two senior officials of the Evo Morales government who were hiding in the Mexican embassy in Bolivia; it has allowed Delcy Rodríguez - Maduro's second, who had been banned from treading European soil - to land in Spain and meet with a minister of his government; it has shown something more than negligence by allowing the disappearance on Spanish soil of Chávez and Maduro's military counter-intelligence chief, Pollo Carvajal, and we know why - because they are now unveiling and pulling out of the blanket all the illegal financing of their government partner - and has abandoned Cubans to their fate. Madam Vice President, it seems a lie that you do not tell the truth when you are fighting for your freedom on the streets. Madam Vice-President, Spain cannot afford to be the ally of dictators in the world, of dictators today - do not go to the last century -; dictators today, those are those you support. And the Ibero-American project will only come forward when we leave them behind. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u44	Madam First Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u45	Mr Espinosa de los Monteros, first of all, the only one I know that has landed in our country this week has been an evacuation flight of the people who had collaborated with Spain in Afghanistan; an evacuation job, by the way, that has been recognized by the American authorities as exemplary and that has been thanked by President Biden himself directly, recognizing Spain as one of the countries that are contributing most actively to solving the problems that exist in the international arena; a loved partner, a respected partner, as I have already said on numerous occasions. [[applause]] Secondly, I have to tell you that what I felt yesterday was pride, pride for my country, for the values that unite us, for having a society of solidarity and, above all, a society that is respected and loved, and that is not what those people who you consider to have done the right thing in criticizing this government did. I think it is important that we all respect all the institutions, starting with the Government of the nation, the Government of Spain, which has been voted by all the Spaniards and represents the will of this House. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPUTATE OF THE FRENCH BALDE EDMUND, OF THE CITIZEN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE VICE-President OF THE AND MINISTER OF ECONOMIC AFFAIRS AND DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION: DOES THE VICE-President CONSIDER THAT HER ECONOMIC PLANTS HAVE BEEN DISASTERED BY THE GOVERNMENT AT SOME TIME? [[File number 180/00673]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u46	Question by Mr Edmundo Bal Francés, Member of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u47	Mrs Calviño, the hemeroteca tells us about the intervention of rental prices: the cities that have done so are not very successful, regulating rental prices is not a balm of Fierabrás; on the rise of the interprofessional minimum wage: the important thing is to focus on getting young people into the labour market; on labour reform: there is an element of slogan that I respect, but I am in substance. Madam Minister, apart from respecting the slogans, these statements could have been made by me, but you have made them. And as the Vice-President of the Government, do you not really consider that your economic approaches are being questioned by your own Government in the last decisions you have taken?
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u48	Madam First Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u49	Mr Bal, for three and a half years, since June 2018, the President of the Government has entrusted me with the task of coordinating and directing the economic policy of the Government. That's what I've been doing since then, that's what I've been doing in response to the pandemic, I've been doing that to get the €140 billion to boost recovery and that's what I keep doing every day to drive a recovery that's strong and also fair. You cite an interested party in the hemeroteca, and not the general vision I have been defending since then and a coherent economic policy focused on fiscal responsibility, structural reforms looking to the future and social justice. These are the principles that guide us and guide each of the proposals and actions that we are developing from the Government. But, Mr. Bal, I keep the message that you could subscribe to this speech. Then, help us, and novaya on that path to the past, on that path nowhere to which the parties that surround you in Congress drag you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u50	Mr. Bal.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u51	Mrs. Calviño, the person you have to convince is the person who's sitting on your left, not me. In Citizens we are very concerned about the economic drift that our nation is taking and that the Government is carrying out, because, above all, it is leaving young people in the gutter. No young people in this country already believe in the policy of this Government. But what happens is that the best and greatest criticism of the government's economic policy does it yourself, which is the economic vice-president. Of course, the intervention of rental market prices is a failed measure in all the cities where it has been implemented. Why, then, does the Government adopt this populist measure? Of course, the rise in the interprofessional minimum wage does not ensure decent, quality and not precarious employment for our young people. So why do they raise the interprofessional minimum wage, without the consensus of the social partners and without seeing the impact it can have on the productivity of companies? Of course, labour reform is a slogan, but are you going to sign the repeal of labour reform? Do you really have respect for this slogan? Mrs. Calviño, your fights with Yolanda Díaz do not matter to the Spaniards, that you put the medal one or the other does not matter. What is important is that this Government will, with its satisfaction, impose demagogic and irresponsible policies, rather than focused policies. And this is the first delivery of the budgets. In the second delivery, what are you going to give Esquerra and Bildu? You were the European Commission's budget director: be brave and say that the policy to be applied in our country is that of Draghi, because if you lose more battles, the Spanish are losing battles. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u52	Madam First Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u53	Mr Bal, two comments in response to your question. Firstly, I have made a public statement in favour of raising the inter-professional minimum wage. The good development of the labour market now enables us to address this moderate rise, and I think it is a good step from the point of view of a fair recovery. I have supported a comprehensive housing policy in favour of the social housing park and allowing access to housing under adequate conditions, especially for young people. And the housing law that will come to this Parliament is a balanced law, which, along with the rest of the measures in our housing policy, will help in this access to housing for the most disadvantaged and especially young people. The general state budgets for next year, which come to Parliament this week, are absolutely focused on young people. We talk about record scholarships, quality employment opportunities, access to housing, higher education. We are talking about all those aspects that concern them, so, I insist, Your Honor: be useful, contribute constructively to defining a better future for our country and do not let themselves be dragged into the extremist drift, the destructive drift of PP and VOX. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPUTATE GARCIA EGEA THEOTOR, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHICH FORMS THE SECOND AND MINISTER OF WORK AND SOCIAL ECONOMY TO THE SECOND SECOND MINISTER OF THE SECOND MINISTER OF WORK AND SOCIAL ECONOMY: DOES THE SECOND MINISTER CONSIDER THAT THE GOVERNMENTS' INTERVENTION IN THE MARKETS BENEFITS THE MOST DEVELOPED? [[File number 180/00666]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u54	Questions to the second Vice-President of the Government and Minister for Labour and Social Economy. Question by Mr Teodoro García Egea, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u55	Thank you, Madam President. The president just made a Sanchez, left to not answer: to get on the line of greeting with the kings to go yesterday through the back door and this morning again. Madam Vice-President, you, who walk with Pedro Sánchez, who has an influence on him, are you going to pick up Pablo Casado's extended hand to your Government to renew the constitutional bodies as you move forward in the depoliticization of the Council? You have made history, the government has made history: you have created the two Spains, that of those who can pay the bill for the light and that of those who cannot. They have also managed to generate a great consensus, they have agreed to the whole world, to the confederation of entrepreneurs of Valencia, to that of Andalusia, to Pimec, to Asaja; all agree: the government is responsible for having generated a problem having the bill of the most expensive light. The facts and data are indisputable. A month ago the PSOE government and Podemos said they were going to intervene in the market to lower the bill for light and today electricity is more than twice as much as it was when you made decisions. What would you call this? A few days ago you decided not to come to Parliament and pass the question on energy to Vice-President Teresa Ribera. However, the bill for the light is your business, Minister. You know why? Because you're the Minister of Employment and the high energy bill prices are putting a lot of people out of work. The industry is beginning to stop its activity, from Basauri to Palos de la Frontera; there are many people who are going to lose their jobs as a result of high energy prices. Do you therefore consider that your Government's intervention is helping the most vulnerable? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u56	Madam Second Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u57	Your Honor, I consider this to be the case, as provided for in Articles 47, 128 and 131 of the Spanish Constitution, which are in force. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u58	Mr. García Aegean.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u59	They say in my village, Mrs. Díaz, that everything is stuck together: neither you nor the president responds. People change, and we've seen how you've evolved. When I was a Galician MP, we had data that you considered to be denouncing and unsustainable. Look at what you said when you were a Member: 'There are data that are deeply worrying, for example from 2001 to 2012 the price of the bill of light, not by the grace of God - you said - but thanks to the legislation made for electricity companies, increased by 105 % nothing more and nothing less', close quotes. Now, when it has grown more than 200 % in eleven weeks, has it been by the grace of Yolanda Díaz? Are you just as worried or do you see things differently from the vice president's seat? They wanted to reach out to the rich and ended up paying the most needy. Because of their fault, today the most vulnerable pay for light 41% more expensive than those living in luxury urbanizations. The only plugs that work are those of his Government, putting a convicted woman and two defendants in the Government. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u60	Madam Second Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u61	Mrs. García Eggea, you do not pass through the Spanish Constitution much, and I will remind you of what some of your precepts say. You speak of housing and energy, and indeed Article 47 refers to access to housing, but you say something very important that the People's Party seems to be unaware of: it expressly prohibits speculation in such a sensitive matter as this. Mr García Aegean, I will give you two facts about the problems you raise. With regard to the first of these, I do not know whether I know that only 2.5% of the total housing stock in our country is public, exactly four times less than the European average or twelve times less than the average in a country like Holland. By the way, from coming to the government in 2012 to 2017, you cut the public budget for housing by 55%. [[Applauds]] The second fact I'm going to give you has to do with energy. 62% of energy production in the European Union as a whole corresponds to companies with public participation. The main energy companies in three countries such as France, Austria and Sweden are publicly owned. By the way, public, as was Endesa in our country until you arrived. [[Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u62	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u63	Today it is in the hands of a company called In El, which is indeed public, but decides the Italian state. [[Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u64	Mrs. Riolobos, silence, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u65	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, come back to reality. The Government of Spain is doing the same thing as advanced democracies, which is defending the common good, in the face of its model of destruction of the welfare state. It is not a question of intervening or not, Mr García Aegean - that is your question - but of governing for whom. And the Government of Spain will continue to govern to defend them social majority. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEVELOPED Mrs Macarena OLONA CHOCLAN, OF THE PARLIAMENTARY GROUP VOX, WHO FORMULATES THE SECOND AND MINISTER OF WORK AND SOCIAL ECONOMY TO THE SECOND AND MINISTER OF WORK AND SOCIAL ECONOMY: DOES SHE COMPLETE THEIR OBLIGATIONS AS THE MINISTER OF WORK AND SOCIAL ECONOMY? [[File number 180/00671]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u66	Question by Mrs Macarena Olona Choclán, Member of the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u67	With all due respect, Madam President. Minister, good morning. Last week, with an ongoing criminal trial involving a member of your party, I asked her whether the Minister of Labour understood social dialogue by kicking; a pertinent question considering that you yourself were accused in 2019 of assaulting the authority. Do you remember those times, when you pretended to defend Alcoa's workers, those same workers you abandoned as soon as you stepped on the carpet? You, communist minister, as usual, kept an eloquent silence and refused to answer. Well, minister, today at this review session we already have a final conviction of the Supreme Court, so the specific question I want to ask you is: Where is the delinquent deputy? Minister, where is your party's delinquent deputy? Today Mr. Alberto Rodríguez, a criminal deputy who stains this House with his presence, has not come because you and your party have decided that despite the conviction he will hold onto his seat and that today he has not been able to come face to face with the Spanish, because it seems that he is only brave when he kicks our National Police Corps agents covered by his hordes of street terrorists. Tell us, communist minister, are you going to pull out of this chamber the delinquent deputy of Podemos, a cop kicker, or are you going to force VOX to bail him out? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u68	Mrs Olona, I have to ask you, please, to address the members of this House with all due respect and decorum that the whole House requires. [[Applause.- Rumours.- Some Members: Delinquent! Criminal!]] Ladies and gentlemen, quiet, please. Madam Second Vice-President of the Government. [[The Rumors Continue]] Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to remain silent so that we can continue with the monitoring session, please. Mr. Sánchez del Real and Mr. Guijarro, silence, please. Madam Second Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u69	Thank you, Madam President. Your Honor, I told you the other day that there was an abyss between you and me. I will read the question you have asked me, which literally says: Do you fulfill your duties as Minister of Labour and Social Economy? Mrs Olona, despite the distances between you and me, I believe that both you, the leader of the opposition, and I, the Vice-President of the Government of Spain, must fulfil our obligations and respect this House. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u70	Mrs. Olona.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u71	With all due respect, Madam President. I hope you did not feel offended, Communist minister, because it is not this Member who calls her partner a criminal, but the Supreme Court. That is true, Minister, and you have again stopped answering the specific question that I asked you, because it is clear that you do not fulfil your obligations as Minister of Labour either when you are in your office or in this House, and I will give you a given. As Minister of Labour, you lead youth unemployment in the European Union with an unemployment rate of 40%. And what do you offer as hope to our young people? A cultural card, a cultural bonus of 400 euros for those who turn eighteen in 2022, taking away the future and dignity by comparing them with bribes. And I'm going to give you another piece of information. As Minister of Labour, it keeps the offices of SEPE, the former INEM, which depend on you closed to the public, forcing our people in Spain to go to phones that are always disconnected or to a website that is always blocked. As Minister of Labour, you who are taking care of, and very much, are the trade unions of brothels and shellfish, who are watering with millions of public euros to keep them quiet and not on fire in the streets when you rule. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u72	Madam Second Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u73	Your Honor, you will never find me in a tone similar to what you use, because I respect my country and this House. [[Applauds]] The Ministry of Labour and Social Economy in less than two years has published twenty-four royal decree-laws, five rules with law rank, sixteen royal decrees, twenty-eight ministerial orders, while ratifying several international conventions that have been pending since the 1990s in our country. We have deployed the greatest social protection mechanism in history, the ERTE, which you did not accompany, as well as the Riders Act, the real decrees law on distance work, pay transparency and equality plans in companies and we have repealed article 52 (d) of the Statute, which you and your party liked so much, which allowed workers to be fired when they were ill. Your Honor, I understand that you may discuss or disagree on the measures of this government, but what I do not think is fair is that you tell us that we are not working. Believe me, I have huge flaws, but that one doesn't. And, above all, believe me that, for the sake of the country, your group should recognize the thousands and thousands of workers of the Ministry of Labour and Social Economy, that every day they are leaving their lives for this country. I would like to thank the workers of SEPE and the labour inspectorate of all the public bodies of the Spanish Government as a whole. Bring something to your country, Your Honor, and stop doing what you have done again today in this House. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPUTATE DON JUAN DIEGO REQUENA RUIZ, IN SUPPORT OF DON JOSÉ ALBERTO HERRERO BONO, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, FORMULATING THE THIRD AND MINISTER FOR THE ECOLOGICAL TRANSITION AND DEMOGRAPHIC CHALLENGE: WHO IS RESPONSIBLE FOR THE ENERGY POLICY OF THIS GOVERNMENT? [[File number 180/00667]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u74	Question addressed to the third Vice-President of the Government and Minister for the Ecological Transition and the Demographic Challenge. Question by Mr Juan Diego Requena Ruiz, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u75	Madam Vice-President, when problems arise you hide, when you have to go and solve them you do not call it: you are the paradigm of incompetence. On December 17, 2020, I asked you what the President of the Government had gone to Algeria and you shrugged your shoulders. On January 26, 2021, we told you that you will anticipate the storage and purchase of gas and you despised it. On 21 July 2021 I warned you that the price of light would rise above 200 euros and last 7 October it rose to 220 euros, and you gave it the same. Mrs Rivera, you are not only blinded by your pride, your insufficiency now has consequences, and the first is that you are removed from your competences. It is the adviser of the CNMC, Mariano Bacigalupo, who comes out in his defense and takes us for fools to the Spaniards saying that we do not know or look at the bill of light. By the way, I already told him it was incompatible; now, it's simply embarrassing. Secondly, the Foreign Minister vetoes you in Algeria and does not allow you to go to the meeting with the Algerian Energy Minister. Thirdly, Vice-President II decides to intervene in the electricity market and you become late. The position that they are leaving her in the Government is that of irrelevant. On the basis of this, the question asked by all Spaniards is why they do not stop it if their work is being done by others, or, better still, why they do not resign if they are unable to solve the main problem for the competitiveness of SMEs and self-employed people and the economy of families, arising from the price of light. Madam Vice President, who are you going to blame today for your own calamity? Answer us by blaming someone and we will at least know who is responsible for this government's energy policy. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u76	Madam Third Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u77	Thank you, President. Thank you, Your Honor, for your question. The person responsible for the Government's energy policy is clearly stated in the Government's Basic Structure Decree. What is happening is that perhaps you still do not know that energy is a systemic element for the economy as a whole, for industry, for external trade, for vocational training and employment, as some of your colleagues have rightly pointed out with such an impertinent tone as yours. It is therefore important to coordinate government action. And it is true that, with partner countries with which we have a privileged relationship for neighbourhood and complementary interests, it is important that not only the sectoral approach - by the way, accompanied by the Secretariat of State for Energy, since I could not come because I had a Council of Ministers on the same day - can be represented by the head of Spanish diplomacy, which happens very often and in many countries. The main difference between the evolution of the electricity price when you ruled and when we ruled is that there is something called volatility in the international commodity markets that has negatively affected the electricity price of all countries - by the way, today ten euros more expensive in France and eight euros more expensive in Germany than in Spain and Portugal - while with you that rise was only as a result of the regulation that you push from the government. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u78	Mr. Requena.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u79	Mrs Ribera, I am responsible to you that olive groves and regents on the rise are receiving letters with a prohibitive rise of light. I hold you responsible for ERTE to the steel industry in northern Spain for raising the light by 500 %. I hold you responsible for the layoffs in the chemical and manufacturing industry. I hold you responsible for a vulnerable family living in the anguish of having to allocate 15% of their income to pay for the receipt of light. I hold you responsible for emptying the swamps. And it held you responsible for the sale and privatization of Endesa at a balance price to an industry based in Rome. [[Applauds]] And if the responsibility to you is because it's guilty. And if today comes back with your usual arrogance to despise everyone and not take any responsibility, I simply tell you that the job comes to you great, that it is too much for you, and I ask you today to resign. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u80	Madam Third Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u81	Thank you very much, President. The truth is that no one from this government who has not received at least twenty or twenty-five requests for resignation deserves to be a minister of this government, so you can follow, which still has a few left: you have asked me only five or ten. [[Applauds]] Your Honor, this government is acting collegially in the face of a crisis of important dimensions for the world economy, the European economy, industry and consumers. We have come out protecting consumers and we will continue to do so. We will continue to strengthen the ability to offer stable prices to an industry that had a low level of coverage in something that is absolutely critical for its raw materials and its fixed costs, such as the price of electricity. We are on it and we will continue to do so. We work from the point of view of responsibilities for consumption, taxation, infrastructure and urban agenda. We have an open framework for dialogue with energy companies as well as with industrial companies, the new... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u82	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President. - OF THE DEPUTY DON CARLOS ROJAS GARCIA, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF JUSTICE: WHAT ORDER HAVE YOU GOVERNED TO THE GENERAL LAWY OF THE STATE IN RELATION TO THE GHALI-LAYA CASE? [[File number 180/00668]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u83	Question addressed to the Minister for Justice. Question by Mr Carlos Rojas García, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u84	With all due respect, Madam President. Madam Minister, there has never been such a request for resignation because there has never been as much incompetence as in this government. [[Applauds]] His Government had organized the entry into Spain of a fugitive from justice with false passports and identities; non-different, false. Mr Ghali was not subject to any border control measures because the Government simply wanted to conceal its identity. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a very clear political responsibility here for Mr Sánchez, who said that in this case what had to be done was done and that now in the legal sphere he has put the State Advocate to defend the Government, which does not seem to be the same as defending legality in this case. You, Your Honor, as Minister of Justice, agree that the Government will use the State's Advocate to curb judicial investigations in this case and in others to maintain its political pacts with separatists, because it is shameful, Your Honor, that you have not resorted to the autonomous decree which serves to give an alibi and to endorse the separatists convicted by the Court of Auditors for their accounting responsibility. Of course, the People's Party has done so in defence of Spain's interest. Your Honor, as far as the Ghali case is concerned, the State Attorney's Office has twice called for the proceedings to be closed - I insist twice - and is now asking for a bail of 150,000 euros for the popular prosecution, to remove it from the proceedings. The investigators in this case, also public servants, are outraged, Minister, at the amount of evidence leading to a criminal charge. I ask you: Have you, as Minister of Justice, given that guideline to request the filing of proceedings in the Ghali case? Did you do it to protect Mr. Equis? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u85	Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u86	Thank you, Madam President. Your Honor, this minister and this government have given no order to the state's attorney. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u87	Mr. Rojas.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u88	Madam Minister, then you too are responsible for everything that is happening, because genuine trophies are being committed. It is shameful that there is a pact with which they want to break Spain and that the State Advocate looks elsewhere. And in Mr Ghali's case it is truly shameful that the State Advocate, with the Government's approval, with the Government's cooperation or with the Government's request - because his word is not credible, Your Honor - is asking for the proceedings to be closed. And at the same time, the state attorney is saying that the mails of the head of the foreign minister's cabinet have been erased, and that is, instead of looking for them and making them available to the justice system. Your Honor, you have to respect the institutions. Spain is a democratic state of law, there is separation of powers and the government is the first to know... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u89	Thank you, Mr. Rojas. Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u90	Your Honor, this government acts and has always acted in accordance with the law, and it does so in accordance with the interests of Spain, the Spanish and the Spanish. And that is what is expected of an opposition party, which acts in accordance with the interests of the Spanish, with the interests of Spain, and not against the interests of Spain. The Law of the State is governed by the search for legality, the general interest, with scrupulous respect for the principle of legality, within the framework of the functions entrusted to it. No instructions, no instructions, no orders; nothing, Your Honor, nothing. You may be surprised by that, because it is surely not clear that the first thing to take into account when acting to defend Spain's interests is the principle of legality. You, Your Honor, come from a political culture in which comrades of your party are authors of sentences that we remember with amazement: we will control the Supreme Court through the back door; this the Prosecutor's Office fine-tunes you. The truth is that I am glad that you have made an amendment this morning saying that justice needs to be depoliticised. You must do so, because you have complied with the Constitution, you have adopted an ethical code in this House, you are bound by ethics and you must proceed to the renewal of the governing body of judges in accordance with this ethics and in accordance with the Constitution and the law that we have in force. Precisely, his party was evicted from the government, Your Honor, by these things, because the majority of citizens were already very tired, exhausted, fed up with their entanglements. His party's own secretary general recently said: 'What destroyed the PP of Madrid was corruption'. And, of course, as for you Madrid is Spain, after that corruption came the condemnation for the Gürtel case. [[Applauds]] I just want to finish, ladies and gentlemen, with a thought. [[Rumors and Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u91	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u92	It's not that you accuse this government of giving orders to the lawyer. The background to your question is that there are senior officials... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u93	Thank you very much, Minister. - QUESTION OF THE DEPUTY GABRIEL RUFIAN ROMERO, OF THE REPUBLICAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF DEFENCE: WHAT VALUATION DOES THE MINISTER OF DEFENCE OF THE ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT OF HER MINISTRY DOES THE MINISTER OF DEFENCE DO? [[File number 180/00662]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u94	Question addressed to the Minister of Defence. Question by Mr Gabriel Rufián Romero of the Republican Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u95	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning, Mrs. Robles, Minister. What assessment does he make of the economic management of his ministry? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u96	Madam Minister of Defense.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u97	In my ministry, what is being done is to implement the General State Budgets approved in this Congress by the Ministry of Defence as effectively as possible. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u98	Mr. Rufián.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u99	Thank you very much, Madam President. Madam Minister, Mrs Robles, how do I tell you? He's lying, he's lying. It's nothing personal, because others and others have lied before you. Cospedal lied, Morenes lied, the eighteen previous ministers and defence ministers lied, because the opacity around what is actually spent in this country in militarism - in short, in Defense - is terrible. In fact, we have to go to international experts to know, for example, that you spend about EUR 19 billion annually on weapons - and it is growing - that you spent 300 million on a submarine and that you spent 488 million on hunting, now, with which you are falling. But, Mrs. Robles, this really isn't what I'm asking you. I have a concern and there's something I've been intrigued about for months. We here, together with other parliamentary groups, have tabled seventeen requests from committees of inquiry into the corruptions of the Royal House and you have said seventeen times that you have not. You have a republican base and history, even your youth have again managed to have this issue debated at the national congress. Then why? Why do they constantly vote against this, even by straining their pact with their government partners? The question is very simple and very direct, Mrs Robles, and I'll do it here to see if you explain it, because if you don't, you're not going to give it. Is it true that you have given for years 30,000 euros in funds reserved for the Royal House and therefore systematically vote against any commission of inquiry around the corruptions of the Royal House? Eye! for silence will be regarded as a yes. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u100	Madam Minister of Defense.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u101	Thank you, Your Honor. I'm sorry that you missed the opportunity in your intervention to value the work of the men and women of the Armed Forces; those who, while you're thinking of the catchphrase and looking in the mirror, are saving the lives of many people; yesterday bringing people from Afghanistan, today in La Palma. [[applause]] They're in Lebanon, they've been on the Balmis mission and helping seniors, while some were rather thinking about the catchphrase. You have prejudices from the past. I want to say with great pride that everything that is invested in defense is good for the Armed Forces, is good for Spain and is good for creating jobs. And I'll tell you something else. You're young - that happens over time - and maybe, like everyone else, you have some defect. I have a virtue, which is humility. [[Rumors]] I'll tell you to study a little and read the press a little. If you read the press twenty-five years ago you will know what I did at the time, and you will know it for real; there are people in this House who know it. Go to the hemerotheques, read books. Read, for example, the book In the Labyrinth by Fernando López Agudín and you will know what I did in many subjects, included in the control of the reserved funds. What I want to tell you is to think less about the phrase and study more of the past of our history. I will tell you something else from the humility I have, but also from my beginnings: the ethical behaviors I had twenty-five years ago perhaps you would have to copy them. [[Applauds]] - OF THE MINISTER OF THE INTERIOR: WHY IS THE MINISTER OF THE INTERIOR COVERING INFORMATION TO THE SPANISH? [[File number 180/00672]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u102	Question to the Minister for the Interior. Question by Mr Ignacio Gil Lázaro from the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u103	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, why are you hiding information from the Spaniards?
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u104	Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u105	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you, Mr. Gil Lazarus. This Government and this Ministry of the Interior do not conceal any kind of information, unlike other Governments of which you were a spokesman in this House. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u106	Mr. Gil Lazarus.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u107	Thank you very much, Madam President. Yes, Minister, you hide information from the Spaniards. For example, he hid that he intended to liquidate the policy of dispersal of older prisoners; he hid that he had ordered to spy on the activity of the Spanish in social networks during the confinement; he hid that it was the private escorts of Pablo Iglesias who directed the attack on VOX in Vallecas; he hid that the alleged homophobic attack in Malasaña was not such and, despite this, you continued to insist and try to incriminate VOX. It is systematically concealing the real extent of illegal immigration figures and their impact on the deterioration of citizen security, especially in the humbler neighbourhoods, and their impact on the commission of particularly repugnant crimes, such as those that attack women's life, integrity and sexual freedom. His last episode has been to try to put under the carpet the jihadist character of the attack carried out in TorrePacheco, a purpose that has been frustrated by the rapid and forceful investigation of the Civil Guard. That is why, Minister, your conduct is a danger to the security of the Spaniards, because you are trying to manipulate reality to accommodate the interests of your party discourse. That is why, Minister, hundreds of Spaniards spontaneously, without being summoned by anyone, beat you last week in Cordoba, as they did yesterday with Sánchez. They just have to fight them! They are Spanish fed up with the prepotence and sectarianism of this government, Spaniards who know that they only have VOX left to prevent Sánchez and his alliance with communists, bildutaras and couptistas from finally liquidated Spain. VOX will not allow it, without fear of anything or anyone, to the exclusive service of Spain, connoisseurs of our duty with living Spain and saying proudly: Spain always. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u108	Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u109	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you, Mr. Gil Lazarus. It is really difficult to find a different and different thread in your interventions. You come here every Wednesday to drive away your particular demons and repeat a retahíla of falsehoods. Perhaps what really bothers you is that at this time there is a progressive coalition government and a Ministry of the Interior which, unlike the Ministries of the Interior of other governments, is obviously making a progressive management of security. [[Laughter]] Maybe it's just that you guys are upset. It is a government that is investing - because it does not use the term spent - in personal and material means and that is providing the State Security Forces and Bodies - those that you want to patriminate - with the necessary means to ensure the security of all. You continue to use the institutions. Today it refers to the boocheos in Córdoba and yesterday's boocheos. As other members of the Government have previously said, the will to respect all institutions and political parties must be maintained: the Government, Parliament and the judiciary. You do the opposite. I think the Armed Forces would have wanted one more act yesterday thinking about the Armed Forces. The other day the Civil Guard would have wanted one more act thinking of the Civil Guard. Do it, think about it, I'm really asking you. On different and concrete facts, you are now violating another division of powers: independence and judicial action. On facts with a complexity that I am not going to deal with now, I already draw conclusions that do not exist today, trying to generate storms and winds, because that is where only you move well. In plain, serene, firm dialogue and seeking the best for this country, you have nothing to offer. That is the problem of this society: that you offer nothing. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPARTMENTAL ANA MARIA ZURITA EXPOSIT, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, IN RESTITUTION OF THE DEPARTMENTAL DONÉS LORITE, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHICH FORMS THE MINISTER OF TRANSPORT, MOBILITY AND URBAN AGENDA: WHEN YOU CHANGED YOUR OPINION ON THE INFICITY OF INTERVENTIONAL MEASURES ON THE LIVING MARKET? [[File number 180/00669]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u110	Questions to the Minister for Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda. Question by Mrs Ana María Zurita, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u111	Thank you, President. Very good morning. Madam Minister, you have us a little bewildered and you have a little bewildered the Spaniards, because in your last and only appearance here in Congress, in committee, you told us that your model was not to prioritize the right to private property, and you said - so happily - that that was the model of the People's Party; and so it is, thank God. I would like to know what your model is, because in your previous life as mayor of Gavà you promoted and promoted a real estate promotion of more than 5000 homes, the largest in all of Barcelona; moreover, you alone, against wind and tide, against your neighbors and ecological groups who considered it a great environmental attack. Also in her résumé as mayor of Gavà she has to have promoted the control of rents under the umbrella of the Catalan Income Control Act that the People's Party resorted to the Constitutional Court; her Government also appealed it, but stopped it because it considered it an aggravation against the independenceists. The housing law was stuck and his predecessor, Mr. Ábalos, never dared to give him the approval. It is a historic law because it is the first in the history of democracy, but also historical because it is an unprecedented attack on private property. And what will you do, Mrs. Sanchez? Will you change your mind? We are intrigued, because you also apply income control as you do to macroprojects against the environment and citizen consensus. Tell us when you change your mind about interventionist measures in the area of housing. I say this in case the Spaniards can have the hope of what the People's Party proposes: legal certainty, liberalising the soil and increasing the supply as a way to lower prices, not by intervening in private property. Minister, one last question. What is more important to you, the price of the Spanish rent or the price of the Sánchez rent in the Moncloa? Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u112	Minister for Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u113	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you very much, Mrs. Zurita. I say that we are not carrying out any interventionist measures and neither this government nor the ministry nor myself are changing our minds. What we are doing is guaranteeing access to housing by citizens and, above all, by those who have less resources. [[Applauds]] We are going to avoid speculation about housing, because, even if you don't know it, most Spaniards and Spaniards have difficulty accessing housing. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u114	Mrs. Zurita.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u115	Madam Minister, we are increasingly convinced that all Mr Sánchez cares about is the price of his rent in Moncloa, nothing more. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u116	Minister for Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u117	Thank you very much, President. Thank you very much again, Mrs Zurita. We also know what is the main concern of the People's Party, what is the main concern of Mr Casado and what is his model to solve this serious problem of the right to housing: to liberalize the land - you have said - and to have a salary. So simple, because you think that with any salary you can access the housing. Really, but what world do they live in? Who do you relate to? We support the most vulnerable and the young, and we also support, help and give legal certainty to the small owners; yes, to the small owners who rent, who are 85% of the owners who rent in this country. But it seems that you have become unique and exclusively the mouthpieces and defenders of investment funds; of course, not of the young nor - I insist - of the small owners. After the announcements last week, what reaction has there been? How has the investment been withdrawn? What has indeed occurred is a positive assessment. The assessment made by the operators of this rule - which you have already announced you will appeal, but which you do not even know; that is commendable - is positive, because we contribute to providing a stable regulatory framework and uniform rules that give guarantees and legal certainty in the exercise of these activities. That is our model, therefore, of curbing the abusive rise in rental prices, of favouring the most vulnerable and young people. It is missing to know what the model of the People's Party is. The one about the sale of public housing? The one about the price increase? To forget those who do not have a housing solution or to leave young people to their fate? I think it would be good if they listened to the president of the government. He offered a great pact of state for such an important and important issue for all Spaniards, but, after listening, of course, the People's Party is neither expected nor expected. As always. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] - OF THE PILAR CALVO GOMEZ, OF THE PLURAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF TRANSPORT, MOBILITY AND URBAN AGENDA: DOES THE GOVERNMENT THINK TO TRANSFER THE PLENARY SKILLS OF RODALIES TO THE GENERALITY OF CATALUNYA? [[File number 180/00661]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u118	Question by Mrs Pilar Calvo Gómez of the Plural Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u119	Thank you, President. Does the Government intend to transfer the full range of powers to the Generalitat de Catalunya? In 2009, the tripartite agreed with the Government on a transfer without tracks, without chains, without stations, without trains, without staff and without funding. I mean, we were just handed over the schedule management. Since 1975, the State has not extended its network of neighbourhoods in Catalonia for a single kilometer. Rodalies is an indispensable ally against climate change, but above all an instrument to guarantee equal opportunities for citizens who need public transport to access university and educational centres and to go to work; citizens who have been terribly harmed by a strike that has not respected the minimum services. What, by the way, are they planning to do in the face of these breaches that have affected more than 450 000 people? The State is turning its back on the citizens of Catalonia. Every year his millions of rain loses the train. The Renfe closeness plan 2008-2015, which came after a 2007 with forty-five days of unemployment, provided for 4 billion investments. Only 600 million arrived, 15%. The PP promised so many millions that, rather than rain, they seemed to be talking about the rains; the man of time had never been so wrong. You come back and tell us that the drought is over and that you have 63 billion ready to invest until 2030. Are there such long deadlines for non-compliances to catch others in the government? At this point, and in order not to do any more acts of faith, what do you think if you commit yourself to passing on rhaelies and then we talk about the General Budgets of the State with the commitment that the workers of Renfe maintain their rights, salary and possibility of geographical and functional mobility according to the State? Finally, an example of why we ask for the management of rollers. Vic's R3 line to La Garriga had in 1980 five million passengers a year; today it has the same. On the other hand, a similar line, but managed by Ferrocarrils De la Generalitat de Catalunya, that of Martorell, had five million passengers and today it has twenty-four. This is the way we want to go.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u120	Minister for Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u121	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you very much, Mrs. Calvo. As we have already said on other occasions, we are prepared to jointly address the transfer of intra-Community rail services and we will, of course, do so in accordance with the legal and constitutional framework and always within the appropriate forums. You referred to the situation of rolling stock, the service of proximity, and also to the strike that took place last week. Here I will tell you, sincerely, that it does not seem very appropriate that the Government of the Generalitat will take advantage of this moment of strike by drivers to extend the request for transfers. Simply, with a multitude of passengers and passengers affected at stations and trains, that was not the best time. In addition, you claim and highly reproach Renfe's management of the service in close proximity, but you are the first to have problems in managing. What about the T Mobility, which is more than four years late? In addition, another problem was added last week, that of cybersecurity. What is important, Mrs Calvo, is that we solve the problems by thinking of citizens and, above all, of cooperation between administrations. That is why we have in progress - you know it and you have made reference to it - the Rodalies Plan, with an investment of more than 63 billion euros. Only in what we have been implementing in the past year have we already implemented more than 134 million euros and in the last three years we have implemented more than 850 million euros. As regards the completion of the transfer of transfers, it is the Generalitat that manages trains, frequencies and tariffs. With regard to the service of infrastructure, we must say that, since it is an infrastructure that receives and shares another type of traffic - long-distance and also freight - it is impossible to make such a transfer within the existing legal framework. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u122	Mrs. Calvo.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u123	Once again, its millions of rain becomes chirimiri. Please, let's move on to the raffle management. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u124	Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u125	You know - I insist - of the availability of this ministry and of the Government to address this issue in the appropriate forums. [[Applauds]] - OF THE MINISTER OF TRANSPORT, MOBILITY AND URBAN AGENDA: DOES THE MINISTER OF TRANSPORT, MOBILITY AND URBAN AGENDA PRESENT FOR THE MINISTRY OF TRANSPORT, MOBILITY AND URBAN AGENDA ESTABLISH THE CONVENTION FOR THE AID FOR THE FINANCING OF THE HIGH CAPACITY TRANSPORT SYSTEM OF THE CANARY GREAT PALMS? [[File number 180/00660]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u126	Question by Mr Pedro Quevedo Iturbe from the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u127	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, does the Ministry of Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda plan to establish the agreement for aid for the financing of the high-capacity transport system in Las Palmas de Gran Canaria?
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u128	Minister for Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u129	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you very much, Mr Quevedo. Obviously, I am familiar with the urban transit bus system that is driving the City Hall of Las Palmas de Gran Canaria, the well-known MicroGuagua. I would also like to say that it is this type of activity and this type of activity that is committed to electric mobility that, of course, favours the daily use of public transport by the citizen and, in addition, contributes to the sustainability of transport, especially in a city where - as I understand it - the share of the private vehicle exceeds 60%. In fact, we know that the European Investment Bank, the Government of the Canary Islands and the Cabildo will also be involved in financing this project. In this case, it is also the result - as you already know - of an investment agreement with the current Government and, therefore, as we have repeatedly conveyed to it, our will is to be able to sign this agreement as soon as possible. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u130	Mr. Quevedo.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u131	Thank you again, Madam President. Thank you, Minister. The truth is that his words are encouraging, although we didn't expect less, I also have to tell him. You have commented on the problem of the excessive use of private transport and on that action is necessary. Our city already has little capacity for expansion. As you know, in 2013 we decided to reorder the urban public transport network of Las Palmas de Gran Canaria. It was a decision that took the name of Metrio Guagua, as you have very well pointed out now; it is a kind of canarism, but it is perfectly understood in our land. It's nothing other than a high capacity public transport line, exclusive lane and semi-phoric priority. In other words, it clearly becomes an element of sustainable development for adapting to the new times of public mobility in Las Palmas de Gran Canaria. Actually, the project is so broad and so ambitious that it has become a city project, as you probably know. In the budgets of 2017 this Member defended an amendment - which prospered - of 40 million euros for this project in a multiannual way. Subsequent events have probably caused the public company Guaguas Municipales itself not to be overtaken by the need to make an agreement to execute all the quantities. As you know, so far we have received EUR 16 million out of the total of EUR 40. That is why we have sent him a proposal for an agreement between the public company Guaguas Municipales - a hundred per cent public - and his ministry with the aim of substantiating that amount. The proposal we make there is EUR 8 million in three years; 3 for 8, 24, the remaining EUR 24 million. I thank you for the tone of your answer, because it gives me the feeling that you continue with the commitments...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u132	Thank you very much, Mr Quevedo. Minister for Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u133	Thank you again, Madam President. Mr Quevedo, thank you very much. I insist on ratifying the commitment to continue to make progress on the content of the investment agreement that we have entered into with New Canarias; in the case of my department, with regard to the adoption of the law on sustainable mobility, actions on roads and also ensuring air connectivity. I therefore insist that the compromise be ratified. Returning to the concrete case of the Metroagua, I think that a meeting with the Ministry's Secretary of State will be held shortly in order to be able to advance the realization of this agreement that you claim. I insist that there is no problem in terms of commitment, there is no problem in terms of budget allocation; in fact, in the General Budgets of the State we have provided for the corresponding item of EUR 5 million. The problem, as you know, lies in the justification of the amounts that have already been transferred and that have already been paid, and although we know that they are administrative justification issues and that they have occurred, of course, it is something that we have to solve before we continue to move forward. In any case, I insist that we share that goal, that we sit down to resolve administrative issues so that we can sign the convention as soon as possible. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u134	We are now dealing with the appeals addressed to the Government. Urgent inquiry by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, so that the Government can explain how the main variables included in the macroeconomic table have been affected by the latest known data, as well as the measures it intends to take to compensate for their impact on our economy. For your defence, Mrs. Gamarra Ruiz-Clavijo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u135	Thank you, President. Madam First Vice-President, in just two hours the draft General State Budgets for the next financial year 2022 will arrive in Congress, which are the same as those of the year in force: a new stick by the government on the wheels of the recovery of the Spanish economy, because they will be a ballast for job creation and an intolerable mortgage for the future of our companies, our self-employed and our workers. It is true that we are all clear that, to their effect, it is a unique and exclusive handful of taxpayers who have to be at the service of their populist project, not that you as a government have to be at the service of the economic and business fabric of our country. It is up to you - of course it is up to you - to make this budget. And why? Because you constantly insist on reminding us that you are the person responsible for coordination and also for directing economic policy in our country. He says it over and over again. It is true that if we refer to the facts, we are facing a vice-presidency with dwindling skills, and they are almost beginning to be somewhat decorative. The macroeconomic forecast table that you have drawn up at the moment, I think we are all very clear that it is perfectly outdated. And it is overcome by the growing international uncertainty in relation to the inflationist scenario, by the warnings regarding the need to extreme the prudence of fiscal and budgetary policy, by the incompetence, too, of the Government to face and contain the historical escalation of light prices and by the recent corrections, no longer only of the National Institute of Statistics, but those of the International Monetary Fund that we met yesterday. This is nothing new, because with you it already rains over wet. A year ago you already spoke of a 9.8% growth, and being almost in the last quarter we can see that, at best, it will reach half of your forecast. But it continues in a contumate way abstracting itself from reality and leading us to forecasts that you no longer believe. It sets the growth of the Spanish economy for this year at 6.5%, when yesterday the International Monetary Fund ratified it downwards at 5.7% and 7% for 2022, when it has also been rectified. Madam Vice-President, do you continue to maintain these forecasts of a macroeconomic growth framework? Yesterday, the Secretary of State for Economic Affairs spoke of the International Monetary Fund being certified. If the International Monetary Fund certifies, will you certify the macroeconomic framework according to the International Monetary Fund, or according to its forecasts, that no one believes anymore? What is clear, Madam Vice-President, is that at this point you no longer have any kind of ascendant in this government. You confine yourself, alone and exclusively, to fulfilling Mr Sánchez's wishes so that public spending can be consolidated and, therefore, continue to spend in an irresponsible and reckless way, which will take our entire economy ahead. This is not something new, Madam Vice-President, this has already happened. You follow the same method that Rodriguez Zapatero had to square the accounts in the years 2009 and 2010, and it is that in the pact that Mr Sánchez and Vice President Díaz carry out the first thing they will do is agree a public spending to waste. And you have a mission there: the mission is to make this square in relation to a growth rate and a macroeconomic framework that you imagined and will maintain. Madam Vice-President, where is the fiscal consolidation plan demanded by the Bank of Spain in the face of the growing debt and structural deficit that we are already experiencing from this crisis? Making an extraction, this is not the only vice that these budgets have. Let's go to some aspects that are also inadmissible. These budgets include EUR 27 billion. Taking into account the current budget, we are already talking about EUR 50 billion in European funds. How, then, can you recognize without any redundancy that unemployment will continue next year in 14.1% of the working population, that is, above the unemployment rate that we already had in the pre-crisis period? But it is that, in addition, Madam Vice-President, as the International Monetary Fund acknowledged yesterday, this figure does not correspond to a real forecast. It is established that we will be the country of Europe with the most unemployment, and it is not precisely to be proud. This is a direct consequence of its economic policy, an economic policy based on inefficiency. You talk about anticipation and effectiveness, but you are always the last to take action and take those that have the least positive impact on our economy. Clearly we can say that you neither coordinate nor direct anything at all. Do you really believe, Madam Vice-President, that a single job can be created when we have a president of the government who lies without any reticence when investors ask him what he is going to do, for example, with housing policy, labour policy or the policy of our pension system? Obviously, if investors are lied to, it is difficult to invest in our country. Madam Vice-President, while France and Germany are currently at 96.8% of GDP prior to the pandemic, Spain is also in line, in this case with 92.8%. Is that the fair recovery you're talking about, Mrs. Calviño? Is that the strong growth? Is that sustainable growth, always at the back of recovery in relation to the rest of the European countries? Undoubtedly, we are faced with budgets that only continue to accumulate deficits. Between the years 2000, 2001, 2020, 2021 and 2022 you put us 300 billion euros of accumulated deficit. Thus, our economy will hardly be able to recover. On the other hand, you reflect in these public accounts a level of debt that is already above 120 % of GDP. Mrs Calviño, what will happen when the European Central Bank begins to withdraw monetary stimulus? Can you answer this question here today? What do you intend to do about this? Because, yes, that public debt is the one that says that the children and grandchildren of this generation will pay, but, at your own pace, so will the great-grandchildren and great-grandchildren of this generation. Madam Vice-President, since you say that you are coordinating and leading economic policy in our country, can you answer a number of questions that Spanish people are asking today? First of all, if you knew about the budgetary negotiations with your government partners or if you knew that the political price you had to pay to carry out these budgets is to trample on private property, legal certainty and corporate freedom. Is that what you constantly tell the different economic sectors when you meet with them? And, Madam Vice President, do you or do you not support this housing law? Because we've heard and heard a lot about tax incentives, but in the end what you're going to approve are legal rent caps. It would be good if we were to be explained here today if you also agreed that the profits should be seized from companies in the different sectors of our country, because they have started with the electricity sector and continue with the real estate sector, but will they continue to apply that seizure to the rest of the profits of the other sectors? Without a doubt, there are many questions that Spanish people are asking today about the economic policy that you say you are directing and coordinating. That is why it is also important that you answer a question here today, and that is: is labour reform going to be repealed, as the second vice-president of the government claims, yes or no? Do you consider that to be a responsible economic policy? Mrs. Calviño, you began to lose all your authority and all your prestige when you decided to abdicate and follow all of Mr. Sánchez's wishes. You may say that these are only the views of the main opposition party, but I think it is also necessary to take a quick walk through what is already your sad passage through this government. You seek to cover with your triumphalism and propaganda what is a poor management. He wants us to believe that the public deficit is the consequence of the crisis and that the destruction of employment is also the result of the crisis. But no, Mrs Calviño, in 2019 - before the pandemic arrived - there was already the public deficit here with you, and you were busy having to review growth forecasts three times, just as job creation already gave clear signs of exhaustion in that year 2020, before the pandemic arrived, when 244,000 jobs were destroyed in our countries. What have you done all this time? To be late and, moreover, to be bad. We constantly hear him say that everything is transitory and unsignificant. In principle, it was going to be the pandemic and, of course, it was not. But you say exactly the same thing when we talk about energy prices or inflation, and it will certainly not be transitory or insignificant. Mrs Calviño, if for something you are characterized by not following the example of other European economies, we are seeing how they are at the forefront of recovery. When Italy or Germany took action quickly and approved packages involving direct aid and tax cuts, what did you do?What did you do in that summer of 2020 when Europe and the European economies were looking for ways to recover and encourage their economies? You were on vacation telling the Spaniards that we had beaten the virus. And, yes, what you were preparing for all the domestic economies and the economic and business fabric was the rise in taxes; a dozen taxes are what you have risen. Mrs. Calviño, what happens when you don't run out of credit lines that you set in motion? For what happens is that there is no trust, you don't trust the self-employed or the SMEs, you don't trust the entrepreneurs, you see how legal insecurity is what lies in that economy. And you know perfectly well that when legal uncertainty comes in through the door, the investment comes out through the window. On the other hand, Mrs Calviño, in this regard you adopted quite late those measures of direct support to our economy with that 7 billion. It was late. It is not a matter of deadlines, because while other countries are implementing them in March 2020, it took you one more year to implement them. We warned him. You talk a lot about dialogue and shoulder hoisting, but when we make proposals you absolutely reject them all. The last flagrant case in which they are shown to be incompetent has to do with European funds. You will hardly be able to implement what your budget of EUR 27 633 million says in the next financial year. Why? Because he has been unable to execute the 24,000 of this exercise. It has barely committed 16% and executed 5%. In addition, Madam Vice-President, you are the worst example in what is the budget execution of European funds. Why? Because of the more than 3.6 billion euros...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u136	Mrs. Gamarra, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u137	I'm finishing up, Madam President. Because of the more than €3.6 billion it reflects from European funds in its ministry, it has barely executed 210. Obviously, we are faced with budgets that yes, they have more expenditure, they have more debt, they have more deficit and they have more taxes, but what they do not have is the effectiveness that is needed to create jobs and to recover our economy.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u138	Thank you very much, Mrs. Gamarra.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u139	I hope you will answer these questions out of respect for this House. Thank you very much, President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u140	Thank you very much. I now give the floor, on behalf of the Government, to the First Vice-President and Minister for Economic Affairs and Digital Transformation.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u141	Thank you very much, President. Good morning. Mrs Gamarra, I thank you for your inquiry and I appreciate the opportunity you have given me to share with this plenary session of Congress some elements that explain the evolution of our economy. Faced with the succession of unfounded statements that you have made, I will try to structure the presentation on three topics: the macroeconomic situation, the fiscal situation and, speaking of the budgets for next year, the prospects for the future. In recent weeks, numerous indicators have been published confirming that recovery is going from less to more and that it will accelerate in 2022. Just yesterday, the International Monetary Fund published its growth forecasts; it increased its growth forecast by 6 tenths by 2022 in Spain and placed Spain at the head of growth, both in the euro area and in the European Union. In other words, the International Monetary Fund certifies the Government's vision of accelerating recovery in this second part of the year and in 2022. International agencies agree with the Government and confirm that recovery will be even more intense in the coming year and that Spain will be one of the drivers of growth in the European Union and globally. And it is that all the indicators are very clear with regard to this recovery and, above all, they are clear with regard to the fact that this recovery is very different from that of the previous financial crisis. In terms of GDP growth - as you know very well - the previous financial crisis took ten years to recover, while today the forecast is that we will recover the level of pre-pandemic daily activity before the end of this year. And the expected recovery for employment is even faster. None of the indicators that we will highlight later are more relevant, more indicative, more important for citizens than the extraordinary evolution of employment. On Monday last week the excellent data of unemployment and affiliations were announced during the month of September. Obviously, our goal must be to reduce unemployment as quickly as possible. Obviously, every unemployment situation is a personal and family drama, and that has to be our priority, but we cannot hide that the fall in unemployment has been the greatest in history this month; it triples that of September 2020 and makes the level of unemployment below 2017. Since February of this year, which was the height of the third wave of the pandemic, in net membership of ERTE, that is, in effective membership, 1,355,000 jobs have been created, which are figures that we had not experienced at any time in our history. As I was able to point out to you this morning during the questions, membership in Social Security is already above the pre-pandemic number; youth unemployment, below the pre-pandemic figures, and ERTE workers are in the range of at least 200,000 people since the beginning of the pandemic. The positive evolution of employment is absolutely key, because it is an indicator that recovery is already reaching the street, it is already reaching where citizens, jobs and wages are most important. In addition, the good development of the labour market also corresponds to the recovery of consumption. All indicators published in consumer confidence data have reached their best level since the summer of 2019 in September; home sales data, which in August reached this month's highest figure since 2008; consumer card spending, which is one of the most frequently used high-frequency indicators. All these indicators show the recovery of consumption and, in addition, the productive tissue is being favored by the recovery of investment. Perhaps - I have pointed out repeatedly - it is the most important differential factor in this recovery from previous crises and, in particular, the previous financial crisis. The dynamism of investment is, together with consumption and rapid recovery of employment, the driving force behind this rapid recovery. In the last financial crisis, the fall in investment was much more intense and, in addition, it took almost six years to recover. This is an absolutely key factor in achieving more sustained growth over time, a stronger and lasting recovery. This recovery of investment corresponds to the strength of our business fabric. If we see the data on the creation of commercial companies during the month of August, the acceleration that is being recorded, the invoicing data, the economic sentiment indicators, the data on the consumption of cement, all the data, all the indicators confirm the also incipient recovery of the investment, which - as I said - is a key factor for this recovery to be very different from the previous financial crisis. Finally, we have seen data on the evolution of tourism - data on overnight stays, etc. - which also reflect the greatest intensity in the recovery of tourism in recent months. Since the end of the second quarter we are seeing this acceleration and higher levels are being achieved than in 2019 in the case of resident tourism. Tourism developments are key to developments in the external sector. What we see is that exports of goods and services are growing by 3.8% quarterly, a significant increase over the previous year. And all this leads us to predict, like the rest of the international bodies, that the external sector will continue to contribute positively to GDP both in 2021 and 2022, which underlines the more balanced nature of Spanish growth at this time in relation to other expansive phases of the past. In short, the evolution of all economic indicators, with employment at the head, confirms that our forecasts for the end of 2021 and 2022 are prudent. Your Honor, in the face of the catastrophe of the People's Party, data and facts from the government. Faced with its destructive attitude, which is absolutely anchored in it not, what I offer here is the responsible work of the Government in defense of the general interest. That is what we have been doing for over three and a half years and that is what we are going to continue to do in the coming months, following a series of measures and policies that we have been putting in place and which, in the end - I have said this morning, Your Honor - have prevented a fall in GDP of more than 25%, the destruction of three million jobs and a global financial crisis. Indeed, economic policy measures which have been promoted by the Government, which are endorsed by the European Union and which have been validated by this Parliament, Your Honor, unfortunately without its support on most occasions. Unfortunately, I say, because it is the economic policy that our country has needed to respond to the pandemic and that we need to have an intense economic recovery. I think it would be good, Your Honor, for your party to abandon those absolutely destructive messages. It sometimes gives the impression that they confuse their wishes with reality, such as the irresponsible words of the leader of their party this weekend, with a full smile, under an absolutely catastrophic and dystopic headline that is not supported by any data and that, as the President of the Government has pointed out today, does not attack our Government, but attacks Spain and attacks the interests of the Spanish. I turn briefly to the tax aspects to which you have been referring in your inquiry. Like the Government's forecasts are marked by prudence, responsibility marks the Government's fiscal policy. The pandemic caused an unprecedented crisis in times of peace in our country, at European and global level. The truth, Your Honor, is that it is somewhat surprising that you intend to ignore the impact of the pandemic on the fiscal or economic sphere in our country. Obviously, the fall in income and the increase in expenditure to maintain the productive fabric, the base effect, all of which has led to an increase in public debt over GDP, a growth similar to that seen at the global level. We are on a fiscal consolidation path that predicts that public debt will gradually fall from 120% of current GDP to 115% by 2022, as the deficit is reduced and economic growth is consolidated. And I am surprised, Your Honor, that you speak of the issue of debt when the record of the People's Party is absolutely incomparable during the years of such intense growth. They did not take advantage of the years of intense growth to carry out a responsible fiscal policy that led us to a much lower GDP debt than we were when we arrived at the Government. What we're going to try to do is reduce 5 percentage points of GDP debt in just two years, and we're going to do it without the cuts your party adopted. We have learned the lesson from the previous crisis and we are going to speed up debt reduction compared to what you did when in the next four years of intense growth, before the change of government, you only reduced the debt ratio by 3 percentage points; that is, half of the debt fall that we are going to implement in this government in the years 2021 and 2022 in double time. That is the People's Party's record of fiscal responsibility, and I remember it perfectly because it is the situation with which we find ourselves when we arrive in June 2018. So the path of responsibility is clear; the macroeconomic forecasts of the government are responsible; the more the economy grows in this second part of the year, the more intense the growth will be in the year 2022 and, moreover, the forecasts that we have are extremely prudent within the General Budgets of the State, as the Minister of Finance has already explained and will again explain here in the Chamber, for example, with regard to the forecast of tax revenues, which is 8.1%, compared to a nominal growth of GDP of 8.6%. And despite the good outcome in 2021, it is a forecast of revenue and are prudent and responsible budgets. I will conclude, third and last, with a brief reflection - then, in duplicate, I will return to that - on the prospects for the future. Indeed, Your Honor, the General Budgets of the State incorporate a very important volume of public investment, and that is because we trust Spanish society and believe that investing in R & D+i, investing in digitisation, investing in ecological transition, investing in education, investing in health, investing in social cohesion, is a productive investment, is an investment of the future, is the investment we need to have a fair recovery. That is our priority, Your Honor, with these General State Budgets and with the deployment of the Recovery Plan, which is fundamental from the point of view of investments and from the point of view of reforms. Since the first day I have made it clear that the interest of the People's Party and other people and other groups is to try to question the economic policy of our Government, and they have done so whether or not there is a pandemic, whether or not there is strong economic growth, whether or not we are presenting general State budgets in one direction or another, whether or not there is a recovery plan... I think that is why it is very important, in view of its destructive and catastrophic vision, that we offer what we have been doing from the very beginning: a coherent economic policy based on fiscal responsibility, social justice and structural reforms of the future, which, in the face of its catastrophe, we offer data and credibility. I hope that sooner or later, ladies and gentlemen, you will join this car, trust Spain, its citizens and its companies, support the social investment that we are proposing for the future and, ultimately, support the construction of a better future for our country. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u142	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] I give the floor to Mrs. Gamarra Ruiz-Clavijo.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u143	Madam Vice-President, as is customary, you have not answered any of the questions we have asked you, and this is undoubtedly an inquiry for you to give some kind of answer, not only and exclusively for you to release us here fifteen minutes of speech. [[Applauds]] Firstly, will the review of the macroeconomic picture be carried out, yes or no, following the downward review just done to it by the International Monetary Fund? Yes or no? It's easy to answer. The second issue that I think is important is the fiscal consolidation plan, which not only the Bank of Spain is demanding, but also our legislation requires the Government and that you are not exempt from having to apply it. Thirdly, we have also asked him about labour reform. You have committed yourself to Europe to a series of milestones. Are you going to carry out a job reform along the lines proposed by the second vice-president, or are you going to stand firm and ensure that we have a flexible labour market so that we can actually achieve job recovery? There are many more questions you do not answer, but we will be satisfied if you answer these three. [[The Lord]] You tell us that we are catastrophic and you say that you alone and exclusively rely on data and facts. Madam Vice-President, I don't think you're going out because, if you really did, you'd find the facts and the facts. But, since you ask for data and facts, I invite you to read Caritas' latest report, that report which says that since 2018 there are two million more Spaniards in extreme poverty. What this means is that, as long as this inquiry lasts, there will be thirty more poor people in Spain. [[Applauds]] Do you want data and facts? For that is the real economy, that is the recovery that you are talking about, but that does not reach the street, and that is the future that we do not want for this country. This is not catastrophism, this is the harsh reality of Spanish society at the moment, and you are the most responsible - no, the second responsible, the first one is the president - for this harsh reality and it is the absence of economic policies at the right time, because being late has consequences, but also establishing ineffective measures, even more. You talk about the data that the International Monetary Fund established yesterday and you talk about that we are the engine of growth. But what data did you read yesterday? Because they are not the same ones that we have read this part of the Chamber or that today they publish all the national media, whether of specialized press or of generalist press. Are we all wrong but you? How is it possible that you consider that we are the economy, the engine of growth in Europe, when we are the country with the worst GDP fall in 2020? Is that a growth engine? But it is also that when you talk about that data you are very satisfied because for this year a recovery of 5.8% is established. Of course, we fell by 10.8%; that did not fall in other countries. Other countries have much less to recover. That doesn't mean your growth engine is worse than ours. You want to deceive us absolutely all Spaniards. But, Madam Vice-President, when the forecast of unemployment in this country - which you have called excellent data - is the worst in Europe, of course, we have a problem, and we do not correct this macroeconomic picture as well what it means is that you do not correct the public expenditure that is linked to this unemployment rate, which is already on the table and which you want to hide. When you are obsessing about not changing the macroeconomic picture, we are obviously in a fake news that no verification agent could already see, because no one supports you anymore. What happens is that you are needed to continue spending, spending and spending. Do you know what a serious and responsible policy is, Madam Vice-President? The one who doesn't spend what he doesn't have, the one who doesn't waste what he doesn't need, the one who doesn't ask for more effort from citizens who don't get to the end of the month. [[Applauds]] You speak of a responsible fiscal policy. A responsible fiscal policy is not to freeze taxes on Spanish families. A responsible fiscal policy is not to make businesses have to pay more taxes or to take away profits through bonuses and deductions so that you continue to waste, because they will not be able to generate growth. Madam Vice-President, can you imagine what would have happened if the direct aid, which you implemented a year later, had been implemented in the summer of 2020? And what would have happened if instead of consciously generating all kinds of barriers so that the company, the SME or the self-employed would not have been able to access it? There is no doubt that the future of this country would be much better. I will only ask you one question, Madam Vice-President, concerning the European funds.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u144	Your Honor, your time is up, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u145	I'm finishing up. The operating agreement for the funds has been discussed in the last few days. Why don't you want it to be public? What do you have to hide? The funds aren't yours, Madam Vice President...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u146	Mrs. Gamarra, please finish. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u147	... are Spanish; it must be public and transparent. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u148	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] To conclude the debate, I have the floor on behalf of the Government, the First Vice-President and Minister for Economic Affairs and Digital Transformation.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u149	Thank you, President. Two or three points to conclude this debate. First of all, he asked his lordship and again touched on the issue of debt. I tell you that I am surprised - given the record of the People's Party before we reach the government - that you speak so lightly about the issues of deficit and debt. The fact is that we have already implemented 83,4 % of the emissions programme for this year, that the debt profile of the Kingdom of Spain has continued to improve, that thanks to the interest rates on new emissions the weighted average cost of living debt has continued to decrease and is now 1,66 %; in fact, the average cost of emissions up to 30 September has been negative, of -0,02 %. In addition, the debt of the State is growing in time. On average, our debt has a life of 8.1 years, compared to the 7.6 that we had at the beginning of 2020, and this gives the Treasure of the Kingdom of Spain an important level of resistance. Each year about 12.3% of the state's debt is amortized and this allows us to delay the impact of a possible rise in rates over time. The debt that was issued in the past, for example under his Government, was much higher rates and, therefore, it is to be hoped that, thanks to the good conditions in which we are today and the excellent management of the Treasury, although the rates rise in the coming years, the weighted average cost will continue to decrease. The percentage of debt remains in the hands of non-resident investors, indicating the important confidence in our country of international investors and, in addition, we have had a successful issuance of green bonds. In other words, Spain has great confidence in the international arena, we have even strengthened the long-term sustainability of Spain's public debt and our Government's economic policy has enormous credibility within the European Union and at international level. I am telling you all this because I believe that it can be useful data so that the leader of your party can speak on some ground on these issues and stop making absolutely irresponsible statements that, I insist, do not attack the government, attack Spain. Secondly, I would like to look a little further and emphasize the importance of the deployment of the Recovery Plan. That is what you said; I think I understand that at last you have seen that this is fundamental, that it is good for Spain and that you leave your catastrophic policy with regard to the Recovery Plan, which you have tried to boycott in all the international institutions. The draft State General Budgets for next year foresees a significant amount of investment. Of these, a significant amount of investment comes from European funds, investments that can allow Spain to face or make a technological leap, finally to climb to that new train of the new green and digital economy. I would simply like to point out the 13 300 million euros of R & D+i in science and digitisation. Between 2020 and 2022 we will double public investment in science. This is absolutely essential for an economic recovery that, in addition, modernizes our productive fabric. We have been particularly ambitious with all those reforms and investments that allow us to have a recovery focused on the four axes of the Recovery Plan: green, digital, social and territorial cohesion and gender equality. I would really like these investments to get in the car, to boost this policy, because that is what our country needs and, above all, to take advantage of the historic opportunity of this EUR 140 billion that, thanks to the negotiation of President Sánchez, we have managed to adopt with the European leaders. But as important as investments are reforms and, in this regard, I would like to point out the importance of some of those here in Parliament, such as the reform of the FP. In the near future, the law Crea y Grece will come, to promote business creation and growth, the law of startups, the audiovisual law and the law of telecommunications. Of course, I hope that we will adopt the labour reform before the end of the year; a labour reform that will be balanced, as is the housing bill that will come to this Parliament soon, because after intense negotiations and a lot of work it is a law that accompanies the entire housing policy of our Government, focused on giving access to housing to the most vulnerable people and, in particular, to young people. It seeks, inter alia, to rebuild that public park of social housing that was dismantled by previous Governments, as will tax reform in the light of the experts'report. Let me finish with an element that I would like to clarify, and it is perhaps the element in which you and I disagree. I am glad that you have spoken about the need to reduce inequality, it is one of the imbalances that we have dragged from the past, it is one of the pitfalls of the previous financial crisis that had not been resolved when the pandemic struck us. This is where I disagree with your vision, because I don't call it spending and squandering to raise pensions under the CPI. [[Rumors.-Mrs. Gamarra Ruiz-Clavijo makes negative signs]] I don't call spending and squandering to upgrade the lower pensions, to pay the minimum living income, because I believe all these measures...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u150	Your Honor, you must go ahead and finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u151	... they are a guarantee and a fundamental pillar for Spain, a rich country, to stop having poor children and, ultimately, for us to have a sustainable recovery from an economic, financial, environmental and also social point of view. So that we may have, Your Honor, a fair recovery. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u152	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] - OF THE VOX PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, ON THE MEASURES TO BE DEVELOPED THE MINISTRY OF SOCIAL RIGHTS AND THE 2030 AGENDA FOR THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE JOURNAL BONUS COMMITMENT MADE BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT. [[File number 172/000144]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u153	Urgent inquiry by the VOX Parliamentary Group on the measures to be developed by the Ministry of Social Rights and Agenda 2030 to implement the young bonus commitment formulated by the President of the Government. For her defense, Mrs. Errás Pabón has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u154	Thank you, President. Good morning, Minister. Today we are here to talk about the bonds that the Spanish Government intends to boost among the new voters. It's 250 euros a month for housing and a cultural bonus of 400 euros, a gift to young people of 3400 euros a year that basically goes out of the way to tax their parents, parents who can't even reach the end of the month, who can't even pay the bill for the light while you collect more than 3300 million euros thanks to this price increase. Minister, I have to tell you that the first thing I'm surprised is that they call it bono. Bono, why don't you call it a book? This would make intentionality much clearer: rationing book, because you can't afford to eat; rental book, because you can't afford a home; cultural book, because you are a young man in the country with the greatest youth unemployment in Europe and you can't afford to even buy books or pay a ticket to go to the theater. But no, Minister, you call it bono, and that is the problem, that the solution is not a bono, but to give work and quality opportunities to young people. It's no use breaking our young people's legs and futures and then giving them a strawberry crutches so they can try to stand up as they can. Minister, let's talk about the young bonus, the charter. I will be very clear: housing is expensive because it is scarce. The solution is to increase the supply. However, with this bonus, with this booklet, what they are stimulating is demand, which is already overstimulated. If you stimulate only demand, what is going to cause is an increase in prices, a lot of demand with little supply and higher prices. Minister, it's called the law of supply and demand. That we have to be explaining this at the plenary session of the Congress of Deputies in 2021 is quite worrying. What happens if, as you claim, rent prices are involved? They will lead to an even greater contraction in supply and, together with increased demand, will therefore entail an increase in prices in the medium and long term which will further hinder access to decent housing for thousands of citizens and families. [[Applauds]] In those countries where we have seen the delivery of some aid voucher such as this 250 euro voucher per month that you defend, what has caused the market to absorb it, greatly increasing the price of rent, which not only nullifies the supposed benefit of the bonus, but also causes all citizens who do not have it to pay even more for their housing. On the other hand, the new housing law that this government intends to adopt will include, as it has stated in several media - look at me, minister, that I am talking to you - the 30% reserve for sheltered housing. This may interest you, so please listen to me, because this measure means that it will cost 70% of the promotion that is not protected, further hindering access to housing for the rest, for that majority, for that 70% of families that cannot now be allowed access to housing as a result of price increases for their harmful policies. In addition, you announced this measure as a forced reservation to content your voters, but it actually depends on the municipalities and, therefore, this will lead to unequal and ideological application. Unequal, because it will depend on each municipality and therefore on each territory; and ideological, because it will only be approved by those municipalities that you control and will therefore drive away the investment capital of those territories that approve it, as we have seen already in Barcelona. With the 150% charge of the IBI to tax the ownership of empty houses the same happens, it is the municipalities that will decide whether or not to apply the charge. It would therefore be desirable for you first to understand your own initiatives better than you have already shown to understand the Workers' Statute when it was invented that gender wage discrimination is legal, which is not as much as you say and repeat it. It is not, as specified in article 28 of the Workers'Statute or in article 14 of our Constitution. Madam Minister, the same rules you intend to apply already exist in Barcelona in Ada Colau since 2019, and require that 30% of the larger projects be reserved for social housing. Do you know what happened? This can be asked to the Association of Promoters of Catalonia, when they denounce the flight of investment from the territory to other metropolitan areas and, in particular, to the Community of Madrid. By limiting rental prices, the supply of housing in Barcelona has fallen by 42% compared to last year and, as a result, prices in Barcelona have fallen considerably less than they have fallen in the Community of Madrid where, by the way, there is no law regulating rents for rental housing. Can you explain to us how this is possible if the law is supposedly, in your opinion, so beneficial to the tenants, Mrs. Belarra? What reality is explaining to you, minister, is that reducing the housing stock makes renting even more difficult. It's pure common sense. What needs to be done is to increase the supply, just the opposite of the policies that you are promoting, as the experts insist and as this parliamentary group also insists. What you propose is basically an empty marketing campaign to try to convince those of you who manage to cheat, that is, that at least it is improving the situation And it is not true, it is a lie; not only do you not improve the situation, but you make it worse with expired and proven failed recipes that have already happened in Barcelona, but also in Berlin or Paris. In Berlin, with a price rise of 36 %, a fall in supply of 25 % and its Constitutional Court laying down this rental law throughout Germany. And in Paris, with similar results. And if you want to see the results in Barcelona, minister, I recommend you go and try to rent a flat there, even if you go carefully, take machete and burka, because according to which parts you can no longer walk without going armed or covered from above. [[Applauds]] What you happily call multiculturalism. The way to improve people's lives is not by law and decree; nor by lying to the Spaniards and misrepresenting the data, because you lie until you use your rhetoric of the big housing forks, when you talk about the vulture funds, because only 5% of the rented housing is in the hands of big owners; only 5%. Have you thought of looking for mechanisms that do not interfere directly with the market, such as changing for example the paguitas buy votes for the reduction of the fiscal haze suffered by the builders at every step of the process? This would reduce construction, stimulate supply and reduce the final price of housing and rent. If you know that you are not discovering gunpowder, because these measures have already been applied elsewhere and have not worked, why do you insist, Minister? Although, of course, if you did not want to repeat something historical and demonstrably harmful to the human being and to society you would not be a communist, it is also true. What a silly question! [[Applauds]] Finally, thank you, Minister, for making the house even more inaccessible to all, for which you will not be able to access the bond and for those who will see how after the end of the bond the prices of your housing will not go down. But maybe you don't care so much about the housing as about the loss of votes in the under thirty-fives, and that's why you've also come up with the cultural bonus, the 400-euro cultural card that you announced last week. Let's talk about the cultural chart. First they tell us that they are forced to raise the taxes of the self-employed to pay health and education, and a few weeks later they announce to the young people a cultural card of 400 euros. A few weeks go up taxes - diesel, tolls and all kinds of fees - to maintain basic services, you say, and other weeks you invent 200 million euros of cultural cartilage. His Government's 250-euro housing portfolio is an exact copy of Zapatero's 200-euro housing cheque. And along with the 400-euro cultural portfolio, they both basically share the same intention: to try to buy new Chavista-style voters. What happens, that since you have not given time to give the right to vote to thousands of illegal immigrants have been urgently forced into the cultural paguita as a desperate way to try to stay in Moncloa, Mrs. Belarus? Madam Minister, it is not that it is negative to offer young people a cultural bonus so that they can diversify their cultural consumption, but as you announce, as a headline brush, it has an obvious electoral intention. Now all we need to know is whether young people will be able to use the bonus for exhibitions, shows, courses, workshops or conferences that they themselves decide or will be the ones that you impose on them, screening in a sectarian and ideological way, as you have already done, excluding the Taurino shows from the fertilizer. This Government does not have time to check the harmful effects of its housing law, but to take care of expelling the Taurino shows from the cultural bonocardilla. Their hatred is so strong that even in this they can hide their ideological sectarianism that permeates everything they do. The young people do not want only the 400 euros that you already confiscate from your parents' pocket with the rise of taxes, the diesel or the increase of the bill of light; the young people want quality jobs, they want a wage fruit of their effort, they want freedom, they want to be able to live in a dignified house and realize once and for all the life project for which they fight and fight with their effort, minister, daily. In a country where we lead youth unemployment, they should be more concerned with combating job insecurity and offering opportunities and encouraging employment to young people, rather than sharing patches in the form of a cultural or rental book. Fortunately, the new generations in this country already know what their sectarian ideology promotes and what they represent, and are not going to let themselves be bought by these populist initiatives of the Government. Ladies and gentlemen, in the face of this political demagogy, in VOX we defend those measures which are the source of the problem, rather than patches or booklets. The Spaniards need to have their own money in their pockets and decide freely to spend it without an army of bureaucrats telling them what to spend it on with the crumbs they collect from their taxes. This is what we're going to do on VOX when we get to the government: return the money to the citizens' pocket. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u155	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] I now have the floor on behalf of the Government, the Minister for Social Rights and Agenda 2030.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u156	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Our country has been in a very serious housing emergency for years. I believe that if there is an image that has been recorded on fire in the collective memory of our country, it is that of the thousands of activists who in the previous economic crisis put their bodies to stop the evictions. Normal people who, seeing how they were throwing their neighbors and neighbors out of their homes, stood in front of the door so that they wouldn't be left without anything; people who thought - as I think most people think in our country and as they sang, they will remember, with a great beautiful Silvia Pérez Cruz - that it is indecent that there are people without houses and houses without people. Specifically, 3.4 million empty dwellings in our country, according to the latest data from the National Statistical Institute. After the outbreak of the mortgage bubble, when the People's Party government asked us to tighten our belts and cut public services, they agreed to a rescue to the bank that, in the words of Mr Rajoy himself, would not cost the citizen a euro and would pay the bank himself. Well, the banking sector still owes the Spanish and Spanish, in the most conservative data, 40 billion euros, 40 billion euros that we pay with our public health, with our public education and with our pensions. And a few years later, the real estate sector showed that it had learned absolutely nothing from the mortgage bubble and, driven by speculation, dedicated itself to buying rented houses and also to speculating with the tourist flats. The banks gave way to the investment funds and today Blackstone is already the main homemaker of our country with more than 20,000 homes throughout Spain. The rental bubble was quickly inflated as well. Tenants and tenants now spend an average of 40% of their income in Spain today to pay rent, in some large cities more than 50% of their income; that is, there are people who spend more than half of what they earn only to pay for their housing, a burden that is suffocating families and that prevents young people from being able to emancipate, have a project of self-reliant living, decide whether they want to live alone, whether they want to live with their friends or partners, or whether they have children or not. Rental prices, ladies and gentlemen, involve a lot more than a house. Today being young in our country implies having to face draconian conditions to rent a flat: a fixed contract, guarantees, very high bonds and also - why not say it - having to get tired of going from cuchitril to cuchitril in order to end up choosing to share a flat in order to live in a half decent house. Not to mention all those who stay at their parents' house much longer than they would like for not being able to emancipate. And despite the enormous hardness of the housing emergency in our country, no government before the government By coalition he had dared to look at the problem of the front, he had dared to truly protect the people and to put order in a housing market that is plagued and in which the law of the jungle has always prevailed. That is why the housing law that we will bring to the Council of Ministers in the coming weeks is so important. It is so important because in addition to being the first housing law of democracy it implies a paradigm shift, a cultural change that understands that for the first time the housing market must be intervened in order to protect people from speculation of investment funds and big owners. Housing becomes a right and ceases to be a market asset. [[Applauds]] With this law for the first time the large owners, legal persons who own more than ten dwellings will have to be jointly responsible for guaranteeing the right to housing. They can do business, yes, but not at any price. In stressed market areas, large owners will have to lower rent prices by law to the benchmarks we set. We are also going to regulate the prices of rent for small-scale owners in stressed market areas, to which the freezing will apply; but we are going to help them and through tax incentives we are going to make small-scale owners pay down prices. They will wonder how we will cover this measure. Very simple: by withdrawing the inconceivable tax benefits paid by the big owners in our country, which are going to go from a bonus of 85% to 40%. [[Applauds]] These absolutely essential rental price regulation measures will be complemented by a young bonus of 250 euros that will help young people have a little easier to pay the rent at the end of the month. Ladies and gentlemen, this new law will also protect the most vulnerable families from evictions. The courts will have an obligation to request a report from social services to identify the vulnerability of families. And the autonomous communities are going to have to look for a decent housing alternative and not put people in shelters, as the Community of Madrid does. This law also looks to the future and tries to solve one of the great problems of our country: the lack of public housing to which our young people can access, and also the whole citizenry at affordable prices. See if this problem is serious, which in Spain does not reach social housing for every 100 people, while there are other countries in the European Union, such as the Netherlands, which have almost 13 social housing units for every 100 inhabitants. That is why we will make it compulsory to reserve 30% of promotions, new and also major works in the centre of cities, for sheltered housing, and that half of that 30% must go to social rental. I know that this seems a barbarity to your members of the People's Party and VOX because they do not like the idea that there are normal people in their upper class neighborhoods, but I tell you very clearly: as long as this government continues to rule, they will have to keep their class in a drawer. [[Applauds]] It is also of concern to the right that this regulation may lead to the loss of supply. I will give you a fact that I think you speak for yourself: the housing stock in Spain increased between 2015 and 2019 in 250,000 housing units. At the same time, ladies and gentlemen - at the same time - the rental price increased by 50 % between 2015 and 2020; it increased the supply at the same time as the rental prices increased. That is why it is absolutely essential that we regulate prices. This law is going to protect tenants and tenants, makes it easy for small owners and requires an essential co-responsibility of large owners; it is also going to take care of families in eviction situations. Then you will wonder and wonder who is seeing us why the right has been shouting since we announced the agreement last week. Well, basically, because this law is going to start putting a stop to your business and corrupt it with the public and public housing. We will prohibit by law that protected public housing may be sold or reclassified. Once and for all, there were no more aberrations like the one that Mrs. Botella perpetuated at Madrid City Hall, delivering more than 1800 official protective houses to vulture funds. [[Applauds]] We're going to protect people, and we're going to give them security, to those who sell the house, to those who have no homeland but their benefits. For all this, the new housing law will be absolutely fundamental; a law, moreover, which I hope will be improved and enriched in the parliamentary process, but which will be a good starting point for us to make progress in protecting the right to housing in our country. Without any doubt, the housing law would not have been possible without all those activists for the right to housing, without the unions of tenants and tenants who marked the way to this law with Catalan law, and also without all those who have put their bodies to stop evictions in the worst moments of our country's economic crises. [[Applauds]] Thank you very much, wholeheartedly, from this rostrum, to all those who are committed to human rights and have fought for the common good, without expecting anything in return, rather than the social advancement of our people. I'm convinced you're going to help us a lot to keep this law improving. I'm finishing up, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to point out that this Government's commitment to the youth of our country does not end only with the housing law. The budgets we have just approved have a historic investment in youth: EUR 12 550 million for youth policies in their entirety. But we are also going to repeal the labour reform. We know that one of the main scourges of the people of our country is that it cannot access a decent job, that precariousness, unfortunately, is the way of life of young people in our country. That is why repealing labour reform and betting on a young cultural bonus that allows them to access culture on an equal footing are fundamental rights that we are going to guarantee and that this government is going to guarantee urgently. I want to end with a reflection: I believe that the young people of our country are tired of being broken dishes in all the economic crises, and that they are only talking about them and them to say that they are bottling or that they are the generation of glass. I tell you very clearly, ladies and gentlemen, that is not true. I am very proud every time we go to the demonstrations on March 8 and they are full of young women and girls who are fighting for the rights of all. [[Applauds]] I am very proud that it is the young people in our country who are saying that we do not have a spare planet and are leading environmental mobilizations. All of them and they are demonstrating that youth in our country are treading hard, that they are committed to our environment, to feminist rights, and it is the duty of public institutions to give them the necessary tools to enable them to develop happy lives and full lives. That is what this Government is committed to. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u157	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] I give the floor to Mrs. Errás Pabon. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u158	Thank you, President. Madam Minister, it is clear from your speech that, apart from not understanding the minimum of how the rental market works in Spain, you have not listened to me. She's very busy watching her mobile as I speak to her from the rostrum and it's a shame because, if she listened to us a little bit, she might learn something and not apply these bad policies that will do so much harm to the Spaniards. How do you tell me about protecting the right to rent if you are unable to protect private property and privacy in the home, which is constantly violated by these okupa movements that you so defend? The protection of property and privacy in the home are essential and therefore VOX defends the hardening of the law against the mafias of the okupación, as well as the guarantee of a roof to all needy Spanish. He spoke in his intervention about the need for social housing. The housing of her partner, the communist minister, Yolanda Díaz, occupies 440 square meters, with community and service costs included. [[Applauds]] It's 440 meters of social housing. The possibility of access to a house - we have said it insistently from our parliamentary group - cannot become a luxury that only a few can afford and this is achieved, minister, by reducing taxes, reducing bureaucracy and improving regulation, increasing supply and liberalizing all the land that is not protected, by building public social housing under ownership or lease with option to purchase and, above all, not having complicity with these okupa housing movements, which is quite contrary to what this government does. Madam Minister, it is necessary to review and reduce massively the taxes and burdens in the building process, from the construction of a plot to the sale or rental of the house, because it has become a fiscal yincan, where the state bites you at taxes at every step, and this is one of the main factors, Madam Minister, that increase prices. Spain is the European power with the least rented. 76.2% of the population live in privately owned households and only 23.8% live in rented or leased homes. I say this to you because you must understand from perspective the housing reality of our country, where we should expand the available park of housing for rent instead of implementing measures such as those you propose, which are just in the opposite direction, to reduce that park. By the way, you said - I don't know if you remember it - that 80% of empty houses are in the hands of banks and vulture funds. You invented the data, misrepresenting, as you have done today from this rostrum, of the Register of empty dwellings of the Generality of Catalonia, ignoring that this register does not measure all empty dwellings, but only legal persons who acquire the flat by mortgage execution or by payment. This is the reality of the data, or is it that the data are also facsimile, Minister? Just as we have been lied to and invented, most of what you have said in this speech has been invented today. If they were new or disruptive measures, ladies and gentlemen, there might even be the practical doubt of themselves actually working, but it is not necessary to be pythonized and not even to go to the example of other countries. It is enough to look around us in our own country to see that its measures cause less supply, an increase in prices, worse housing crisis and, ultimately, more problems in the housing market. The truth is that I expected less ideological corporatism from someone theoretically less exalted and radical than our party used to, but I see how difficult it is to make someone understand something when their salary depends precisely on not understanding it. The lie is a lie, Minister, even if you say it with that kind and forgiving tone that comes to us here. And his work as minister of a communist party depends precisely on not recognizing that his measures are going to generate more misery, more unemployment, more housing shortages, more expensive prices and a submerged economy. Madam Minister - and it is over -, as I said before, young people want freedom and work, and they take the price of the effort to achieve it, the price of the effort, Madam Minister!, not the price of submission, the price of almsgiving or the price of false all free, either with bonuses or with approved free at the cost of the effort of their parents and which inevitably condemns the future of our young people. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u159	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] To conclude the debate, I have the floor on behalf of the Government, the Minister for Social Rights and Agenda 2030.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u160	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, in this very difficult year and a half of the pandemic, when the people of our country were having a really bad time, the right and the right, instead of hoisting their shoulders, decided to oppose everything and follow the maximum that the worse, the better for them. The ultra-right voted against the ERTE, the aid to the self-employed and self-employed; nor did it support the increase in pensions; they voted against it even to prohibit dismissal for medical reasons, ladies and gentlemen. The People's Party and VOX will have extraordinarily difficult - I think - to explain to the citizens why they will not support and apply the measures of the housing law, why the people living in Valencia will be able to see how their rent is lowered while in Madrid they will continue to pay 800, 900 or 1000 euros for more than normal floors. These measures are rental price regulation measures that already apply in many other European countries and in other parts of the world. Australia, Austria, Canada, Denmark, France, Germany, Norway, Sweden and the United States are some of the places - countries with little suspicion of communist socialist dictatorships - that also apply the regulation of rental prices. So I think what we're doing is basically common sense: putting a stop to the benefits and privileges of big owners to guarantee our people's right to housing. Perhaps the position of the members of the People's Party and VOX before the housing law is a little better understood if we remember some data. Among its ranks - among the ranks of the People's Party - are large homeowners, such as former Minister García Tejerina. In addition to Ana Botella's case at the Madrid City Hall, the People's Party of the Madrid Community not only illegally sold public housing to the Goldman Sachs subsidiary, but has been refusing to comply with the court rulings that forced her to recover those housing. Ms. Ayuso took advantage of the pandemic to approve the most anti-democratic reform of the Soil Law and, in addition, without a quorum, something that has made the law constitutional. Not to mention the numerous well-known builders who appeared in the papers of Barcenas and who illegally financed the People's Party. It is also true that the far right is not behind the People's Party. The Espinosa de los Monteros-Monasterio marriage is well known for its turbulent real estate business. In addition to the fact that Mrs. Monasterio signed works without being yet an architect, they have left part of the works of their houses unpaid and have sold industrial ships as if they were houses, as luxury lofts. Perhaps this makes it a little better to understand VOX's proposals to divide the floors for young people or also its defense of the beehive floors. For all of us to understand each other well, they can be multi-owners, while the young people of our country have to live in slumbers. [[Applauds]] So I am fully aware that VOX and the People's Party are going to oppose the housing law frontally because it is going to try to put an end to real estate speculation and guarantee the right to housing, especially when these are the tax benefits that we are going to eliminate the big owners and that we are going to be able to protect the little homeowners. You are interested in protecting the business from big owners and vulture funds, and so you will defend it to the end; I know very well. You are never going to be part of the solution because, in fact, you are part of the problem. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u161	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] We then proceed to discuss the motion resulting from an urgent inquiry by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Quevedo Iturbe, on the measures envisaged to reduce disaster caused by drowning and accidents in aquatic areas. There are three hands raised; let's see which one asks for the word. Who's asking for the floor, please? [[Mr Espinosa de los Monteros de Simon asks for the floor]] Tell me.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u162	Mr President, in relation to Rule 72 and in relation to Rule 71, I would like to say a few words.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u163	You've got a minute.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u164	I want to remind the minister that the person to whom he refers, who is Rocío Monastery, licensed in Architecture, one of the best of his generation, was falsely accused of things for which we have brought to trial those who raised that accusation, that justice has given us reason and that, therefore, what he is saying are mere slanders. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u165	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u166	Let's keep going. As I said to you, Mr Quevedo Iturbe has the floor for the initiative and for the defence of the motion.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u167	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning to all and everyone. The other day we presented and defended an inquiry on the question of the phenomenon of drownings in Spain and the world, and, in general, of accidents in aquatic spaces throughout the State and also throughout the world. We said that this is a silent and silent epidemic because, as the data show, in Spain every year five hundred people lose their lives for this reason. I already know that this figure, compared to the past pandemic, seems anything, but five hundred people are a few people. There are about one thousand and five hundred people who suffer an accident on the coasts, pools, swamps, lakes or rivers of the State; of them, an average of forty boys or girls lose their lives a year in this country. More people lose their lives by drowning than by industrial accidents or fire in the Spanish State; and in the case of the Canary Islands, because of the important issue of the prevalence of tourism, there are more drowning accidents than traffic accidents, which, as is known, is the third known cause of death, behind cardiovascular accidents and cancer, in all developed countries. It does not, of course, affect only those autonomous communities that have coasts; it is clear that communities that do not have coasts also suffer accidents of this nature. Over the past seven years, the platform 'Canaries, 1500 km of coast' has become a real emblem of the need to raise awareness about this problem, to the point that they have reached a global dimension in their demands, which have inspired us to be here today. I believe that they have well defined the causes of these kinds of problems: recklessness, ignorance, unattended beaches, trauma, alcohol or drug intake, hydrocution - famous digestion cutting - and chronic diseases. Therefore, this is well identified. However, this is not an exclusive problem in Spain. Drowning is the third leading cause of non-traumatic death on the planet, so WHO has recognized drowning as a world-class public health problem, as we put in the motion's petitum. Similarly, the United Nations has activated an alert on this issue, for the first time in its history, signed by 194 countries around the world, so that nations are urged to enact laws, develop national drowning prevention plans, promote public awareness and prevention campaigns to reduce drowning, etc. In the European Union, the only serious approximation study is the one developed by the platform 'Canaries, 1500 km of coast' and some other associated entities, some of them from the Spanish State. I believe that the problem is clear and the need to make an effort to make visible this genuine pandemic that affects us all and not just the Spanish State is clear. We have a historic opportunity to worry and, above all, to deal with this issue. This should not continue to be an ignored risk. That is why we have put forward a set of proposals in which we urge the Government to act in this area. I must say, we've worked on this. I have had the opportunity to speak with the Socialist Party, with which we have made a compromise; with Unidad Podemos; with the Republican Group; with the PNV; I have not been able to speak with the People's Party, because I have not had the opportunity, but we have already spoken before. I believe that the compromise amendment that we have reached is an amendment that basically responds to the concerns of all those groups I have spoken to. In the case of the People's Party, there are issues that arise that I believe are not alien to the meaning of the motion, but are probably more subject to subsequent regulatory development than to the meaning of the motion, which is to make it visible. That is why I ask you to excuse me if we have not had the opportunity to reach an agreement on that. The first point is to assume the phenomenon of aquatic accidents as a top-level public health problem, according to the WHO statement. The second is to strengthen, within the Interterritorial Council of the National Health System, the formulation of common health policies to act on this phenomenon. However, in the motion there is something going through the spirit of what is being raised, and that is that actions must be transversal, not exclusive to the health sector. This is also the responsibility of public health, and for this reason in point 4 we propose to strengthen cross-sectoral coordination in health, education, security and tourism, and territorial governance for the involvement of the different sectors and institutional and territorial areas. It is clear that we know the level of decentralization of competences in the Spanish State; therefore, it is difficult to envisage a single centralised body, because it would invade the competences of the autonomous communities or of the local bodies. We believe that with this it is clear that it is not a question of doing any of that, but we do try to insist on the need to strengthen the Aquaticus system, which is a system of data collection in the State, which is fine, but turns it into an observatory for the information of communities, users, local corporations and, as is natural, of the Spanish Government itself. Finally, we propose to guide all actions from the principles of education, awareness-raising, prevention, training, intervention and action. With this amendment we try to respond to the general concern of the whole world, without going into great depth, because then it would be difficult to reach an agreement. What is important here is to make this issue visible, and I believe that today we have the opportunity to do so in the case of the Congress of Deputies. That is why I ask you to support this motion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u168	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the defence of the amendments put forward by your group, Mr Legarda Uriarte is speaking by the Basque Parliamentary Group. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u169	Thank you very much, President. We are debating a motion, as has already been said, on the unknown risk posed by the playful use of the aquatic environment because of the serious consequences it entails in the form of accidents and, in certain accidents, as a result of deaths. A reality that is reflected - as we had already heard in the interpellation and today pointed out to us by our colleague Mr Quevedo - in demonstrations not only in the State but also in the sphere of the Union and at world level, which has called for the attention of international organizations such as the United Nations - with resolutions this same year that have already been mentioned here - the European Union and even the World Health Organization, which call for measures to deal with a reality that challenges us. In short, it is a question of reflecting on what more we can and must take to avoid or reduce accidentality in the aquatic environment, taking into account its variety, since the maritime waters are not the same as the continental waters and, within the continental ones, the rivers are not the same as the marshes, or even another aquatic environment such as that of the public pools. But, in addition to this variety of the aquatic environment, there is also the variety, as has been pointed out, of the various public administrations with responsibilities in these different areas. Therefore, the approach, in fact, must be multidisciplinary - health, safety and education - and also multilevel. This multi-disciplinary and multi-level dimension leads us to essential elements of cooperation in order to give full value to the activities carried out in each area and by each Administration, through appropriate synergies, and also to achieve the greatest effectiveness and complementarity of all actions. We have no doubt - I don't think anyone has any doubts - that it is essential that the databases are up to date and reliable. It has been pointed out to us - it is in a compromise amendment that I will then comment - that the current aquatic file - today is only obligatory for swimming pools and it is voluntary for the rest of the bathing areas to communicate the incidents - could be a file that collects all the incidences in the aquatic environment in all its varieties. We have also been pointed out that information, awareness-raising and prevention campaigns, moving from ignored risk to a known risk are essential; that it is also essential to reflect on improvements in the training of resources for both risk prevention and its neutralization, if it comes to materialization, and that the principles of action in this multifaceted field call for approaches - as has already been said - from education, prevention, training and reaction. With regard to the original motion, we put forward an amendment because we believe that there was a certain partial contradiction between the narrative of the multidisciplinary and multilevel dimension of this problem of playful drowning, and to pretend that the omni-understanding approach to the formulation of all public common policies was from the point of view of health. We believe that health is an aspect to be taken into account also for prevention purposes, but we believe that the motion with the transaction we have been aware of has now become much better, which confines the activity of the Interterritorial Council of the National Health System to those common proposals in the health field and not in the other concerned such as safety, education, etc. In short - and I am final - I would like to thank the whole of the social initiative for its work in raising awareness of this serious problem, and to point out that, in the terms in which the transactional has remained, we will vote in favour. Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u170	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Granollers Cunillera has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u171	Thank you, President. Bon dia, deputies and deputies. If something we know well in Catalonia is the strength of organised civil society, and that is why, first, I want to mention Mr Sebastián Quintana Galván and all the people who are part of the Canary Islands Platform 1500 Kilometers of Costa, for their work, their impetus and their effort to reduce drowning accidents and accidents in the aquatic media. [[Applauds]] This work arrives today at the Congress of Deputies in the form of a motion, which Mr Quevedo has presented to us here. We fully agree that prevention and awareness-raising campaigns are essential to reduce and prevent such tragedies, but we do lack some data. When we analyze the phenomenon of drowning, we cannot make the mistake of analyzing these accidents without taking into account the people who daily lose their lives in shipwrecks looking for a better life. Let's not make this investigation first-class and second-class citizens. To set an example and to be understood correctly, I will explain what I mean. The number of people killed by drowning in 2018, according to Acnur, and only in the Mediterranean, exceeds 2,000 people. According to the Canary Islands Platform 1500 Kilometers of Costa, the number of people killed by drowning throughout the Spanish State is 470. Acnur has also repeatedly called on the international community to address the root causes and motives of displacement that are forcing the population to embark on dangerous and risky journeys. We are convinced that only dealing is silenced sinestrality from all fronts and all its causes we will be able to reduce them, if we do not run a risk: let the criminal day of February 6, 2014 happen again on the beach of El Tarajal, where people who came swimming to the coast of the Spanish State were shot. [[Applauds]] At point 3, Mr Quevedo, we have amended the text, because with regard to involving all institutional areas, we say yes, but listening attentively to those who know their territory we have seen how, after the pandemic, many of the rural environments with rivers, wells, reservoirs or swamps have increased their activity and, therefore, their sinestrality. For example, in the region of La Noguera there is a town, Camarasa, with a reservoir and a river to bathe in. In the summer of 2020, the mayor of Camarasa pointed out the high influx of tourists who moved to her village, with all the risks involved in the massive arrival of tourism, especially if she is young. Do you not think, ladies and gentlemen, that who knows better the risk of drowning by accident in the Camarasa swamp is the mayoress, her town hall or the Consell Comarcal de La Noguera? That is why it must be these municipalities and their county councils that produce these studies. We must give them, yes, all the resources and infrastructures necessary for the study and prevention of these accidents and thus be able to avoid them. It seems to us that collective awareness, together with prevention education and a good rescue plan, will be the best formula. We carry out campaigns like the DGT, but we must adapt them to each area, because it is not the same as a reservoir, a river, a swimming pool or even the open sea. I'm done, Mr. Quevedo. Your initiative needs to be approved, we are going to vote in favour, but let us do it right. All lives are important, all causes are important. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u172	Thank you. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr. Ledesma Martín has the floor. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u173	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Before I begin, as a canary, let me say my first words to the island of La Palma, where that volcano continues to destroy. [[Applauds]] It is not a wonderful spectacle, and we want to tell the palm trees that they not only have our solidarity, but also have our commitment to push them all together to get ahead of this catastrophe that they are suffering, because we are stronger than the volcano. The issue before us today is a serious one, an important one. The drownings occur not only on the coasts surrounding the peninsula and the archipelagos, but also in the interior of the peninsula, in the marshes, rivers, lakes, pools, etc. Drowning is a public health problem that must be given the importance of safeguarding life. They are the third leading cause of death from unintentional trauma in the world, accounting for 7% of all trauma-related deaths. In Spain, more than 2,000 people have died in recent years, forcing us to take action. A national aquatic security strategy is needed, first and foremost, to raise awareness in this area, generate consensus on possible solutions, set strategic action lines, and provide a framework for cross-sectoral activities, enabling the monitoring and evaluation of the work carried out. We therefore believe that this drowning prevention programme is necessary, in line with the interventions recommended by the World Health Organization, as part of the culture of aquatic prevention, with active and reactive measures. In the Canary Islands, we have been listening to this theme thanks to the commendable work of Sebastián Quintana Galván, through the Canary Islands Platform 1500 Kilometers of Costa, as other speakers have already mentioned here, with twelve television spots that were translated into several languages. As a result of this work, that contribution to my land has been achieved by bringing down the number of drowned people by more than 40 per cent. Therefore, we understand that it is time for lifeguards, experts and administrations - all administrations - to agree to improve this matter. The life of the population is at stake not only, but also that of all the professionals responsible for safeguarding it. It is true that the issue of drowning and accidents in aquatic spaces affects a specific matter. Prevention has diffuse powers, but we believe that it needs to be raised from a cross-cutting point of view, bearing in mind that it is a matter that needs to be addressed from the point of view of inter-administrative coordination and that it affects many areas. We cannot forget the work of those who also carry out civil protection. We therefore propose in this motion a series of amendments to improve it, to clarify and improve its terms. In any case, Mr Quevedo, our vote will be in favour. Amendment to paragraph 1 and addition amendments to paragraphs 7, 8, 9 and 10. With regard to paragraph 1, we believe that it should be complemented by the immediate impetus of concrete and specific measures to update the health promotion and prevention strategy of the National Health System, from the full consensus with the Autonomous Communities, of course, and full coordination with healthcare professionals and patient associations. In the amendments we have added paragraphs 7, 8, 9 and 10. In paragraph 7 we introduce the need to regulate the profession of rescuer, in order to equip it with better professional training and to reduce, above all, precariousness. They are people who risk their lives to save the lives of others. For example, in the last few days we also have demonstrations on the Balearic Islands because of the precariousness that the rescuers are suffering. In paragraph 8, Spain is a world power in tourism and the proposed measures to affect the phenomenon of aquatic accidents to the safety of its customers should therefore be negotiated with the sector. In paragraph 9, the Directorate-General for Civil Protection should be added and used as a coordinating body for all the institutions and the respective areas involved in the prevention of drowning and other accidents in the aquatic environment, which would also depend on the observatory referred to in paragraph 3 of the motion. Finally, in paragraph 10, the House must, of course, be informed within three months of the development of this initiative.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u174	Your Honor, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u175	I'm done, Mr. President. In short, the People's Party is committed to the safety of users of beaches, rivers, swamps or swimming pools, and we propose cross-cutting solutions...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u176	Your Honor, finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u177	... in coordination with all administrations. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u178	Thank you. For the Socialist Group, I have the floor, Mrs González Pérez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u179	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. We are discussing a matter of first magnitude concerning public health, with special consequences, not only in the archipelagos and coastal areas of our country, but also in all the rivers, lakes, swamps and pools located in our territory. In the Canary Islands, the Canary Islands Association 1500 Kilometers de Costa is well aware of this reality, and I would like to congratulate it on its work in promoting the culture of aquatic security because, although we will never know for sure, I am sure that the intense work deployed to date has saved many lives not only in the Canary Islands, but throughout the world. Congressman Pedro Quevedo, island and Atlantic like me, wanted to highlight the third cause of death that particularly affects young people, drownings. Undoubtedly, accidents in aquatic environments are a public health problem, although our country is well advanced in terms of legislation for their prevention, with measures contained in Costas Law 22/1988, as well as in several decree-laws. Despite the undoubted progress in this area, the staggering death figures mean that we cannot but agree on the need to devote our attention to disaster caused by drowning and water accidents. So, in the spirit of cooperating and contributing to the motion that we are discussing some issue that we consider to be of interest, the Socialist Parliamentary Group has worked and tabled an amendment, in collaboration with Mr Quevedo. We are faced with a priority issue in which each Administration has its responsibilities, and collaboration between them is indispensable to save lives. These accidents are especially dramatic if it is possible that, given the recreational contexts of leisure and leisure, the feeling that death could have been avoided will last forever. Therefore, national awareness-raising and awareness-raising activities, training in schools, information to tourists and residents on the risks of each area and the dangers arising from reckless behaviours on beaches, pools and rivers are shown to be essential, at the same time as very effective. No one doubts today that advertising campaigns in the mass media have contributed to changing habits that have made us a more prudent, responsible, healthier society. Some seemingly simple, such as fastening the belt during driving or giving up a fire in a forest, and others huge, such as permanently quitting tobacco consumption or denouncing male domestic assault. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a question of having information to act with intelligence and common sense, and of having the data reach the entire population with responsibility, transparency and efficiency. This purpose will require a statistical update of accident figures in aquatic contexts, to which autonomous municipalities and executives must be committed, in order to analyze the black spots and the ultimate reasons for drowning and to act accordingly. We must remember: every time a swimmer decided, out of prudence, to give the next arm in the direction of the shore instead of the sea; every time a careful mother pulled her little one out of the water in the face of the surge; every time a rescuer's heartbeat, the warning of a red flag or the advice of a family member made a teenager give up from dangerous actions during the bath, a person could save his life and avoid the greatest suffering to his own. I would not like to end without referring to another type of drowning, to those of those who fled their country of origin seeking a better future for them and their families, to those who were not fortunate enough to reach our shores, to those who died along the way. In the Canary Islands in general, and in Lanzarote in particular, we have buried many and many; we are an empathic and welcoming people; our soul is broken by seeing lives broken and lost forever. Every person who does not arrive is an irrecoverable loss, and in the Canary Islands we are committed to the well-being of those who arrive, although many would like it to be the opposite. In any case, it will not distract the Socialist Parliamentary Group from the goal of ensuring safety, well-being and quality of life for people, whether it is those who enjoy recreational leisure on a beach or those who put their lives at risk voluntarily while sailing in pursuit of a dream. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u180	Thank you so much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Díaz Gómez has the floor on behalf of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u181	Thank you, President. A preview. I have seen that Mr. Casado has treated with discretion those we buy comics; he has said that with the cultural bonus the young people will buy comics, as if he were talking about a morrallite. I advise Mr. Casado to read comics, because maybe he stars one and doesn't know it, which is La Cizana, from Asterix. [[applause]] Any liberal party must defend any action aimed at promoting and defending the freedom and autonomy of the individual. Health and well-being are the minimum necessary for each person to be able to implement the life plan he or she considers best with the necessary freedom and autonomy. That is why I believe - and I think we have moral authority to say this for our trajectory in this whole pandemic in the Committee on Health and in this very House - that we are a party that is right to say this: health is always a priority for citizens, as an irrevocable basis on which to build the rest of our policies. And we have demonstrated this in the most critical situations of this pandemic, demonstrating loyalty and responsibility. In particular, when such a policy is implemented, we believe that there are two fundamental principles that should inform it: efficiency and the prevention approach. For them, efficiency implies, in economic terms, the use of the most cost-effective and more value-added actions at each euro invested in these areas. In human terms this, for example, means avoiding measures that could be excessively restrictive or that could have a greater impact than necessary on the citizen, i.e. without losing sight of proportionality. Secondly, the second principle to be reported on in this type of action is prevention. It assumes that actions that aim to avoid problems before they occur are preferred, rather than acting once we have the problem on top to mitigate its adverse effects. Given these pillars of action, in Citizens we can only share the concern of Congressman Quevedo, and we will support this motion. The transactions to which we have come believe to improve it in some respects, but we would have supported it even if they had not changed a coma. We believe that the proposer puts his finger on the sore with a very serious and serious problem, such as water accidents and drownings. He knows them well, through the land in which he lives, and I know him well too; Andalusia is the autonomous community, for population reasons, that has suffered the most from this problem in the first six months of 2021. According to data from the National drowning report, there are twenty deaths that have occurred on the Andalusian coasts and in water spaces. Unfortunately, these figures truncate a downward trend that has been occurring since 2015. It is also particularly worrying, given that almost 23% of episodes are in minors; it is too frequent, more in summer, the drama of drowned children who fill the front pages of newspapers, especially in areas where leisure takes place in places with swimming pools or water shows or water sports sites or where there is coastline. In addition, specialists at the Virgen del Rocío University Hospital have warned this year of the danger of drowning in children and young people with spinal cord injuries caused by diving. Each year they claim that they deal with around a dozen cases that end with the death of a minor or with serious injuries that limit his mobility for the rest of his life. In fact, diving is the third most common cause of spinal cord injury among young people, following traffic accidents and falls. They are the source of 5% of traumatic spinal cord injuries. We, where we govern, in the Junta de Andalucia, have promoted the Stop Drowned strategy, dependent on the Board of Tourism, which, for example, does what it does is to inform on the beaches of the risks, the need to be cautious or to be responsible with drinks or, from the Board of Education, to form in cardiopulmonary resuscitation - which is also effective -, so that it is as well known as possible, because any well-formed can save a life in circumstances such as those we are talking about. Mr Quevedo, you have made a good explanatory statement and will have the support of the Parliamentary Group of Citizens. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u182	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Bel Accensi has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u183	Thank you, President. Mr Quevedo, in fact, it was not up to me to make this speech, it was up to my colleague Concepció Cañadell, who for personal reasons was unable to arrive. I wanted to go up to the rostrum, rather than to establish a position on the part of the Democratic Party - which also - to thank Mr Pedro Quevedo for his initiative. Look, in these days, this week, almost in these years that we are used to seeing how many of the initiatives coming to this plenary or some of the committees aim to put their finger in the eye of the political adversary - the government with the opposition, the opposition with the government - is to thank that a Member like Mr Quevedo brings here an initiative with a constructive spirit, an initiative that surely, Mr Quevedo - I hope I am mistaken - will not generate great headlines in the press. But it is an initiative on a real problem that affects many of our fellow citizens, and that we may not be aware until we are touched closely by a business or a family or a personal reason. Therefore, I would like to congratulate you. I did not hear your question, although I have read it in order to make this intervention. And I must congratulate you and I also say this to the minister's response by doing an empathy exercise. This motion, a consequence of interpellation, which they present in relation to sinestrality in aquatic spaces will have our support. In fact, we wanted to ask you from the Democratic Party to make an effort to be able to reconcile the different initiatives of the different amendments. This, although we have no record, seems to be so. We will not go beyond trying to emphasize that the areas of competence of each of the administrations are respected, as set out in their initiative. We shall see it, but I can tell you that we are going to vote in favour. Because, indeed, Mr Quevedo, in this problem, in others too, but specifically in this one, transversality is absolutely necessary: the transversality of the different departments of each of the governments and the transversality of the different governments with competence in their case. And this is also an aspect that is not usually taken into account. In any case, Mr Quevedo, many congratulations to you, to all those who are going to make it possible for it to be approved, and in any case I just want to make a request to the Government, and it is that this initiative, which is - and we are all going to agree on it - is a good initiative that faces a real problem for our fellow citizens, and that it is not going to raise many headlines, at least it has a real application, that does not remain at a time in the Congress of Deputies in which it stands out. Here is a part of civil society that will be and will continue to watch over this issue. I am sure that Mr Quevedo and his political formation will also do so, but it is important that the Government and the parties of the Government have the responsibility to be able to improve this situation. Finally, I am also addressing Mr Pedro Quevedo, but I could do so to Mrs Oramas or any of the canarian Members. On behalf of the Democratic Party we also want to show our solidarity with all the inhabitants and all the rulers of the island of La Palma. In these natural disasters - we all know this - we all sympathize at the moment - as it should be - but the important thing is that when the catastrophe is over, the consequences of the catastrophe will not be over. Like after a fire or flood, after this eruption of the volcano it is important that public administrations, all of us, over time, be aware of the effects it has caused. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u184	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, I have the floor, Mrs Pita Cárdenes.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u185	President, ladies and gentlemen, good morning to you all. The first thing I want, as it could not be otherwise, is to send all our solidarity, our support and strength to our people in La Palma, to all the palm trees and palm trees that are going so badly. They know that they have us not only now, when the volcano is still erupting; even when the volcano stops we will be there with all our strength, our solidarity and our work. [[Applauds]] It brings us to this rostrum today an issue which, in fact, as Mr Bel has just said, does not usually occupy media headlines, only in a few months of August, and is therefore not the subject of political quarrels, despite the pain that usually accompanies families who have suffered the loss of a loved one for this reason. We are talking about drowning disaster, which in my land, the Canary Islands - in fact, is the autonomous community of the state that has the largest coastline, 1683 kilometers - is the first cause of death for this cause, doubling even the number of deaths due to traffic accidents. However, in the rest of the State, as other speakers have already said, obviously with more incidence in coastal areas, but also with deaths in inland areas in swamps, rivers, pools and lakes, the data are also very hard. According to the Spanish Federation of Rescue and Rescue, as of September 15 of this year the percentages of drowned people had risen in relation to 2018 by 23%. The causes of these accidents are known, have been studied and clearly pointed out not only by this federation, but by various groups that have put on the role the main causes that motivate it, and clearly point out the measures to be taken to avoid it. For example, four out of every ten beaches in our country lack rescue personnel, and that is what we are an eminently tourist destination. Therefore, in assessing the causes, I believe that what is now at stake is that all the vast legislation we have on this subject maximizes the preventive potential in these types of accidents in order to be able to put an end to the hundreds of deaths that our country suffers annually. We will vote yes to this motion in the terms expressed by Mr Quevedo, the proposer, also aware of the essential coordination of public bodies, be they autonomous governments, municipalities, cabildos or the Government of Spain - it was just missing! - together with the necessary involvement not only of the Ministry of Health, but cross-cutting of other ministries. But, as some group has done before me, we did not want to miss the opportunity without speaking briefly of other human beings who also die from drowning on our shores, mainly on the shores of my land, and yet there is no official record of them. I am talking about the hundreds of people, men, women, boys and girls, who die in their attempt to reach our shores with the sole and legitimate interest in seeking a dignified life project that they do not achieve in their places of origin for the reasons that you all know and that in pursuit of that, I repeat, legitimate objective put at stake the only thing they have to look for it, which is their life. We demand for them and for them that resources also be provided to Salvamento Marítimo, to the forces and bodies of State security in charge of their rescue at sea and to the Integrated System of External Surveillance, because it is no longer a shame to the world that the Spanish State, fulfilling its role as the southern border of Europe, allows the waters that separate the Canary Islands from Africa, from continental Africa, to become a cemetery of oblivion. We demand that the lives of migrants count and, therefore, be included in the calculation of drowning deaths in Spain and that, as we would do with the rest of the victims of this fatality, action be taken in this regard by providing the means necessary to prevent and preserve their lives. Their rights are our obligation. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u186	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Rodríguez Almeida has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u187	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Quevedo, first of all, let me congratulate you on bringing today an initiative with a national vision, for all of Spain. [[Applauds]] We are pleased to see how the Canarian nationalists have also understood that unity is a greater good than division. As you know, from the VOX Parliamentary Group we have been fighting nationalisms that have been trying to break Spain for decades and generating hatred and inequality among Spanish people because of the territory in which they live. For this reason, thank you very much, Your Honor. His motion pursues a good end, avoiding deaths in water spaces, in coasts, pools, swamps, lakes and rivers. We join the recognition of the Canary Islands platform 1500 km from Costa, led by Grancanario Sebastián Quintana: there is no doubt that his work has saved many lives. Every death is a drama, especially when we talk about accidental deaths that could be avoided through preventive measures, such as the six you propose and which our parliamentary group values as good. A number of amendments have been tabled concerning a wide range of aspects, whether it is a matter of public health, whether the autonomous communities should be able to coordinate the Spanish observatory, the training of rescue workers, etc. Once we have the text of the transaction they have announced, we will be able to assess whether we maintain support for this initiative. On the other hand, we have seen and heard in this parliamentary seat how the Minister of Health on 29 September, in response to her urgent inquiry, said that in order to respond to her initiative - I read literally - she proposed to do so from different areas, at international, national and autonomous and local level. Both the minister and you, Mr Quevedo, have made special mention of the Canary Islands. However, both in the text of your motion and in the interventions made by the Minister of Health and yourself there has been a surprising omission, an omission that cries to heaven, that of the figures, when in 2020 there were 343 deaths and in what we have been doing for the year, 786. They are data that multiply by more than ten the number of dead who have motivated their initiative, and correspond to the number of illegal immigrants who died because of drowning because of the business of the illegal immigration mafias that you encourage from New Canarias with PSOE and Podemos in the socialcommunist quadripartite of President Torres in the Canary Islands and Madrid with your support to President Sánchez. Mr Quevedo, illegal immigration is the main cause of drowning in the Canary Islands. You show concern and interest for 43 Spaniards and tourists who died of drowning in beaches and pools in the Canary Islands, but you ignore the 343 of last year 2020 and the 786 illegal immigrants who have died drowning trying to get to the Canary Islands as far as the year 2021 goes. Don't the lives of illegal immigrants deserve to be lived? Are there first and second-class deaths? How dare you mention, as the spokesman for the Socialist Parliamentary Group and also the spokesman for the United Nations, those who have died from a mafia business that is being encouraged and promoted by the Government of Spain? [[Applauds]] Neither the Canary Islands government in this House nor the Government of Spain say anything about this humanitarian drama of illegal immigration, with dimensions that ridicule the initiative it presents today. It seems that immigrants, those they claim to defend or protect, really have nothing to worry about. Where are the initiatives to end illegal immigration, Mr Quevedo? Don't they want to end the business of illegal immigration mafias and NGOs, which are their necessary co-operators? Ladies and gentlemen of the left, where are your initiatives? From VOX we will continue to highlight the very serious responsibility they assume by encouraging illegal immigration and concealing its very serious consequences. I hope, Mr Quevedo, that, just as nationalist sectarianism has abandoned this initiative, they will soon, together with those of us who defend common sense, fight the mafias of illegal immigration, which so many lives have reaped and so much damage is causing all the canaries. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u188	Mr Quevedo Iturbe, do you accept any of the amendments tabled?
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u189	We maintain the compromise amendment that I defended in the rostrum.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u190	Thank you so much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] - the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress, on the proposal made by the Government to eliminate THE EXTRAORDINARY BENEFIT FOR AUTONOMS WITH LOSS REVENUE BY THE ACTIVITY COMMITTEE. [[File number 173/000099]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u191	We continue with the motion resulting from the urgent interpellation of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress on the proposal made by the Government to eliminate the extraordinary benefit for self-employed persons with low income for cessation of activity. For the author group of the initiative and for the defence of the motion, Mr Ortiz Galván has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u192	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I was very keen to speak in this plenary with this motion in defence of the self-employed for two reasons: firstly, because we believe that in every plenary in this House we must support the self-employed, as we always do in the People's Group. It is the typical phrase, but it is also the pure reality: it is the autonomous who, raising the blinds of their business every morning, raise our country. Self-employed, SMEs account for 99% of the productive fabric, more than 70% of our country's employment, and generate four million jobs. To them we defend in this motion a set of measures that I will then put forward. And the second reason I wanted to intervene on this point was to disassemble the lies of the government of Pedro Sánchez and his continued ill-treatment of the self-employed, in the face of the propaganda put forward by Minister Escriva in the interpellation of my colleague Javier Bas in the past plenary. Minister Escriva said that in this crisis, not a single job of self-employed people has been lost and that we have more self-employed members of Social Security than ever before. How can the Minister write this, when we have 226 000 self-employed persons who are out of work, 226 000 self-employed persons who, in order to receive aid, the Government requires that they be discharged from social security even if they do not have any activity? We do not know, ladies and gentlemen, whether there are more autonomous people in Spain, what we do know from the People's Parliamentary Group is that the autonomous people in Spain today are poorer with the government of Pedro Sánchez. But Minister Escrivá's appearance gave for more. It said, without being colored, that the autonomous communities governed by the People's Party, such as Madrid and Andalusia, had not helped the autonomous in the face of the health pandemic. Mr Escrivá, Socialist ladies and gentlemen, Madrid helped with the most important, with freedom, allowing the self-employed to work, in the face of the limitation of their government's rights that the Constitutional Court has dismantled. And with regard to Andalusia, an important fact: if we add all the aid that the Andalusian Board has transferred to the autonomous, they add up more than that of the government itself, which was not going to leave anyone behind. The truth is that Minister Escrivá was not at his best late, because he also assumed that he had reached five agreements with the associations of self-employed people. It presumes to reach agreements on something as logical as the cessation of activity, but it was forgotten, for example, that the last agreement was reached at the last minute before the Council of Ministers and that at the last hour, when the unions announced the pre-agreement with the ERTE, the CEO had to deny the agreement since no agreement had been reached in favour of the self-employed with the cessation of activity. Thanks to pressure from the autonomous organizations and this party, the Government had once again had to rectify. And with regard to the agreement for the self-employed to contribute to real income, nothing is known. We fear the worst and the self-governing organizations too. All of Spain knows this, this government is not reliable. But they do not believe that Minister Escrivá's intervention was there. He had a glorious afternoon, sown with lies, with fictitious data, taking out his chest saying that he had transferred 11 billion euros to the autonomous. How can respect be disregarded in this way, Mr Escrivá, Socialists, who stood up with your intervention? The Government of Europe which has granted the least aid to the self-employed affected by the pandemic has been the Government of Pedro Sánchez. According to the INE, the productive fabric has lost in Spain 35 billion euros; the State, in addition to all the aid, has delivered 70 billion euros. For example, Germany, for every 100 euros that has lost its autonomy, has helped with 75 euros, while in Spain with 20. Stop breast-feeding, Mr Escrivá and Socialist ladies and gentlemen: the only ones who have been caught are the self-employed. When they decide to adopt a real decree with direct aid to self-employed people, they do so with such requirements that they will not reach even 8% of the self-employed in this country, as all the autonomous communities, whatever their political colour, are showing. Another minister in another country would have stopped; in Spain his party applauds him, and standing up. In the face of this, the proposals we are defending from the People's Group, which are widely demanded by the self-employed. We call for your vote in this House, ladies and gentlemen, to promote the recovery of the most vulnerable self-employed, avoiding short-term policies and adopting new effective and realistic measures within the social dialogue that will enable self-employed people to move forward and recover with the greatest urgency from the economic consequences of the pandemic. We ask you to vote in this House, ladies and gentlemen, to end the ambiguity in force in Royal Decree 5/2021 and to take the necessary measures to reach all the self-employed, not just 8%, as is happening. We also ask for your vote to implement the measures adopted in the no-law proposal adopted in March in the Committee on Labour and Social Security so that self-employed workers who because of the pandemic lack income, whether or not they are beneficiaries of the cessation benefit, are exempted from the payment of the social security contribution; you know what this party stands for: zero income, zero income. And we ask for something very important, special measures for self-employed workers who are affected in La Palma by the eruption of the volcano, such as the six-month extension of the flat rate of self-employed persons, the postponement of the payment of tax obligations in the third and fourth quarters of 2021 and in the first and second quarters of 2022 in twelve interest-free periods, as well as direct aid and, of course, ICO loans for the rehabilitation and reconstruction of professional, commercial, industrial, livestock, etc. Ladies and gentlemen, in Spain there are only two projects with real options to govern: the one representing Pedro Sánchez, which translates into poorer self-employed people, a rise in taxes, a rise in the bill for electricity by 200 % and a rise in diesel, or the one representing Pablo Casado, in favour of freedom and other support measures for self-employed people, as we advocate in this motion for an interpellation, for which I ask you to vote in favour on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u193	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] In defence of the amendment tabled by the VOX Group, Mrs Cañizares Pacheco has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u194	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Throughout this parliamentary term, we in the VOX Parliamentary Group have defended the autonomous without half ink, everyone, regardless of their activity and where they develop it. Therefore, any initiative proposing effective measures to prevent the destruction of the Spanish business fabric will be supported. The Government, ladies and gentlemen, has seriously harmed self-employed workers by imposing restrictions on their activity through a declared unconstitutional state of alarm thanks to VOX's appeal. Despite our willingness to support the self-employed, in analysing their initiative in relation to the extraordinary termination benefit, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, we see that it does not bring anything new, because it has been the self-employed themselves who have already reached an agreement with the Government to extend these benefits until February. We therefore hoped that the Government would find on its initiative a requirement for some other type of extraordinary benefit, such as compensation for damages caused by being forced to close its business or to interrupt the normal performance of professional and commercial activities, all of which could be compensated in accordance with our legal system. But, sadly, we see no glimpse of these proposals, even though VOX has paved the way for them after our first resort of unconstitutionality against the state of alarm has prospered. On the other hand, they deal with the granting of direct aid to undertakings and self-employed persons governed by the Royal Decrees 5/2001 and 6/2021, which are already managed by the Autonomous Communities themselves and which are obliged to pay cash and to pay to self-employed persons. At this point I must remind you that you govern several autonomous communities, among other things thanks to VOX's votes; autonomous communities in which you have decided in a heterogeneous way without asking us which autonomous communities are going to receive these aids and which are not. [[Applauds]] I am not going to give lessons to the People's Party, a party that has ruled Spain, which governs several autonomous communities and more than 2500 municipalities, but I will tell you that you are limited to bringing in low-level initiatives such as this, which are not typical of the main party of the theoretical opposition. Thus, in this initiative they urge the Government to work. But you still don't know them? To end the ambiguity of your rules. Do you not know that ambiguity is the only real strategy of this government? Moreover, ladies and gentlemen of the PP, while you ask to eliminate ambiguities from Sánchez in his royal decree of aid, in the autonomous communities where you govern the following happens: in Galicia the aid can only be used to pay debt to suppliers, and exclude the same activities as the Government of Sánchez in its royal decree, that is, hairdressers, self-schools, aesthetic centers, souvenirs, are faithful followers of the norm PSOE-Possos; in Castilla and León also leave out these activities; in Andalusia it includes hairdressers, but they continue to limit what can be paid and what cannot, and in Madrid they adopt another modality, it seems that something more beneficial. So, what do you do where you govern, ladies and gentlemen of the PP, discriminate between first and second autonomous, depending on your activity and where you develop it? That, I'm sorry to tell you, is not defending the self-employed. [[Applauds]] This is the second time that from this court he invited to preach with the example, to be consistent with his words. If you really think, as we say in VOX, that the management of Sánchez's government is bad, do not follow your steps and stop implementing PSOE-Podemos policies where they govern. The VOX Parliamentary Group has put forward numerous initiatives proposing that aid to self-employed people should be a real compensation for the reduction in income caused by the partial or total closure of establishments and extend such aid to all activities, without exclusion. The government rule you are replying to in Galicia has been highly criticized by the self-employed, as they consider the aid to be insufficient and the complexity of the procedures to be too complex to be able to access them, which has led to less than 8% of them end up applying for such aid. Our amendment proposes the simplification of the aid system, establishing as the only parameter the reduction of turnover or volume of operations compared to 2019, extending its validity until the end of 2021. Thus, we eliminate difficulties for many self-employed people who, aside from their expenses, have not entered a euro for denying them the government their right to work as tour guides, photographers, physiotherapists, teachers, etc. Our proposal is the German model, a simple and flexible system with the ability to adapt to the evolution of the billing of each business. In short, pragmatism and agility, elements that lack the efficient administrative machinery led by the Socialcommunist Government and its 17 autonomous replicas. Thank you. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u195	Thank you. Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor on behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u196	Thank you very much, Mr President. I agree with the Group of the European People's Party in its approach to reactivating the sector of self-employed workers, one of the key elements for the maintenance and creation of employment in Spain, with the measures contained in this motion, which resulted from an inquiry by Mr Bas Corugeira to the Minister for Social Security. By the way, taking advantage of the Galician origin of the questioner and the theme of autonomous people, they will allow me to remember a former popular senator by Pontevedra, Don Álvaro Someso Salvadores, a merchant who always brought to the fore and with irreducible tenacity his status as autonomous worker to demand progress and improvements for the collective of which he was president in Galicia. From this rostrum of Congress I greet the veteran fighter for the cause of the Spanish autonomous, for whom he managed, from the Upper House and thanks to his insistence on the then government of José María Aznar, not a few improvements. Ladies and gentlemen, the scourge to the national economy as a consequence of the COVID-19 pandemic has had one of its most negative impacts among the self-employed and uniquely among those who have had to cease their activity and consequently have dramatically lost their income, dragging themselves into vital situations of great uncertainty and anguish. There are estimates that bring the percentage of self-employed people who have not recovered pre-pandemic income to more than 65%, estimates that one in three is below half; hence, in order to alleviate these situations, all administrations must remain available in order to ensure that appropriate aid and aid formulas are applied diligently. In this sense, he called on the Sánchez government to be more sensitive and less propaganda when it makes assessments of unjustified self-bomb on the evolution of the labour market, because, with the data of the last week and listening to ministers and spokespersons, it seems that we have entered the path of recovery of employment, when the harsh reality is that Spain is today far from the average of the countries of the European Union. In fact, there are no fewer than 226 000 self-employed persons who are receiving the cessation benefit, and it remains to be seen how unemployment in the sector evolves after the end of the summer period. Ladies and gentlemen, the government's agreement with representatives of the self-employed to extend the ERTE until 28 February has virtually unchanged its current scheme of protection, except for the extraordinary low-income benefit which is complicated by access to aid after raising from 50 to 75 % the drop in income which must be credited and places the maximum yield at 75 % of the inter-branch minimum wage. It should be recalled that the amount of this aid is fixed at 50 % of the minimum base and therefore it is necessary to urge the Government to strive for dialogue and to eliminate, in favour of the self-employed, the misunderstandings arising from the insufficient Royal Decree-Law 5/2021, which marginalizes thousands of self-employed persons with family businesses and whose application for the allocation of aid comes very late, if it comes. There are thousands of beneficiaries still waiting for aid after being forced to face a tidal wave of bureaucracy and administrative demands to resolve procedures, which in the case of many small self-employed people has been suffocated to regain their employment. It is, therefore, very relevant the section of the initiative which claims that the direct aid provided for in the regulations validated in the Congress should reach the self-employed who really need it as soon as possible. There is another measure as necessary as the others, which has been defended by Mr Ortiz Galván and which has been in force since 11 March, when a very good non-law proposal was adopted in the Committee on Labour and Social Security, which I voted in favour, to exempt from the payment of the social security contribution to all those self-employed who have no income, which was presented by the People's Group, to which it is worth recognizing a special interest in the defence of self-employed workers, which is exactly the opposite of what the Government is doing, which circumvents the fulfilment of the mandates to this House. Finally, as has been reiterated throughout this plenary session, we support the measures to tackle the tragedy on the Canary Island of La Palma due to the catastrophic effects of the volcanic eruption of the Old Summit which, more than three weeks later, continues to seriously affect socio-economic activity and which will leave enormous damage that will require much effort and resources to correct them. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u197	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Barandiaran Benito has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u198	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. President, thank you very much. I will be brief, because the truth is that we think that this little or nothing initiative can help to improve the situation of self-employed workers in this country. Moreover, at this moment it seems even inappropriate, because to present it just on the eve of the validation of the Royal Decree-Law 18/2021, which precisely has - among others - different measures directed in several of its precepts to the collective of self-employed workers, is not the right thing. Only by recalling them: Article 8 of the Royal Decree-Law, which is supposed to be dealt with tomorrow and which we may validate, contribution exemptions for self-employed persons for cessation of activity; Articles 9 and 11, extra allowance for cessation of activity for self-employed persons; Article 10, provision compatible with self-employment; Article 12, extra allowance for cessation of activity for seasonal self-employed persons. One may have the impression that it is little or insufficient, but at least it is measures that are already in the system and that are intended to be implemented. Moreover, the motion itself is aware of this, because it collects its existence and also introduces several assessments on which we will say that with some we can agree on something and with others not. It speaks of the motion for a quotation for real income, however, we understand that with it the People's Party incurs a tremendous contradiction, at least with the recommendation that was adopted in the Toledo Pact and with the position of the PP precisely on this same issue. He says that going to the aid system is faracious, and we share it, but it is not only for the self-employed, but it is also for all workers and businesses. We do not share the elimination of social quotas as a general policy and as an exceptional regime which does not apply to the rest of the workers either. Pay for road traffic? It is a different debate in which not only the self-employed are concerned and, moreover, we do not share it either. There are therefore a number of issues on which we will not agree, although on others we may agree. We share that recovery measures must be offered and envisaged in another temporary scenario, with greater certainty and certainty, so that they can make the right decisions without the uncertainty caused by the limited time-frames that have taken place with each real aid decree-law. We share the view that it is necessary to speed up aid under Royal Decree-Law 5/2021, because payments of fixed costs, to suppliers or to debt do not wait. We do not currently share the absolute exemption from social security contributions, as has been said, because we believe that treatment should be shared between self-employed people, businesses and workers in general; we have already said so. As for the measures for the workers in La Palma, it is not that we disagree - we would completely agree - but, with all due respect, they do not seem appropriate to us; because it is inappropriate and somewhat demagogic to raise these measures just now, when the absolute effects are not yet known and when possibly we will all share initiatives in this regard. That is why we cannot share this initiative, and we are not voting in favour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u199	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Muñoz Vidal has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u200	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have to give reason to the spokesman for the People's Parliamentary Group. It is true that in the Community of Andalusia, which we jointly govern, aid and support for employment and the self-employed have been far superior to those of the central government, thanks to the councilwoman of Citizens Rocío Blanco. And I am wrong to say this, but it is now customary to meet with initiatives of the People's Parliamentary Group such as this motion which, although it had very high pretensions, is lowered to very generic terms, because nothing left in the explanatory part of the motion refers to the issue that motivates it, which was the suppression of the extraordinary benefit for self-employed persons by ceasing activity. It has already been extended, an agreement has already been reached. His lordships of the People's Parliamentary Group take advantage of everything, even the floors. [[Laughter]] I must say that the text is a set of measures without order or concert, which mixes issues of different nature, however much you try to look for the guiding thread of the autonomous. On the one hand, you are putting in place genuine support measures for the self-employed; on the other hand, you are putting in place the reform of Royal Decree-Law 5/2021 of direct aid, and, finally, you are putting in place the aid for the eruption of the volcano of La Palma. These are certainly very important issues which alone deserve debate and treatment, and it does not seem reasonable to discuss them jointly. On the one hand, the autonomous. The only really probative element of his initiative is the exemption from the payment of the quota to those who lack income. Moreover, the motion alone would make sense now only with this point. It is a proposal not only reasonable in a context of crisis, but of justice. Just as progress should be made in a consensual manner with representatives of the sector towards a model where the contribution depends on the level of rising income, it is more important if it can be done downwards. Of course the problem has this government, because it loves to raise taxes, but when it comes to lowering them it costs more. On the other hand, you include here the umpteenth debate on the implementation of the measures of Royal Decree-Law 5/2021, which was launched with these direct aids; we continue to debate precisely because that mechanism and its implementation have been a disaster because they do not reach the autonomous and the companies to which they had to reach. The motion of the People's Parliamentary Group talks about ending the current ambiguity. Yes, indeed, but I wish the problem of this royal decree was only the ambiguity in force, because at least ambiguity has a reasonable margin of interpretation. The problem of this royal decree is its terrible design, as my parliamentary group - and I as a spokesman - defended in this House and was personally passed on to the Minister for Economic Affairs at the time, because, on the one hand, it pre-selects the sectors which may be eligible for aid, rather than using a simple and fair criterion which would be that of falling billing. On the other hand, its terrible design leaves in the hands of the autonomous communities the management of the aid, which leads to apply totally different criteria in one territory and another. That is why we in Andalusia have been able to provide more aid than the central government itself. In addition, leaving the management in the hands of the autonomous communities overloads the autonomous administrations with an enormous bureaucratic task that is often impossible to assume. [[The lady]] And, third, the above-mentioned ambiguity of the rule that you cite in your initiative, the Government resolves it with explanatory notes that the only thing they do is to compensate for legal burdens and give more legal uncertainty. Finally, aid to workers in La Palma. From here we send our warm embrace and express our appreciation to all palm trees and palm trees.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u201	Mrs. Muñoz, you must finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u202	I'm done, yes, Madam President. It is a tremendous disgrace and in situations like this it must be supporting the central government and all the groups in this House. However, we will vote in favour of your initiative. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u203	Thank you very much, Mrs. Muñoz. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. García. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Boadella Esteve has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u204	Thank you very much, President. Good morning. The motion on the issue of self-government is always recurring and the content of the text talks about short-term policies and the last minute. We have commented more than once that these successive extensions to the measures do not in any case help legal certainty or the certainty that people who are pulling the country forward and who are generating jobs need. But the motion does not stop coming out of this short-term view to the point, as pointed out earlier, that in the final part it incorporates the misfortune that we all regret related to the eruption of the volcano and, therefore, also tries to bring to its mill all the short-term measures that the motion repeats. When everyone talks about self-government, the big question is what measures there is and what is the cross-cutting plan in this area. In PeCAT we have always said that the self-employed must be regarded. Many times there are people who start an economic activity because it's their purpose or it's their idea, but it's also true that public administrations tell people: When you run out of work, join, self-employment, be an entrepreneur. Therefore, it is also a way out that the public administrations present to all those who remain unemployed. The autonomous suffers difficulties and we have to recognize it here, in the forum of Congress, for it to be known, but he is a person who, even with all these difficulties, ends up generating economic activity and even jobs, that is, he generates occupation; and that is not why there is a miracle that until four days ago he was an autonomous and deserved all our protection and, at the time he hires two, three or four people, he is already an entrepreneur and we have to see him with other eyes. Neither self-employed nor entrepreneurs are bad in themselves. We must therefore try to avoid those debates. In this area, as we said, we deserve our full consideration both the self-employed and the people who equate themselves to them, as well as the mutualists, who have a special regime, the alternative regime to the RETA, and those who also affect many of the measures we propose. And what do we propose in this area? Well, tax measures. It has been a long time and no one seems to remember the 10% reduction in VAT in hairdressers and beauty centres, the 25 to 20 % reduction in corporation tax or measures in the field of COVID, such as the reduction in contributions, the reductions when children were confined and could not go to school or one that I believe is even more necessary than ever, the question of maintaining employment. The current configuration of job maintenance through EVRE measures derived from COVID puts the future viability of many companies at risk. There are companies that are not going to be able to go back to pre-pandemic situations and this regulation of job maintenance is part of our objectives. It must be configured in a way other than as proposed. Similarly, it is necessary to reconfigure in another way the ICOs or the anti-morosity law, another of the proposals of the PDECAT. These measures do help the self-employed, and we must therefore bet on all of them. I say this because, after all, the drama of this story is that few autonomous people will be able to see this debate taking place here today; some because they will be working and others because they are looking for how to work and how to generate income. Therefore, either it is assumed that the self-employed have a reality of their own, that they do not have macro-structures and that they need to do a lot of work themselves and that things are made easy for them; either they are trusted and seen not as people willing to cheat, but as people who are willing to lift the blind every day, and they are given direct help that they can manage - if they are able to manage their business, they are sure that they can also manage the aid they receive - or 'this whole question of self-employed people is conceived from that perspective or weak favor is done with so many debates and so many proposals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u205	Thank you very much, Mr Boadella. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, I have the floor, Mrs López Domínguez.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u206	Thank you, President. Good morning, deputies. The Confederal Parliamentary Group of the Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal will not support the motion put forward by the People's Parliamentary Group. The reasons are simple: the content of the motion does not add any substance to the measures to be taken by the executive in the area of self-employment and, moreover, it shows once again that the objective of the People's Party is only to try to hinder the work of the coalition government in order to continue to support the usual, the great fortunes and the great companies. I start with the first of the reasons. As I mentioned, this motion does not bring anything. As you know - it is known and, if not, you can consult it on the web - the Council of Ministers of 28 September agreed to extend the aid for the autonomous and autonomous and adopted new measures to protect companies from the eruption of the Old Summit volcano in the Canary Islands. These measures have indeed been agreed through social dialogue with the main self-governing associations. These measures include exemptions for the next four months from social security contributions for all self-employed workers who have been protected in the previous period. It is also approved that the special suspension allowance should continue for those self-employed persons with a temporary suspension of their entire activity. The activity-compatible benefit is also maintained for those workers who meet the three requirements set out in the regulations and for those who do not comply with the special benefit, as stated to them. The seasonal self-employed benefit is also maintained and specific aid was approved for the self-employed affected by the eruption of the Old Summit Volcano in La Palma. I take this opportunity to join in the expressions of affection and solidarity already expressed by my colleagues, your ladies and gentlemen, to the inhabitants of La Palma. I would also like to recall that the Ministry of Labour and Social Economy recently announced that it will devote more than 10 million dollars to promoting self-employment, the social economy and corporate social responsibility. Allow me to stop at this point because, while it is true that the autonomous and autonomous of our country need the public authorities to be there and not to leave them behind, it is also necessary for all co-operatives trying to carry out a cooperative so that the benefit can be reversed in society and not in their private pockets. They too have been affected by this crisis and have often been unable to move forward, so our full solidarity with these co-operatives. I now come to provide evidence on the second of my statements: that the PP's goal is not to achieve welfare for the self-employed, but to try to stifle the coalition government's work to continue supporting big fortunes and big companies. The PP states that the government is responsible for the rise of light, but it seems to me that it is already known and even repeated - although I say it again - that, if there is a responsible for the rise of light, this is the People's Party, its privatizations and the leaders who - if I may say so - are sucking the boat on the boards of directors. [[Mr. Ortiz Galván makes negative gestures]] It is clear, ladies and gentlemen, that the commitment of the People's Party is not with the autonomous but with the large companies. Let us review only some of the positions recently defended by the People's Parliamentary Group in the legislation adopted by this House and the coalition government. We see how the PP is opposed to touching the profits of large companies so that we see citizens down on the bills of light. The PP opposes the Tobin rate, the digital services tax and the regulation of advertising of bookmakers. The PP opposes the regulation of the rent price of the properties of the big forks, which we all know who they are. It opposes the Rider Law, the regulation of VTCs, to put a stop to intensive livestock farming. It is clear, ladies and gentlemen, that the aim of the PP is not to protect small self-employed people, but large enterprises. Remember, too, that in 2014, when the People's Party ruled, there was the highest rate of corporate destruction, ranking fourth in the OECD with absolute data. That's all, ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u207	Thank you very much, Mrs. Lopez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, I have the floor, Mrs Peña Camarero.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u208	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I believe that the People's Parliamentary Group was finally going to bring a proposal to alleviate the daily life and reality of our country's autonomous people, but no. Behind his superlative rhetoric there's nothing, nothing. You self-employed people care about a curse and are able to go against the interests of thousands of self-employed workers just by criticizing the government of Pedro Sánchez. Because yes, because you do not know how to do anything else, because you continue to deny reality and because you have never faced from the government any way out of the real problems of the autonomous, nor the ordinary - access to finance, lateness, second chance - nor the extraordinary, as we have experienced in recent months. Although perhaps the worst is not what they say, but what they intend to achieve. The People's Parliamentary Group wants this proposal to ensure that the social dialogue with the associations of self-employed persons is not valid and to stimulate the consensus reached in five agreements for the protection of self-employed persons. Ladies and gentlemen, the data are lives, they are tangible realities: one and a half million special benefits are put in place; the benefits compatible with the activity continue today, up to 85,000; the extraordinary benefits continue today for those who do not meet the requirements for access to this cessation, 140 000; the benefit for seasonal self-employed people is maintained today; they have all been able to exempt themselves from the quota payment, and so we will arrive with this government at least until next March 2022. And you think this is wrong? Obviously, because you're more than doing nothing. Not one euro invested in self-government when we lost 50,000 self-government with your government in a quarter. They do nothing now, as in my land, Castile and León, where the self-employed still do not receive a single euro of the 163 million promised; promised, because they only receive today the help of the Government of Spain, exactly as in Andalusia. You get your chest out here today, but Andalusia has received 11 billion from the Government of Spain and not even 30% has been set up to help SMEs and entrepreneurs. [[Applauds]] Therefore, to do nothing is the People's Party; to do nothing and to deceive, because let us not forget that at the beginning of this crisis you deceived dozens of autonomous people, who believed them when they said that the government's aid was not going to serve anything. These self-employed people have been discharged and, after that, they have had a great deal of difficulty in recovering their status and obtaining the generous and extensive aid that this Government has made available to them. To cheat, yes, because to work a little bit. Self-employed people want less praise and more solutions. It was the PSOE that launched the Statute for Self-Employment in 2007 and the PSOE created the system for the protection of cessation of activity in 2010. It was Magdalena Valerio who launched the compulsory coverage of all contingencies and it is this government that created the extraordinary benefit by making available, yes, 11 billion euros; 7500 of them in direct aid, which are the only ones that have reached the SMEs and the self-employed in this country. [[Applauds]] By the way, today the European Commission - it is not my data or written here by anyone - has just declared that Spain is the country of the whole European Union that has allocated the most aid to its citizens according to GDP, 7.3%. It is therefore clear that you are breaking up, you are breaking up - and you say so also in the argumentation - the four years of work that you have managed to adopt twenty recommendations from the report for pension reform which speak - of course, of course - of the contribution for self-employed people for real income and of the transition to a more just and modern system where it is contributed on the basis of real income, where self-employed people have better social protection and, above all, that it eliminates the insecurity with regard to the future pensions of this group. Today in this country two thirds of the self-employed are paying more than their share, and in that we are the socialists, to approach it once and for all. My question is, where's the PP? Where's the right of this country? Falsehoods not only oppose the truth, but often contradict one another. In today's proposal the Popular Party's discontrol marks us even a complex situation for the neighbors who are having such a bad time in La Palma. They're talking about situations to exonerate things that they then want to postpone. If there is no debt, there is nothing to postpone. They are contradicting each other in their own proposal. And they are late, because this government has already launched a line of more than 213 million euros for the economic and social reconstruction on the island of La Palma, exemptions from the IBI and the IRPF, reductions in the IAE and the fees, reduction of the module in the direct estimate of the IRPF and postponement of tax debts; absolutely everything that is possible. [[Applauds]] You, the People's Party, when you could from the government denied the autonomous of this country free justice, imposed abusive interests, raised VAT from hairdressers and even from funeral pumps. That's the People's Party. You saved the banks, but you sank the self-employed, and now you want to sink everything that concertation, social dialogue and consensus have achieved for the self-employed in this country and their families, but the Socialist Party will not allow it. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u209	Thank you very much, Mrs Peña. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Ortiz, do you accept your group's amendment?
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u210	Yes, we accept it.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u211	Thank you very much. The motion shall be put to the vote in accordance with the wording of the amendment tabled. - the VOX Parliamentary Group, on the measures to be adopted by the Government, through the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, European Union and Cooperation, to ensure the fulfilment of the principle of legality in external policy. [[File number 173/000100]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u212	We continue with the motion of urgent inquiry by the VOX Parliamentary Group on the measures to be taken by the Government through the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, European Union and Cooperation to ensure compliance with the principle of legality in foreign policy. For the author group of the initiative and for the defence of the motion, Mr Sánchez García has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u213	With all due respect, Madam President. Allow me first of all to observe that today the Vice-President, acting as President, has once again agreed to slander a Member of the VOX Parliamentary Group and a qualified member of that party without calling the order, of course, the slanderer, who was, of course, a minister. [[applause]] Indeed, I do not know whether we should give up this motion after listening this morning to the Vice-President and Minister, Mrs Calviño, who said that the Government should not be criticized and that the institutions should be respected, including the Government. In accordance with this claim, I believe that it is so undemocratic and if we were there, I do not know what we would do here, Madam President and Members; of course, we would be called, as I say, to give up defending this motion. However, we are not going to, because, of course, we are not going to follow the game to Mrs Calviño and her extravagant wishes for her not to be criticized. He must hardly go to the government in the polls, in the prospective they handle, when it is allowed to make these kind of pastoral exhortations a little niño, but with little political foundation in a democracy. This motion is the cause of an urgent inquiry by the Government into whether it would take action or act in accordance with the principle of legality in its external action. The principle of legality recognized in article 9.3 of the Constitution and that article 103.1 applies to the Administration, which consists of full submission to the law and to the law of the Administration, is not a principle nor a full submission to the law and to the Constitution that is to the liking of the Government. Moreover, the Government systematically, in the domestic order, attacks legality and the Constitution. I'm not saying it here as a rhetorical argument, just stick to the facts. I note the following facts: a judgment is partially declared unconstitutional by the Decree which declared the first state of alarm; three judgements of the same Constitutional Court which declares the unconstitutionality of three decrees laws for abuse of this legislative figure, for having invoked the extraordinary and urgent necessity without foundation, and lastly, a judgement of the Constitutional Court granting amparo before a resolution of the Congress - Congress constituted with the majority that directs it, which is the majority of the government coalition -, amparo against certain restrictive decisions of control of the Government during certain initial periods of the state of alarm. Then, it is very worrying and irritating evidence that the Government is not in love with the Constitution or the law, as such decisions of such high court manifest itself, not to mention the initiative on the reform of the election of the members of the General Council of the Judiciary, which has had to be repressed by the European Commission itself as contrary to the principle of the independence of judges and, therefore, equally contrary to the principles of the European Union. In the debate held on 28 September last on the question raised by this motion, four points were raised by this group in which the Government's disregard for legality in its external action was highlighted. It would be a fantasy of childish illusion on our part to think that if the Government attacks legality and the Constitution in the internal order it will observe towards the Constitution and the laws a reverential respect in its external action. This has no basis whatsoever. Therefore, these four facts that I will now mention perfectly illustrate that attack, which is also in its external action. First of all, there's Brahim Ghali's business. It is well known that Mr Ghali entered Spain without any control of a border travel certificate and registered as a patient in a hospital in Logroño with a false passport, all with the protection of the Spanish government authorities. This has led to the investigation of a case before Zaragoza's 7th Court of Inquiry, in which the former Minister of Foreign Affairs has already declared the case to be impugned. By the way, this disregard for legality continues when, as we have heard from the press - and there is even a video that has circulated on all media and on social networks - the former minister, Mrs González Laya, refuses to answer certain questions from the investigating judge, relying - she says - on a kind of memorandum or interpretative note of the Law on Official Secrets, which is not even published and has no value as a source of law. It is an absolute disregard for the law and a contempt for the judiciary that is intervening in this matter, as I say, in relation to a criminal complaint filed by the charges of cover-up, prevarication and documentary falsity. With regard to the matter of General Carvajal, also called 'El Pollo' Carvajal, it has not just been understood very well why this gentleman vanished from Spain and why he appeared because of an impelling initiative by the DEA before the Spanish authorities. What we do know is that Mr Carvajal, despite that disappearance, after having entered with a protection outside of any legal coverage of the governing authorities in Spain, now it turns out that it is provided to the judicial authority that investigates certain cases documentation about the illicit financing of Podemos, and who knows if of others! I'm not saying don't look at the PSOE; he looked directly at the PSOE, because they could be beneficiaries, either because of the contagion of those who have enjoyed it, who are the PSOE. [[laughter and applause]] On the matter of Bolivia, Idem, as far as possible this intervention by Spanish officials in the Spanish Embassy in La Paz is concerned to protect former members of the anti-democratic government of Mr Morales who had not been granted political asylum. There's no explanation. Nor can I stop referring to the last matter, the matter of whether the Minister said something completely uncertain - therefore false and therefore false - in his answer to the question of this group. He said the matter had been archived. Yes, it has been filed by an order of the Second Chamber of the Supreme Court, but that order has been appealed to the Constitutional Court for VOX, among other things because the order seriously errs when it says that a regulation...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u214	Mr. Sanchez, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u215	... of restrictive measures by the European Union is a political decision. It's a source of law. It will be disputable if the legal infringement, whatever it is, such as that of that regulation, is necessarily prevarication. Anyway, sir...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u216	Thank you very much, Mr Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u217	Madam President, it's over. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u218	As no amendments have been tabled to this initiative, we move on to position-setting. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, first of all, Mr Martínez Oblanca. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u219	Thank you very much, Madam President. What has happened to what has been referred to as the Gali case confirms that we have a Government installed in the submission, when not directly in the illegality. It was already known that it was already known in terms of the historical collection of judgments of the Constitutional Court, accrediting, at the request of the VOX Parliamentary Group, as its spokesman, Don José María Sánchez, has just recalled, the violation of the fundamental rights of the Spaniards on the occasion of the pandemic of the COVID-19 and also the unconstitutionality of other measures, such as those that came from rondón in the Commission of the National Center of Intelligence, CNI, to the lords Pablo Iglesias and Ivan Redondo, now both already outside the Executive, converted into media collaborators of postin and to the best postman. Ladies and gentlemen, with Brahim Gali, a fugitive accused of committing crimes against humanity and genocide, the Government of Pedro Sánchez acted with premeditation, relief, nightliness and impunity by giving shelter to the leader of the Frente Polisario and facilitating both his entry into the military air base of Zaragoza and his reception in a hospital in Logroño and his subsequent departure from Spain. The recent judicial spectacle of the former foreign minister, Ms. González Laya, investigated by the justice system, starring obscenely as a mockery of a Franco-born ministerial order to wander uncertainly and publish unknown, reveals the manners and the overthrow of the government. Hence the relevance of the two measures envisaged in this motion following an inquiry and, in a unique way, the need for the President of the Government to appear before this House in order to reveal here, in the Congress of Deputies, the details of the case that dragged Spain into a very serious diplomatic crisis with Morocco, ended with an invasion of the autonomous city of Ceuta and with the resolution of the National Court recriminating the actions, also illegal, of the Ministry of the Interior, whose holder is Mr Grande-Marlaska, in the return of minors. I will therefore vote in favour of these measures which the Government must take to comply with the principle of legality in foreign policy. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u220	Thank you, Mr. Martinez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Esteban Bravo has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u221	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am still surprised that the adalides of the integrity of the Spanish unity and the defence of their borders are playing with this matter by giving a blow to Morocco and the king of Morocco, who precisely opened the borders and threw a lot of boys, young people, to cross them. Having a country that is constantly straining and challenging these Spanish borders, including the Spanish power and positions, that this is done for a mere internal partisan interest, I insist, I am very surprised by these adalides of Spain. But it also seems to me that they are very alien to the geopolitical moment that is being lived, with a major conflict in North Africa and a gas supply crisis. If you think that these games of swords that are mounted here in this House cannot have any impact on international policy, including energy policy, it seems to me that you are still in Babia. Nothing more to say. We'll vote no. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u222	Thank you very much, Mr. Esteban. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Martínez Granados has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u223	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are debating a motion following an inquiry by the VOX Parliamentary Group, which sets out the situation that has been experienced in our country with the entry of the leader of the Frente Polisario, the main organisation representing the people of Western Sahara. This entry - the entry of Mr Gali - took place due to the deterioration of his health due to an infection with COVID-19. Although it was motivated by these humanitarian reasons, the controversy comes for another kind of reason and it is because Brahim Gali kept matters pending with Spanish justice. From the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, at the time, we already argued that it was needed for humanitarian reasons, that it could be done and that it should be done, but that it should have conditions. Mainly, let Gali respond to justice in our country for those outstanding matters. Moreover, this entry of the Saharan leader into our country seems not to have been carried out in accordance with the law, having presented a false passport in order to avoid border and security controls, as well as a possible judicial provision on his entry into Spanish territory from Algeria. This scandal is currently being investigated and is in the hands of the courts, which have ended up quoting former Minister Arantxa González Laya and her former chief of staff, Camilo Villarino, as investigated. If this were confirmed, I would assume that the Government would have allowed Brahim Gali to enter our country in an irregular way, something with which we do not agree, and if the President has to come to explain or the Foreign Minister, it seems good to us. But what this motion demands is that we condemn the welcome of Brahim Gali. I repeat, from Citizens, as a liberal party, we believe that in a rule of law and in compliance with international law, people with these kinds of problems must be benefited by humanitarian issues, but it is true that it must be done in compliance with the legal regulations. What we cannot lose sight of is that the commitment to international legality also obliges us to make sure that the political forces of our country and that this Government do not let go of the problems that the Spanish ex-colonia has, and that it also remains in a limbo because of the cowardice of successive governments, both of the People's Party and of the Socialist Party at the moment. We therefore continue to urge the Government to stop taking responsibility for Western Sahara and to promote, at European and international level, a new initiative to culminate in the decolonization process of that territory. The most recent judgments of the Court of Justice of the European Union, which recall that Morocco cannot take this territory as its own or its waters or natural resources, are yet another sign that this Government of Spain must face up to its responsibility - indeed, historic - which in more than forty years neither the People's Party nor the Socialist Party has wanted to carry out and have ignored during all these years. With our commitment and knowing that this issue is judicialized, we will always respect what is said from the courts. We will therefore abstain from this motion by VOX, because we do not condemn the entry of Brahim Gali, which became unique and exclusively on humanitarian grounds. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u224	Thank you very much, Mrs. Martínez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, I give the floor to Mrs Illamola Dausà.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u225	Good morning, thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of VOX, you say in your motion that Mr Gali did not pass the border controls or show his documentation when he arrived in Spain. I see that you are concerned that, as you say, European Union legislation was not respected when Mr Gali entered the Schengen territory. Sincerely, I love this concern that the law of the European Union is respected; I always respect the law of the European Union, in Junts per Catalunya we always respect the law of the European Union. But I'm surprised, we're surprised by this concern. We are surprised that you did not say anything when the Supreme Court or the Constitutional Court declared the Euros unsuspended orders to the deputies Puigdemont, Comín and Ponsati, and neither did you speak when the Supreme Court did not suspend the dispute against the Vice-President of the Generalitat, Oriol Junqueras. In both cases, the effects of a prejudicial question involving, because of its characteristics and as you know - do not tell me no, because that is so, Mr Sánchez - the suspension of the dispute which causes doubt and which the Court of Justice of the European Union does not resolve. [[Mr. Sánchez García makes negative gestures]] Until the Court of Justice of the European Union resolves a question referred for a preliminary ruling, the internal dispute shall be suspended. This is studied by all law students in all Spanish faculties and in the rest of the 27 countries of the European Union. Should not, therefore, in both cases respect the principle of legality which you defend? The characteristics and effects of the preliminary questions are part of the domestic law of the Kingdom of Spain, being the law of the European Union; they are also part of the law of Spain, because they derive from freely acquired international commitments, reports of United Nations bodies or resolutions of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, for example. Therefore, the question that arises from reading your motion and seeing your explanations is what legality you defend. Do you defend legality or defend its legality? It's a little different. You also say that Spain has to be perceived again as what it has always been, a reliable country. Frankly, I have told you in this Chamber and in committees on many occasions: it must always be preached by example. Therefore, how can Spain internationally be considered a reliable country if the State Advocate, on behalf of the Kingdom of Spain, informs the General Court of the European Union that Euros orders are suspended and then the judiciary, the Supreme Court, corroborated by the Constitutional Court, says they are not. What reliability are you talking about? Because music sounds to me like the Polish Constitutional Court ruling in which it does not admit the primacy of European Union law, one of the pillars of this process of European construction. In your interpellation, the other day you said that without law there is no democracy. Allow me to differ, and I give you a current example. The Kingdom of Spain has partially in force the Decree of 8 September 1954 approving the Regulation on academic discipline of the official centres of higher education and technical education, under the Ministry of National Education. It is true that it is being repealed through the legislative proposal for university coexistence, but, of course, this decree is a rule adopted under a dictatorial regime, not under a democracy. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen of VOX, democracy defends the sovereignty of the people, and not because there is a law, consequently, there is democracy. For example, another case: there is no law in the United Kingdom that allows Scotland to hold a referendum on independence, but there is a consolidated democracy in the United Kingdom that has allowed a referendum on independence to be held and that will certainly allow a second referendum on independence to be held. Going to the specific case that you raise in this motion, if Spain had fulfilled its obligations and if Spain had properly decolonized Western Sahara instead of abandoning it as it did, we would not now be in the situation in which we find ourselves. Of those dusts, these muds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u226	Thank you, Mrs. Illamola. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the Union Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, I have the floor Mr Pisarello Prados.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u227	Thank you very much, President. The truth is that it is surprising to see the far right come to this House to show concern for compliance with international law. Basically, because what they have dedicated to here is to do the opposite, to dynamite any kind of international regulation that attempts to guarantee peace and expand human rights; instead, they protect the powerful, who do not hesitate to jump whenever they want. It seems that the ultimate object of VOX's wrath here, the ultimate object, is the Saharan people. According to the United Nations, it is a people that has the right to self-determination, and its representatives have just been recognized by the General Court of the European Union itself. However, every time the Saharan people are unjustly assaulted, where is VOX placed? On the side of the Moroccan dictatorship, on the side of the Moroccan monarchy. Do not - look - with Moroccans on foot, not with many people who are sometimes forced even to cross the Strait in search of a dignified life, because in that case what you do is attack the Asylum Act and attack the Convention on the Rights of the Child. No, with the Amarroqui monarchy. But in this, ladies and gentlemen, the truth is that they are not original, because that foreign policy towards Morocco is that which Franco had and that which Juan Carlos I himself had when he consented, in front of the monarchy of Morocco, to the Green March on Western Sahara in 1975. But it must also be said that this attitude of the extreme right towards international legality is not surprising. The truth is that when the pandemic broke out and millions of workers had to confine themselves to the situation that existed, I did not see VOX calling for the application of the European Social Charter or the application of the principles of the International Labour Organization. What I did see was that they voted against the extension of the ERTE and the aid to the self-employed and did things like that the other day, to get Mr Abascal to tell the rest that he had to work and work, when he had been charging party charges for forty-four years. And they did the same with the right to health, they called for the dissolution of the World Health Organization. Why? Because Trump was asking for it. Why? Because what you said was that to get immunized, it was enough to hit your chest and make sure that you had Spanish antibodies to fight the virus. And today we have seen that they have done so again with the right to housing, I have not heard them here scrambling article 47 of the Constitution or the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights to limit the abusive rents and evictions of Spanish families. Why? Because already Mr Espinosa de los Monteros at the time traveled to London to meet with Blackstone and the big investment funds and to assure them that, while VOX is here, an international legality will never be approved that touches their privileges or touches their pockets. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, let the ultra-right, which has attacked the United Nations because Trump was being asked to do so, and let the European courts be called upon to impress governments such as the Polish homophobic and sexist government, come here to pretend to be concerned about international legality seems to me simply a faggot. Throughout the pandemic, the Secretary-General of the United Nations, Mr. Guterres, recalled that wars had to be stopped because they were unacceptable and that sanctions policies against countries that had allegedly deprived their population of medicines and food had to be avoided. What did VOX do? Because Trump asked for it, he defended it in the case of Venezuela or Cuba, harming not their governments, but the entire population. And while doing that - we have just seen it now - support criminal coups such as the one that took place in Bolivia or support presidents such as Jair Bolsonaro, who yesterday received a complaint to the International Criminal Court for crimes against humanity against the environment and against humanity. Therefore, the truth, ladies and gentlemen, is that the only precedent that exists in Spain for a foreign policy such as that which you are defending here, which is so submissive to the powerful and so harsh to the vulnerable, is Francoism, and perhaps that is why you yearn for it and perhaps that is why you speak as if you were protagonists of the Node. Yesterday I thought about it as I came out to see parallel Mothers, the last film by Pedro Almodóvar, a film that recalls how Spain - despite having ratified the Genocide Convention - remains the second country with the most disappeared after Cambodia. Well, a decent political force, if it really was concerned about international legality, the first thing I would do would be to ask for the repeal of laws that prevent truth, justice and reparation for the victims. Obviously, it is not the case of the ultra-right, heiress in all of the old Franchise recipes: vassal and submission to the strong; shouts, sticks and hatred for those who think differently and for the most vulnerable. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u228	Thank you very much, Mr Pisarello. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr. Hispan Iglesias de Ussel has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u229	Madam President, Mr Gali's illegal entry into Spain is one of the most serious scandals in which Mr Sánchez's government has been involved, and there are few who have already accumulated. The Court of Instruction No. 7 of Zaragoza has opened proceedings for the crimes of cover-up, prevarication and documentary falsity affecting the then foreign minister, Arancha González Laya, who has already had to appear as defendant, and her chief of staff; also the Minister of the Interior, whose chief of staff has been called to testify; the then vice-president of the Government, whose chief of staff - now relocated in the Mint and Timbre Factory - has also been called to appear; the Minister of Defence, since the plane landed at a military terminal, and the president of La Rioja, a co-operator necessary for the detention of Ghali in a hospital in Logroño, by the way, at a time when La Rioja had the saturated ICUs. It is clear that all these departments - in addition to the delegate of the Government and now Minister of Education - would not have been involved in this cluster of illegalities if a direct instruction from Moncloa had not been followed. Therefore, it is urgent to lift the veil with which the Government tries to cover up the truth of this case, because the Ghali case is really the case Pedro Sánchez, because it was he who authorized, ordered and managed the illegal entry of a fugitive from justice persecuted for heinous crimes; it was he who gave the instructions to the ministers and the president of La Rioja, and it was he who, once again, has considered it to be above the law. That's why the equis of this case is Pedro Sánchez. That is why the Government, in a scandalous decision, has put the State Attorney's Office in control of what Mrs. Laya said, because Pedro Sánchez defends the Attorney's Office; because, when he requests the dismissal of the case, Pedro Sánchez tries to alleviate it; because, when he requests bail of 150,000 euros from the private prosecution, Pedro Sánchez shields him. In this unstoppable deterioration and occupation of the institutions, it has turned the State Advocate into the legal defence of Pedro Sánchez. And if all this was not enough, now the new arrogance is to parapet after the Francoist Law on Official Secrets and a secret agreement of the Council of Ministers of 2010 to try to hide everything that has to do with this case. Instead of transparency, light and stenographers, this government is locked in a shadow bunker to hide a clandestine operation. But the ministers, the State Advocate and the Francoist laws are not enough to cover up the truth, and it is that the person responsible for this case is Pedro Sánchez. Because if it was all for humanitarian reasons, as they have said, why are they hiding from us the name of that charitable soul that made the decision? If, as Mrs Laya said, it was a political decision, why are the names of the politicians who participated in it hidden from us? If everything was okay and it's legal, why do they hide, cover it up, and nobody faces? Because in this case, in addition to the very serious criminal responsibilities that are being clarified in a court of inquiry, there are obvious political responsibilities. Or has nothing happened as a result of letting Ghali secretly enter Spain? That in the middle of a conflict between Algeria and Morocco an operation of these characteristics is authorized shows that Spanish foreign policy is in the clumsy hands of an amateur with statesman's inflation. If there is a dossier in our foreign policy that demands intelligence and finesse, it is that of Morocco, and the decisions that were taken only exacerbated a crisis that had already manifested itself with the suspension of the high-level meeting months ago. The situation in Ceuta reached unprecedented limits and, today, the political wounds and social consequences generated by the Ghali affair have not been restored. In addition, the illegal entry of Ghali was a violation of the Schengen rules, a delicate border agreement with our partners in the European Union at a time when there are questions in many countries. That's why we need to know the truth. That is why this Congress cannot continue on the sidelines. My group has requested a Committee of Inquiry and the motion that is being tabled today and which we support calls for President Sánchez to appear. Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, do not deprive us of Mr Sánchezen's easy presence in this House to see why he has decided to authorise Mr Ghali's illegal entry. If everything was right, if everything was legal, if everything was humanitarian, if we have in Moncloa the reincarnation Talleyrand, let us ovation ourselves and not that it is reserved for the members of the Council of Ministers when it returns from negotiations that lead others. They said that they came to put Parliament at the centre of political life and what we have is a new lock. But, careless, justice will make them pay for their criminal responsibilities and the Spanish for politics. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u230	Thank you very much, Mr. Hispan. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, I have the floor. Gutiérrez Prieto.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u231	Thank you, President. Lords of the right, how categorically they say, how roundly they pronounce and how often the courts deny them in their remarks. After months of improvisation and references to Mr Marlaska or Mr Ábalos, the judges closed their cases and before, without even time for rest, they are already looking for new traitors to point out in these Courts. And it's that you point out with a lot of impunity and a little bit of pollution. How can it be explained, if not, Mr Sánchez, that in this two-point motion - you who are a judge - the first of them is to condemn seriously and bluntly the accusations carried out and the second point is precisely a request to appear so that the facts which you have already condemned can be explained? It seems that you bring great trials to this house, pre-trial sentences, pre-fabricated sentences, because you care little about the facts and so continue with your escalation of tension, crispation and defamation of a Spain you claim to love so much, but do not miss a single opportunity to speak ill of it. Gentlemen of the PP, in these matters you do not exercise cowardly right, but are one more ram of irresponsible patriotism. Mr Hispan, you have ruled for many years and you know about international politics, you know the essential caution with which to work in certain sensitive areas of the planet, in this case for humanitarian reasons and always in defence of the general interest. Yours is not ignorance, yours is simply the policy of the whole thing. Or is it that it is patriotic what we have seen this weekend, hearing from the opposition leader that Spain is moving towards bankruptcy? Are you unaware of the seriousness of those words spoken by the leader of the opposition? What are you looking for? To create mistrust of investors, to create mistrust of consumers or simply to cut off the recovery in which our country is immersed thanks to the policies carried out by the socialist government? Irresponsible patriotism yours, they say they love Spain but, sincerely, they do everything possible to make the building fall so as to keep the sun. In that you are advanced students of Mr Montoro, in that of: let Spain fall, that we will already come to lift it. But the most striking thing is that you, both of you, are imploring in this debate the principle of the concept of international legality. Mr. de VOX, is it international law that you, who have a leader who asks to jump and get out of the Convention on the Rights of the Child precisely to continue with your crusade against unaccompanied minors? Do you, who have Mr Espinosa de los Monteros spreading messages on Twitter calling the United Nations an extremist and radical leftist organization simply to defend human rights? Do you, who also have Abascal asking for the inference with regard to the judgments of the Court of Justice of the European Union in what you do not share your criteria and principles? International legality a la carte or expediency. [[Applauds]] You gentlemen of the PP, legality? The only government that jumped the UN Security Council resolutions during the Iraq war? The only people in the European People's Party who have defended Orbán in Hungary for the fundamental rights of the European Union? Or did you, who took advantage of your absolute majority in Rajoy's presidency to repeal the principle of universal justice by which the National Court of Rajoy was allowed to prosecute precisely serious crimes against humanity beyond our borders? Mr Hispan, it is difficult in this debate to appeal to your patriotism. You, who tried to make sure that Spain did not have European funds or simply that you could not manage them. It is difficult also to appeal to your sense of compassion or humanity, you who faced the Tarajal migration crisis with a clean ball against people who came swimming trying to reach our shores. Or you, who removed the health card from migrants, also breaking the principle of universal health. But I will try to appeal to your sense of prudence, to trust our senior officials, diplomats, military, health care, to trust our judicial system, to trust the Government of Spain. Yes, in a government that has acted in accordance with the law, the Schengen Treaty, the established for humanitarian matters, with the required prudence, the right values, the right decisions and the difficult balances of international policy. Do not question it and, if you do, at least compromise yourself this time to come to this House and then ask for forgiveness. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u232	Thank you very much, Mr Gutiérrez. [[Pausa.-A cleaning worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.-Mr Sánchez García asks for the floor.]] Yes, Mr. Sanchez?
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u233	For allusions. I have been referred to by Mrs Illamola and the Socialist Group's spokesman, but I will only reply to Mrs Illamola's reference. I'll be very brief.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u234	Please refer to the specific reference to which you refer.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u235	He referred to me and told me that I had distorted the suspension of the Euroorder issued by the Supreme Court against Mr Puigdemont.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u236	Mr Sánchez, this is an allusion that does not open a turn, in accordance with Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure. It is normal for cross-references to be made in a debate but, in any case, it is not an offensive allusion that opens that turn. - OF THE VOX PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, ON MEASURES TO BE TAKEN BY THE MINISTRY OF THE INTERIOR TO PROTECT TO OUR FORCES AND SAFETY BODIES OF THE STATE IN CATALUNIA. [[File number 173/000101]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u237	We continue with the motion of urgent inquiry by the VOX Parliamentary Group, on the measures that the Ministry of the Interior will take to protect our State Security Forces and Bodies in Catalonia. For the author group of the initiative and for the defence of the motion, Mr Ortega Smith-Molina has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u238	Thank you very much, Madam President. This motion resulting from urgent questioning by our group is based on asking the Ministry of the Interior to say what measures it will take to protect the State Security Forces and Corpses that carry out their heroic work in the service of all Spaniards in Catalonia. In the previous session we had the opportunity to listen to the Minister of the Interior his answer was to attack VOX, as many times, but he did not say a single measure - it is curious - for the protection of those State Security Forces and Bodies. It's curious. Separatists of all colours - and with this they do not deceive anyone - have on their political agenda the expulsion of the State Security Forces and Corpses, in particular the National Police and the Civil Guard, from what they consider their territory. For that reason alone, all the measures necessary to prevent them from achieving their objective should have the support of all the groups defending the Constitution and the unity of Spain. But, unfortunately, this has not been the case over the years. Unfortunately, the separatists have continued in their permanent harassment of the State Security Forces and Bodies, especially in Catalonia since the coup d'état of October 1, 2017. Any excuse was good for attacking the police and the Civil Guard; to support a convicted man like Hasel for apologizing for terrorism and crimes against the Crown, to celebrate 11 September, Diada Day, whatever reason is enough to burn the streets, to attack the police vehicles, to harass and insult the agents, to destroy the cities and to continue to harass even their own families, in their workplaces, in the police stations in the Civil Guard barracks. The most serious of this situation is that it is being done with connivance of the Generality, because the Generality itself - sometimes by omission and sometimes directly by support and action - supports the separatist groups, the ultra-left groups, the violent groups in this harassment. In addition, unfortunately, our State Security Forces and Bodies are encountering a Ministry of the Interior that forgets them, looking elsewhere, which does not have a rapid and effective response to the measures necessary for their protection. They attack agents, attack and target their families. That is why this motion urges this House, in turn, to urge the Government, to declare Catalonia an area of special singularity, as was agreed for the Basque and Navarra countries in the wake of the harassment of terrorism. This means more personnel, more agents for Catalonia, more material, more modern and more equipped: vehicles, vests, anti-disturbing material, water launch vehicles for large demonstrations. This means more retribution. This means incentives based on the situation of special penosity and danger through a special complement of singularity. And all this would be of no use, by many agents and by a lot of material that we put in, if we did not also receive clear and precise instructions from the Ministry of the Interior to be able to act, and that it would not happen as on October 1 where the agents of GRS and IPU complained that they received instructions from the Ministry of the Interior that the anti-disturbing material could not be used. [[Applauds]] We also urge this House to make an express condemnation of what is nothing other than kale borroka, street terrorism, and also an express recognition of that heroic work that the National Police and the Civil Guard are doing in Catalonia. It is particularly important to maintain a firm position vis-à-vis any of the objectives of the separatists and, for example, to say from the Government that the headquarters of the Chief of Police in Via Laietana will not move from there under any circumstances, even if they continue to harass it, even if they continue to surround it. Moreover, their security measures, their personnel and their facilities will be doubled. That message addressed to the Generality and addressed to all those who are supporting separatism would be a clear message of the state's firmness in Catalonia. We also urge the Government to repudiate the Minister of the Interior for leaving office, precisely in the functions he has to defend and protect the State Security Forces and Bodies under his command. And, in addition, to urge the President of the Government to dismiss him for abandoning our agents in Catalonia. Some in this House this morning have referred to the events that have taken place in different places in Spain in which the Government has participated, to various institutional acts in which there has been abhorrence of the Government and have cried out: we must be respectful of the institutions, we must act with education in front of the Armed Forces or of the State Security Forces and Bodies. I think some of them are trying to trick us into confusing things with others. We have seen the same in Córdoba, in the Civil Guard act, as yesterday in the act of 12 October: the applause, affection and encouragement of thousands of Spaniards to their State Security Forces and Corpses, to their Armed Forces, to their Legion, to the National Police, to the Civil Guard, to the Infantry. Greetings from the heart, support and admiration. What we have seen are also pitiful and ousting a traitorous Government and a minister who has abandoned those Armed Forces and those State Security Forces and Corpses. Do not be confused, the institutions of the State are much more than this evil government in a great nation. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u239	Thank you, Mr. Ortega. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] As no amendments have been tabled to this initiative, we move on to position-setting. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor first.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u240	Thank you very much, Madam President. I speak briefly from the seat to support the operative part of the motion, both with regard to the unequivocal support for our State Security Forces and Corpses, and to the request for reinforcement to provide in Catalonia with adequate staffing, material and economic stimulus for the exercise of its complex work, which in recent years has been greatly hampered by the harassment of independent groups that have perpetrated serious acts of violence and even thirteen of them have recently been prosecuted by the National High Court, which attributes them nothing less than terrorist crimes. I also think it appropriate to reproach Mr. Grande-Marlaska, whose ministerial career at the head of the Interior is a succession of dismal fiascos, some of them with prominent members of the Civil Guard as victims. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u241	For the same parliamentary group, Mr García Adanero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u242	To ask the Government of Spain to protect or give more material or to compensate the National Police or the Civil Guard economically is to ask for an impossible one. [[The Lord]] We've seen him these days. In the end, when a person is convicted of assaulting a police officer, what does the government do? The Government says that aggression is very good, it is on the side of the person who assaults and criticizes the police action for which the police were assaulted. We have also seen this later, that another police officer, specifically a municipal police, is verbally assaulted in this case? What do we do? The person who has made that verbal assault is placed in a ministry. Therefore, the position of the Government with the National Police, with the Municipal Police and with the Civil Guard is clear that it is not the position to protect, assist and recognize this work - which in the end is fulfilling its constitutional obligation, which is to serve all Spaniards and guarantee their freedoms - and therefore there is no means for those who have to guarantee the freedom of people, such as the National Police, but there are means and prizes for those who attack the National Police or the Municipal Police or the Civil Guard. The case of the police station of Via Laietana is similar. These days the Government has taken this idea of decentralizing the institutions, and where there are institutions, where there is the State, where there is Spain, as they are, in this case the National Police in Via Laietana, what is intended? To throw it away, because it wants to eliminate the state of some cities, of some communities, because, as has been said, it is one of the political objectives - from the first day and that they do not hide - of the nationalist groups, of the separatist groups, that from the first day they advocate for the expulsion of the State Security Forces and Bodies from those communities that govern. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u243	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the same parliamentary group, Mr Botran Pahissa has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u244	Thank you, President. I will focus only on a subject that includes the motion, which is that of the Via Laietana police station. Mr. Ortega, do you know why in our country, in Catalonia, people hate the Via Laietana police station? Do you know that? Do you know that he was tortured during the Francoism? Do you know that he continued to torture himself during the monarchy of 1978? Do you know or don't you? Don't you know? You deny it? Do you ignore testimonies from people like Miguel Núñez, a communist militant who was a deputy in this very House? Testimonies like Lluís Maria Xirinacs, who was an independent senator? Do you ignore it or deny it? We are used to being negators of climate change, genocide in Latin America, macho violence. Are they also negators of repression during Francoism and later, of torture? Are you also negators of this? Look, ill-treatment even reaches today with testimonies from detainees such as Xènia or a photojournalist - including repression against the press - Albert García. The police station of Via Laietana is an open wound in our city that even when many people walk on that street crosses the sidewalk by fear, by memory, by the repression that has lived there. And you're negators or even worse, you support him. But let me tell you one thing: this battle we will win. The police station of Via Laietana will be a memorial center against torture and repression and then it will be you who cross on the sidewalk, but not by the memory of having suffered torture, you will cross by the shame that it will give you to have been denying these tortures and repression. For this reason you cross the sidewalk. [[Applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the Joint Parliamentary Group]] [[Candidacy for Popular Unity stood up]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u245	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u246	Thank you very much, President. I will speak briefly to point out that we will not support the motion tabled by VOX to address what comes to be called the Catalan process. We have already stated on many occasions that its proper approach is not from a direct or indirect police approach, as is now intended in this case, but from an approach in political methodology because we are faced with a political problem, which is a national sense of belonging different from that of the rest of the State, saved the case of the Basque Country. And political problems must be addressed in democratic societies based on the principle of pluralism under the premises of dialogue and negotiation. I must also point out - as the Minister of the Interior has already done in the debate on the question - that the budget in fact on which VOX bases the initiative in our view is totally disfigured from the reality that Catalonia lives and lives, where there is no situation of chaos and total governance of public security, as we are told. Ladies and gentlemen, the exaggeration and disfigurement of reality on occasion is a common currency in many of the interventions and initiatives of the proposing group, reaching the point - and I put it as a sample button - in the constant 'raca-raca' which in the inquiry also appeared to be the third political force in Spain and representing more than 4 million voters. Ladies and gentlemen, even the number of your voters is missing from the truth. Let us all know, in the elections that gave rise to this XIV Legislature did not vote for them - as you always say - more than 4 million people, exactly voted for them 3,656,979. Ladies and gentlemen, VOX lies in a consistent manner to that extent, with almost 350 000 more votes, at least 10% more than the total. Finally, ladies and gentlemen - and I am finishing, President - with all the background we know of the authors of the initiative, what we have to ask ourselves - how Groucho Marx would do it - is who we should listen to if in our eyes or what they tell us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u247	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Gutiérrez Vivas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u248	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, at this point it is said that Catalonia is harassing and harassing the State Security Forces and the Armed Forces. The problem is not just harassment of professionals, the problem is also harassment of their families, which seems to me to be the important part. I think you should think a little bit if it compensates you to harass, on top, families - yes, yes, don't say no - because their families feel harassed, and their children in schools. [[rumors]] That is what is happening in Catalonia and it seems to me to be the most regrettable thing that is happening right now in Catalonia. [[Applauds]] But look, it's that the harassment of the State Security Forces and Corpses, the harassment of our Armed Forces, is the harassment of the Spanish State, it's the harassment of the State. Because when the institutions of the State are harassed, the State is harassed. And, of course, that harassment, harassment turns into hate, what are you spreading: hate. Lords of the Socialist Party, Lords of the United Nations We can, so much so that you speak of hatred, that is the reality: you are getting hatred in society. And it's hate for the State Security Forces and Corpses, it's hate for the Armed Forces, and in the end, it's hate for the State. That is the reality of what you are doing in Catalonia, encouraging division through that hatred. And who's in connivance with that hatred? Well, listen, nothing more and nothing less than the direct representative of the State in Catalonia, who is the president of the Generalitat, is his role. Therefore, the President of the Generalitat of Catalonia is holding up the hatred that you are transferring to the rest of the state. It sounds like a lie! This seems very important to me, because that is the current situation: there are State institutions, there is harassment, harassment and hatred of the State, and there is permissiveness with that treatment. In the meantime, ladies and gentlemen, what is the government doing? Well, man, I'll tell you what the government doesn't do, what Mr. Marlaska doesn't do, Mr. Marlaska, the squeaky Mr. Marlaska, who already looks like a charcoal. For Mr Marlaska does not increase the staff of the National Police and the Civil Guard of Catalonia, he does not increase them but rather decreases them. Mr Marlaska does not give means to officials who are defending the interest of the State in Catalonia; on the contrary, he takes them away and does not improve either the human or personal means. But it is also that Mr Marlaska allows him to even be deprived of powers such as maritime security, which have just been deployed by the Mossos d'Esquadra in Catalonia; a competence that is of the Civil Guard, which is the surveillance of our sea, inside and outside. That's a competition that the mossos are taking away from him and Mr. Marlaska looks elsewhere, and says they're going to help him, and they're asking for help. Hey, I haven't heard the Civil Guard say it needs help to maintain maritime safety on the coast of Catalonia! So that's all Mr. Marlaska's not doing. But another thing Mr.Marlaska doesn't do is defend his Chief of National Police at Via Laietana in Barcelona. Neither does Mr Marlaska. This is not just me, this humble Member, who is told by all the police unions and all the professional associations of the Civil Guard. I say that something will know about this, that they know more than I do; if I recognize it. But you don't listen to what you say either. What are the government partners doing, because we have already seen that Mr Marlaska does nothing? Government partners do not condemn these acts. I have not heard the Socialist Party say anything, we can not hear you say anything to the Members of the United Nations. They are not condemning acts of hatred or acts of harassment. But, moreover, they do not defend those who are defending us. And every time there's an expression on the part of the separatist parties about this, you don't decide anything, you don't even criticize those who assault the cops. Therefore, Mr Marlaska does nothing, government partners do nothing, and what does the President of the Government do? The President of the Government meets at a table with the head of the State who should be looking after the interests of the State in Catalonia. He meets with him and does so without taking into account the majority of Catalan citizens, a minority, because, ladies and gentlemen of the CUP, I do not know if you have seen the latest reports, but there is an authentic minority. Three out of four Catalans believe that the process is a failure; only one out of four continues to think about the process. 75% of the Catalan population think that the process has been a failure. By the way, within that 75%...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u249	Your Honor, you must finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u250	I'm done, Mr. President. ... 58% of the CUP, 52% of Esquerra and, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, 95% of the PSC. I think you should take a look at this. Thank you, President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u251	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Boadella Esteve has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u252	Good afternoon. Ladies and gentlemen of VOX, you intend here to bring the water to your mill with several texts that cause confusion by associating protests against the trial sentence and against the sentence against freedom of expression against harassment of the State Security Forces and Bodies, and that is not true. This is not true. For my part, they will always find the condemnation of violent acts. The demonstrations and protests must be peaceful - I want this to be clear from the first minute - but when the people go out to protest or protest, they are protesting against the unjust sentence of the trial, they are protesting against the attacks on freedom of expression and they are not generating, they are not instigating a revolt against the Security Forces and Bodies. In short, you intend to sell a distorted reality and I could do the same. Do you want me to give you examples, like the people who are going to renew the identity card and don't take care of you in Catalan at the police station? Because this has even been the cause of controversy. Many examples could also put you from a distorted reality that brings nothing. There are many people belonging to the Civil Guard and the National Police who, in fact, have made an effort to know Catalan in order to be able to care for people, but the truth is that this is scarce. However, we will not make it a flag, maximizing the data to take it to our mill, as you claim with this alleged attack on the Security Forces and Bodies. The truth is, it made me funny when you talked about the speciality zone. The truth is that we defend the singularity of Catalonia and it has made me happy that you are now in favour of recognizing the singularity, but it turns out that it is not to recognize this differential fact, but to put more pressure, to put more police, to put more repression into the territory of Catalonia. When you refer to trade unions calling for an integral plan of economic and social measures and end up turning the police station of Via Laietana into a bastion, into a castle to defend, do you know what the reality is? The reality is that the police station of Via Laietana is from 1878 and there are currently about 300 agents in it and in Barcelona itself, in the Verneda, in the Rambla de Guipúscoa, there is a police station inaugurated in 2013, in which 1100 agents work. When you turn the Via Laietana into the bastion of the defence of Spain and the security forces, what you are doing is turning your back, precisely, on these agents, who work in subhuman conditions, who have much better facilities and who can have much better facilities elsewhere in Barcelona. They are turning their backs on the Security Forces and Bodies and on society, because defending that building does not have to be reinterpreted, it does not have to have any other use, as well as the atrocious history of it throughout the dictatorship is to turn their backs not only on the Security Forces and Bodies, but also on all Catalan society. Finally, you pointed out the question of pitos and applause. Do you believe that the 'a for them' that we heard were pitos and applause worthy of listening, worthy of defending? No one, on the part of the Security Forces and Corpses, went out to condemn those cries of 'a for them'; even worse, who went out to give more court to that cry was the king himself in his speech of 3 October. We are therefore not going to support this motion and, in any case, what we are going to do is to ensure that Catalonia is a fully democratic territory. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u253	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Bassa Coll has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u254	It is no secret that in Catalonia we do not like the Civil Guard, neither the Spanish police nor the military. And if you like them so much, let's take them to your Spain and leave us alone! [[Applauds]] Because our police, even with the failures they may have, are the Mossos d'Esquadra, the National Police of Catalonia; and the Spanish Police and the Civil Guard are neither necessary nor welcome in our country, because, as they demonstrated on October 1, they are occupying forces! [[Applauds]] They landed in a ridiculous Piolin - because they really are so cute -, coming from Spain to the cry of 'a for them', full of hate and beat us up. And those savages you think we love them? No, they're right! A good part of the Catalan population we hate the Spanish police; the police that mutilated our people, firing rubber balls that are forbidden in our land; the police that angryly beat my people and our elderly people; the police that lied in a farce trial, with the complicity of some judges who did not allow to contrast their lying statements with reality on the spot; the police that murdered Gustau Muñoz, Martí Marcó, Valentín González or Pedro Álvarez with total impunity; the police that spent decades - decades! - torturing in Via Laietana and that still today is proud of these tortures; the police that invents evidence against independenceists and other dissidents, we disgust and aversion to that police! And what we want you to do, as the streets of my country roam, is to vagi, vagi, vagin, vagin and no more! Out of the occupying forces! [[applause]] [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u255	For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations We can... [[Mr Ortega Smith-Molina asks for the floor]] At the end of the debate, Mr Ortega Smith. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Mena Arca has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal. [[Rumors]] Please remain silent. We will respect the intervener so that he can begin his intervention. Thank you. Any time.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u256	Thank you, President. Look, do you remember that song that said "it's not love, what you feel is called obsession"? For to me the motions of the far right remind me more and more of that song, because what you feel for Spain is not love, but it is called obsession. First obsession. You pretend to believe that in Catalonia there is a climate of harassment of the State Security Forces and Bodies, and that is simply a lie. You are apprentices of Goebbels; you want to turn a lie into a truth by repeating it many times, but you are apprentices - let me tell you - very bad, because we are already getting to know you. And you have a second obsession, which is that of patrimonializing the idea of Spain. They have done so or intend to do so with the flag, with the monarchy, with 12 October, and now they want to do so also with the State Security Forces and Bodies. If you continue like this, more and more people will feel alienated from that idea every day. With their will of appropriation, they are doing irreparable damage to these State institutions. Learn from Mrs. Angela Merkel, ladies and gentlemen; you will remember that moment when the former Chancellor refused to take a German flag at a rally, and he did so because he understood that that was a symbol of all, not of one party. Merkel would never play the game to the German far right, because he knows that he can be right-wing and he can also be democrat. And it is that, of course, you also hide - because that would alter your story - that both the Mossos d'Esquadra and also the Ertzaintza are State Security Forces and Corpses; they are both State Security Forces and Corpses as may be the National Police or the Civil Guard, because this is permitted by the Constitution and because the autonomous statutes of Catalonia and Euskadi make this concrete. What is the problem, which are not, because they are precisely from Catalonia and the Basque Country? Because, denying that, you fall into an ever-greater contradiction. They want to become the most constitutionalists in this House, in which they most claim to defend the Constitution. However, in reality, you are the political force that most tramples the Constitution; you are the dog of the constitutional gardener, neither defend the Constitution nor allow others to defend it. [[applause]] I have to admit, you guys keep letting it go. They came to politics calling the PP the cowardly right, and they present here today a motion that hides their true cowardice, the cowardice of VOX. What is behind this proposal is simply to eliminate autonomous competences in public security and, therefore, to put an end to the state of autonomy. Be clear, gentlemen of the far right, do not be cowards, do not hide, say things by your name and confront democratically the rest of the forces in this House. They don't because they know they're against the times, and I'm going to give them some data. The last time citizens were asked, in December 2018, only 17% wanted a state without autonomy; the rest, eight out of ten, accept and value them. Do you want to govern for only 17% of Spain? I will tell you more, that support for re-centralisation is falling significantly in Catalonia, in Balearic Islands, in the Canary Islands, in Galicia, in Asturias, in Euskadi and in Navarre. You want to legislate by leaving aside, precisely, half the country. But I also want to see here the good side of this motion, because these motions serve us to make it clear that the model of a progressive, plurinational and democratic country that we are defending confronts that of you, a white and black country that leaves aside half the territories, and we have seen it in many examples already. We, gentlemen of VOX, bet on a right as the minimum living income, and you send it out calling it payy. We provide the ERTE and offer help to the self-employed who protected thousands of citizens, and you were the only ones who rejected it. In just three years we have raised the interprofessional minimum wage by 30%, and you have voted against minimum wages in Europe. We are fighting for a decent housing law that regulates the price of rent, and you have presented in Congress a PNL precisely to avoid it. Their mouths are filled when it comes to talking about the security forces and bodies of the State, the family, the work and the housing, but in reality they are against worthy and depoliticized democratic forces, against families moving forward, against work that serves to live decently...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u257	Your Honor, you must finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u258	I've just been president. ...against, even, that people can afford to pay a rent and also reach the end of the month. So, gentlemen of VOX, stop trying to patrimony everything.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u259	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u260	And, if they're capable, I doubt it, they'll tie their shoulder. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u261	For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mrs De Luna Tobarra has the floor. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u262	Thank you, President. We discussed this motion in October, an important month of celebrations for the State Security Forces and Bodies. A few days ago, on October 2, it was the celebration of the patron of the National Police, the Guardian Angels; and yesterday, day 12, it was that of the patron of the Civil Guard, the Virgin of the Pillar, and, in addition, the day of the Spanish National Festival and the Day of Hispanicity. The events of celebration of the patrons of our State Security Forces and Bodies are an unbeatable opportunity to thank them for their commendable work in defending our security and our constitutional principles and also to highlight the values they represent, such as honour, loyalty, professionalism and the vocation to serve society. [[Applauds]] The forces and bodies of State security in Catalonia are the guarantors of the exercise of the rights and freedoms of Catalans - of all Catalans, without exception - not like the Government of Spain, which has abandoned half the Catalans by kneeling before the Government separatist of the Generalitat. A separatist government that harasses, harasses and spreads hatred against everything that constitutionalism and the state represents in Catalonia, and in particular against our police and civilian guards. We all remember how the president of the Generalitat was going to exercise excessive violence against them with the infamous squeeze, or when, recently, during the pandemic and in the face of the refusal of the Generalitat, it had to be the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia that will force the police and the civilian guards to vaccinate, and the then secretary of Public Health, the current health adviser, to say that fulfilling the judicial mandate would mean to stop vaccinate the elderly of seventy years, when above, because of their ineptitude and inability to manage, they have expired nothing less than 70,000 vaccines. They are not only incompetent, but also despondent and miserable, pointing fingers at specific people, men and women who want to criminalize, and endangering their health and life, as well as their families and surroundings. They are subjected to harassment, destabilization and persecution campaigns, which target both police and civilian guards and their families. Their children suffer and suffer every day at school from the appointment of their teachers and other students; this makes it increasingly difficult to ask for a destination in Catalonia, as well as to stay in a land in which many of them have been born or in which they have decided to take their professional or family roots, in short, in which they have decided to establish their life and their future. Since the People's Party we have always expressed the affection, respect and admiration for our Security Forces and Bodies and, aware of the difficulty of performing their work in Catalonia, in this year's general budgets our parliamentary group has already proposed a retributive increase for the police and the civilian guards of this autonomous community. Finally, they're going to allow me a personal leave after the attacks we've been hearing from our police and our Civil Guard. This personal mention is as follows: what I feel most proud of my stage as a government delegate is that I have held the Chief of Police and Civil Guard in Catalonia. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u263	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, Mr Zaragoza Alonso has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u264	Thank you very much. The truth is that I was thinking of ending the quick intervention because, after reading these twelve pages of parliamentary straw, of bellacos arguments, of statements based on lies and of realizing that all this lie is built on the lack of data... I don't understand how you can make a twelve-page document and forget the basics: give the figures on which you base your claims. And since they haven't bothered to go looking for them where they have to look, I'm going to give them the numbers that show that VOX has lied. They already knew that when they tabled this motion, the problem is to see all the parliamentary groups who have believed this lie. I'm going to give you the data - it's simple, that's the end of the discussion - and it's the data from a parliamentary response from Mr. Rajoy's government on the troops deployed in Catalonia in January 2018 - I repeat, January 2018-: Guardia Civil, 3303, currently, 3422; Police Nacional, 2921, currently, 3549. That is, if you use a thing of science called mathematics, gentlemen of VOX, which is to add, you will see that we have gone from 6224 to 6971, 747 more people from the security forces deployed in Catalonia. We already know that for you, as you have taught before, 'less is more' when you are your vows and'more is less' when you are the State Security Forces and Bodies, because you seek here is not to argue, it is to lie. What I regret is that some parliamentary groups have taken their stand believing that lie, because I insist that they have not diminished, that they have increased, and that is the end of the discussion. We could finish this issue right here, but it is that, in addition, two weeks ago in the Parliament of Catalonia a motion has been discussed that I will read in its literality: The restitution and reinforcement of the authority of the body of Mossos d'Esquadra and of the whole of the police acting in Catalonia and against hate crimes - that was the title of the resolution -. First point: The Parliament of Catalonia condemns the recent riots and violent acts in various public spaces that have caused significant personal and material damage, affecting both public and private property. They voted against Esquerra Republicana, Junts, the CUP and the deputies of VOX. [[Applauds]] Second point: The Catalan Parliament condemns the attacks on the Mossos d'Esquadra Corps, local police and emergency services in recent months and expresses its support for all police and emergency forces operating in Catalonia. They voted against Esquerra Republicana, Junts, the CUP and the deputies of VOX. [[Applauds]] I continue because there is still more, and it is the demonstration that not only do they obviate the numbers to support their lies, but when they have to vote they demonstrate with their facts that their words are lies and that the only thing they seek is hatred and confrontation: The Catalan Parliament urges the Government to promote actions aimed at restoring and strengthening the authority of the body of Mossos d'Esquadra and the group of police officers who act in Catalonia and to strengthen the coordination mechanisms between police forces to deal with episodes of social violence in the botellones. They voted against Esquerra, Junts, the CUP and the deputies of VOX. [[Applauds]] Fourth point: The Catalan Parliament urges the Government to give full coverage to the body of Mossos d'Esquadra with measures such as the judicial processing of all complaints for actions against the authority, as well as to promote actions to raise public awareness without dismissing, where appropriate, the impetus of legislative reforms that are deemed appropriate in order to preserve the authority that the current legislation grants to the body of Mossos d'Esquadra and local police. They voted against Esquerra, Junts, the CUP and the deputies of VOX. And fifth: The Catalan Parliament reiterates its commitment to hate speech and discrimination. It believes that these defend the targeted violence in the target groups of this hatred and calls on the Government of the Generalitat to make a greater effort to combat it at all levels. They voted against Esquerra, Junts, the CUP and the deputies of VOX. You don't come here to defend public servants, you come here to face and divide us, because you, gentlemen of VOX, defend one thing, and then you do the opposite. You lie and cheat because all you seek is to keep the conflict, not end it. In Catalonia, problems are being faced and we are solving them. That brawling speech that you brag about and applaud - because you only need to dance the Macarena when you come out to the rostrum - the truth is it's ridiculous...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u265	Your Honor, please go ahead and finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u266	All you need is to remember what you vote for because your words do not coincide with your deeds. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u267	Thank you. [[Pausa.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.-Mr. Ortega Smith-Molina asks for the floor.]] Mr Ortega Smith, you have the floor. Tell me on the basis of which article.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u268	Thank you very much, Mr President. In accordance with Rule 103 of the Rules of Procedure. The representative of Esquerra Republicana, Mrs Bassa Coll, has poured words and concepts that are clearly offensive to the institutions of the State, in particular to the National Police and the Civil Guard, which she has defined - I read textually and we would have appreciated that the Presidency would have called it to order - as: skins, savages, occupying forces, full of hatred, lied in the trial and are proud of the tortures. This is unacceptable for the House of National Sovereignty to say in respect of those who are public servants of the National Police and the Civil Guard. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-13-CD211013.u269	Thank you so much. The meeting was suspended. It was three and five minutes in the afternoon.
