ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-15-CD210415.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. The meeting was resumed. Let's start with the point about opinions... yes, Mr Figaredo, what do you want? [[Mr Figaredo Álvarez-Sala asked for the floor]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-15-CD210415.u2	Madam President, by Rule 71, by allusions to me and my social media, I would like to ask for the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-15-CD210415.u3	Mr Figaredo, we are on another completely different agenda item. Anyway...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-15-CD210415.u4	But the session continues, it's part of yesterday's session, and yesterday with whom I was acting as president we stayed in that we would do it today.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-15-CD210415.u5	Mr. Figaredo, I'll give you a minute.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-15-CD210415.u6	Yes, yesterday the Minister of Finance said that I had posted on my social networks a question about the 36, about the 39, which is objectively wrong. It is clear that someone has made a mistake; I want it to be recorded and I would like it to be removed from the Journal of Sessions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-15-CD210415.u7	You'll be on the record, Mr Figaredo. COMMISSION DECISIONS ON LEGISLATIVE INITIATIVES: - DRAFT LAW ON THE PROTECTION OF PERSONAL DATA PROTECTED FOR PREVENTION, DETECTION, INVESTIGATION AND JUDGMENT OF CRIMINAL INfractionS AND EXECUTION OF CRIMINAL PENALTIES. [[File number 121/000046]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-15-CD210415.u8	We begin with the point concerning opinions of committees on legislative initiatives and in particular on the draft organic law on the protection of personal data processed for the prevention, detection, investigation and prosecution of criminal offences and the enforcement of criminal sanctions. To defend the amendments to this legislative initiative, I have the floor, by the Basque Parliamentary Group EAJ-PNV, Mr Legarda Uriarte.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-15-CD210415.u9	Thank you very much, President. We are discussing the draft Organic Law on the Protection of Personal Data processed for the purpose of preventing, detecting, investigating and prosecuting criminal offences and the enforcement of criminal sanctions. This draft organic law transposes into domestic law Directive 2016/680 of 27 April 2016, which, in view of the delay in its transposition, has entailed a flat-rate fine, a coercive fine and procedural costs for the State. The Union, with this Directive, together with Regulation 2016/679, General for the Protection of Data - which has already been incorporated into national law through Organic Law 3/2018, on the protection of personal data - has created a space in which standards and guarantees for the protection of the rights of natural persons to the protection of their personal data are at the forefront of the international stage and constitute a global reference, in order to preserve the rights of citizenship, standards and guarantees whose fundamental purpose is to guarantee to everyone the ability to control the use and destination of their data, with the aim of preventing the illicit or harmful traffic of their personal data or an end-use other than those which justified their acquisition, in particular in the case of Directive 2016/680, which is now transposed, with regard to the areas of police and criminal judicial cooperation. And it is in this tuitive direction of the right of everyone to control the use and destination of their data towards which the amendments of the Basque Parliamentary Group are headed that we will defend before this plenary. The first of these, paragraph 3, is aimed at improving the rights of the person concerned under article 22 in order to obtain information on certain issues relating to the treatment that the competent authority is giving to personal data, as well as rights of complaint, rectification or deletion. However, among these rights is not the relative to know by the data subject whether their data are subject to automated processing, such as the preparation of police profiles, the applied logics - i.e. algorithms and their biases - and the possible consequences that such processing can generate for the data subject, and the right to obtain a copy of the personal data subject to automated processing, these rights of the data subject which are not, as I said, in the draft organic law and which, however, are recognized in the European Union's General Rules for the Protection of Personal Data 2016/69. That is why we want them to be incorporated into this organic law, without meaning to give instruments to hinder an investigation, to endanger public security or the security of the State or to harm the rights and freedoms of other persons, because if the competent public authority for the processing of data considers that the exercise by the person concerned of his or her rights may endanger those higher public interests, it retains its power to restrict them. For your part, ladies and gentlemen, the second and last of the amendments we are bringing to this plenary on the organic bill we are dealing with is moving in the same direction as the previous one, that is to say, providing better protection for people with regard to their data without jeopardising or jeopardising the general interest. Article 36 of the draft establishes certain obligations for those responsible for processing who respond to a new model of active liability and who require a prior assessment of the risk that data processing could generate for the data subjects and other persons concerned. Where such prior assessment considers that the intended treatment may pose a high level of risk to rights and freedoms, in particular when new technologies, mechanisms or procedures are used - think of artificial intelligence for police investigations - it is obliged to consult before initiating the treatment of the Data Protection Agency on the impact assessment carried out and on the adequacy of the safeguards provided. Well, ladies and gentlemen, the amended article, 36.4, provides that when the Data Protection Agency does not issue the report within the prescribed time limit on possible infringements of this law or the directive, the processing procedure may be initiated by considering that silence of the Data Protection Agency as a positive silence. In our view, in the opinion of the Basque Parliamentary Group - and this is the meaning of our Amendment No 5 to Article 36.4 - we should not opt for this positive sense of the silence of the Data Protection Agency, because its passivity or delay in issuing the opinion cannot become a endorsement for data processing by the police authority whose prior impact assessment has been considered to be of high risk to rights and freedoms and, in particular, when new technologies, mechanisms and procedures are used, as I have already pointed out. In short, ladies and gentlemen, we believe that the silence of the Data Protection Agency should not be a positive silence, but a negative silence. Ladies and gentlemen, the Basque Parliamentary Group has always shown its support to the authorities and officials who are entrusted in every democratic society with the protection of the free exercise of rights and freedoms and the legitimate and proportional use of force to guarantee citizen security and to investigate and bring to justice the perpetrators of criminal offences, but security must be to guarantee the rights and freedoms and not these posts to the service of those. I'm finishing up. That is why we seek the House's support for the two amendments tabled to better ensure the protection of rights and freedoms from the use of new information society technologies for the processing of personal data for police and criminal investigations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-15-CD210415.u10	Thank you very much, Mr. Legarda. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, which will also determine its position at this time, Mr Rego Candamil has the floor. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-15-CD210415.u11	Thank you, Madam President. The BNG defends fundamental rights, such as those of non-discrimination, demonstration, privacy and self-image, which we believe are seriously affected in this project, by giving more power to the State Security Forces and Bodies to collect, process and store data on citizenship without judicial control and without respecting the right to the presumption of innocence of the persons investigated, so we are already advancing that we are going to vote against. We have tabled a series of amendments focusing on those most contentious aspects, which unfortunately were not taken into consideration, for example, the inclusion of data related to the cultural, social or economic situation that can be stigmatized and open the door to prejudice and discrimination based on purchasing capacity, religious ideation, cultural or racial origin. We also understand that one cannot be forced to reveal one's membership in a political party, trade union or association, because it directly violates the fundamental right to personal privacy. In order to know this information in any case, a judicial authorization would have to be sought to ensure that the need to investigate an offence prevails over privacy and that such interference is authorized. Of course, the BNG understands that during an investigation the police must be able to have access to all documents considered public or of free circulation, but those affecting matters of special protection or privacy must only be able to be handed over voluntarily or with judicial authorization, not before the investigators' merit. The Act also regulates the installation of fixed chambers in towns and cities and expressly provides that they may be installed without authorization, not even having to inform local authorities and administrations with jurisdiction in the territory. The installation of video surveillance cameras indiscriminately does not respect the principle of exceptionality and proportionality between the right to privacy of individuals and the legal assets that are intended to be protected. With regard to the use of mobile devices for recording, the proposed legislative text has the clear intention to pursue and investigate cautiously public events, acts protected by freedom of expression, opinion and protest, perfectly legitimate, which, in our view, are criminalized in this way. In short, the text proposed by the Government represents a serious setback in the civil rights and public freedoms recognized in the Spanish State, giving more freedom of action to the State Security Forces and Corpses, without the need for judicial control, in order to suppress and penalize conduct that they consider to be dangerous. In our view, we are facing a serious threat to freedoms, so the BNG is going to oppose it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-15-CD210415.u12	Thank you very much, Mr. Rego. For the same parliamentary group, Mr Boadella Esteve has the floor. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-15-CD210415.u13	Thank you very much, President. I am going to make a very brief statement, because we are going to vote in favour of the bill moving forward and, therefore, the incorporation of Directive 2016/80, but we wanted it to be recorded in the Diario de Sesiones, as we had previously pointed out, on the question of the State's failure to do its duty in this area: EUR 15 million in fines, EUR 89 000 a day until its adoption, was the sanction that Spain faced and the one that was condemned for not adapting the European directive. Therefore, when speeches such as those made yesterday, in which the fact of being part of the European Union was valued and it was said that it was the best thing that had happened to us - speeches that I certainly share - one must think that being in the European Union also means complying with the rules of the European Union. The maximum time to adapt this directive to the legislation of the Spanish State was 6 May 2018 and we are doing so today, 15 April 2021, so that these 15 million euros of fine for not having fulfilled the duties end up coming out to the citizens for about 420 000 euros per month. I only put another thought on the table: no one gives so much room when asked to pay their taxes, contributions or obligations to the State. Surely, all these social security surcharges, VAT and IRPF are much harder and they call on citizens much more to fulfil their obligation. It is clear that the State does not comply in this area, that the State does not adapt European legislation to the speed that was expected and the consequence, ladies and gentlemen, we all pay for it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-15-CD210415.u14	Thank you, Mr. Boadella. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Pedreño Molina has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-15-CD210415.u15	Good morning. Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we transpose into this organic law a directive of the European Union, the European Parliament and the Council of 2016, a law that seeks to create a regulatory framework with regard to the processing of personal data, including all the security obligations and measures established for the controller of data processing and the rights of those interested in criminal proceedings, among other issues. So far, ladies and gentlemen, it's all right. In the end, it is a very technical transposition, but the incompetence of the Government had to emerge once again and it does so in this law. The deadline for transposition of the Directive expired in May 2018, which is why the European Commission initiated a procedure by letter to the Government in July 2018, and subsequently, with a reasoned opinion in January 2019, i.e. the European Union has already given a margin to do so. As the infringement persisted, in September 2019 the European Commission brought an action before the Court of Justice of the European Union against the Kingdom of Spain for failure to transpose the Directive, while seeking a judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union on 25 February 2021 two months ago. In short, the Court of Justice of the European Union has ordered Spain to pay EUR 15 million for not yet transposing the directive on the protection of personal data in criminal offences, and to this must be added the EUR 89 000 per day of coercive fine for each day of delay in prolonging this non-compliance, counted from 25 February, that is to say, the accounts are other, more than EUR 5 million for this fine, in total EUR 20 million with which the European Union has fined us. In March 2019, Spain informs Brussels that the administrative procedure for the adoption of the transposition measures was under way, which would be completed in July 2019 and that the parliamentary procedure would have been completed in March 2020, and this is April 2021. According to this judgment, Spain did not deny that it had failed to comply with its obligations to adopt and communicate the measures adopted within the time-limits - it would be missing more - but justified the delay in very exceptional institutional circumstances which forced the processing to be delayed. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a real act, and this has to be known by the Spanish, because it is EUR 20 million thrown away by the incompetence of this Government. [[Applauds]] Focusing on the text of the law, although most of the articles are in line with the transposition of the directive - as it cannot be otherwise - there are articles and subjects which do not correspond to this directive. There are new final provisions, which are governmental amendments by the PSOE and Podemos, for which we have asked from my parliamentary group for a particular vote. Ladies and gentlemen, this government takes advantage of several amendments from the PSOE and Podemos in order to skip once more to the Council of State and include matters which are not the subject of the directive. Among other things, they modify the powers of the General Council of the Judiciary. They amend Law 50/1981, which regulates the Organic Statute of the Ministry of Finance. What they do is create a monitoring and data protection control unit, which seems necessary, but you have to read the small letter. They say: At the front, as the holder of this unit, there will be a person who is a recognized jurist and with fifteen years of experience. Why not a career prosecutor to hold that position in the prosecutor's office? There is a lot of small letter in these amendments, and, gentlemen of the Government, gentlemen of the PSOE, Mr dePosos, we no longer trust each other. They also amend the Organic Law of the Judiciary, they amend nothing more and nothing less than fourteen articles of this law, and all this in the midst of an express processing, as a matter of urgency and with the horrific ridiculousness of his Government for not having done the duties in Europe and, above all, for the economic waste that this entails. It is 20 million euros - I repeat - that will cost us their inefficiency and incompetence, and this must be known to all Spaniards, Spaniards who are cut off and threatened with taxing them. Mr Marlaska, with twenty-two ministries and one thousand two hundred advisers, have they really not been able to transpose in two years a law that was almost completed in 2018 and that left the People's Party government ready? [[Applauds]] They also include these final provisions without a report from the Council of State, the General Council of the Judiciary or the Fiscal Council. These are his amendments and this is already beginning to be very serious. All this at a historic moment, as President Casado reminded them yesterday, in which even the Spanish associations of judges have expressed themselves in the European Union against their actions in the judiciary. Finally, the most surprising thing is that this law contains three final provisions which include matters which are not covered by the directive. The fourth final provision amends Law 19/2007 against violence, racism, laxenophobia and intolerance in sport, when we are today seeing a draft law on data protection in the criminal field. The fifth final provision amends Law 5/2014 on Private Security. The sixth final provision amends the consolidated text of the Law on Traffic, Movement of Motor Vehicles and Road Safety. Of course, this is a veritable misconception. That is why the People's Parliamentary Group has tabled amendments to abolish these final provisions which, of course, we hope they will support, although we know they will not. In any event, we are going to vote in favour of the opinion on the responsibility of the People's Parliamentary Group and so that we do not continue to be penalised for their abandonment of office and for the inoperation of their Government. I shall now finish, Madam President, with a message for you, Mr Marlaska. It's obvious he hasn't resigned yet. We appreciate your presence in the Chamber for at least passing the shame of feeling pointed out today as the author of the theft of 20 million euros that has been perpetrated to us all Spaniards for being in other things instead of doing their job as Minister of the Interior. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-15-CD210415.u16	Thank you, Mr. Pedreño. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Pozueta Fernández has the floor in position-setting by the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-15-CD210415.u17	Madam President, Mr Guztioi. We are faced with the processing of a law on the protection of personal data, a law that seeks to protect citizens from the fraudulent use of their data, either by individuals or entities, or by institutions of the State itself. Finally, the Spanish Government, after its resistance over time, has decided to implement the Community directive on data protection. We do not doubt the need for this protection or the need to ensure its good use as well. In Euskal Herria we have lived for years the bloody consequences of the realization of illegal files made by the information services of the Forces and State Security Bodies, data stored in files to which it has not been possible to access, illegal data in its elaboration and use and uncontrolled. In our country it was vox populi that existed, and it generated fear when they were going to be used for what they carried. With the use of this data, operations against the youth of Euskal Herria have been justified, resulting in arrests, years of pre-trial detention and acquittal, and operations against persons located in the so-called political dissent. Belonging to a political group, a common association, a religion or a culture should not be a reason to be included in a file that can be used against the citizens themselves without having the guarantees of defence or the presumption of innocence itself. This kind of listasse has even been used to prevent the political participation of thousands of people in electoral processes, all with the approval of successive Governments of this State. That is why we see it so important that so much arbitrariness and indefensiveness should be imposed at this time, in compliance with European rules. On the other hand, it is surprising that on such a sensitive and important subject the requirements of the Spanish Data Protection Agency, which is responsible for complying with and enforcing the rules, both state and European, to state institutions, are not known. All this contradicts what Europe says over and over again, which has stressed the importance of the breached rule, since the protection of personal data is a fundamental right, as can be seen from Article 8 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the Union. With regard to the subject that brings us, I would also like to show you a clear example of arbitrariness which has had a great impact in Navarre and which continues to have it because of the unfair consequences it entails. We want to denounce once again, as we have done before the director of the Civil Guard, the last time about a month ago, the case of Patxi Zamora, declared unfit to renew his airport identification card, necessary for the work he was developing for thirty-one years, all based on the reports of the Civil Guard and without motivation to justify it. The Civil Guard has breached European law in the case of Patxi Zamora. The European Union Commissioner of Justice, Didier Reynders, in January of this year pointed out that archives for the prevention, investigation and detection of criminal offences drawn up by the security forces and bodies of the member countries of the European Union cannot be dealt with subsequently for administrative purposes and that all persons affected by such archives must maintain the rights of access and rectification on them. If these premises had been fulfilled, none of the documents invoked by the Civil Guard to provoke the dismissal, already three and a half years ago, of Patxi Zamora would have legal validity, since they would be internal reports of an unknown nature that were never handed over to the person concerned and were used to justify the withdrawal of a labour procedure, which is in fact an administrative act. Finally, the recent answer to a question in the Congress of Deputies itself acknowledges that it was fired for its integration in 2007 on the lists of the Basque Nationalist Action political party. The denial of the renewal of his security accreditation by the Civil Guard was motivated by being close to potentially dangerous environments. Please note that three more dismissals have been found in the aviation sector for ideological reasons in these 18 months. All these people had no criminal record, and all of them were fired by a previous intervention of the GuardiaCivil. First of all, in this transposition of European legislation we see loopholes and loopholes, which do not guarantee the optimal use of personal data or the protection of citizens and their rights and freedoms. That is why we shall abstain. Mila esker.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-15-CD210415.u18	Thank you, Mrs. Pozueta. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, Mr Bal Francés.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-15-CD210415.u19	Thank you, President. Good morning, everyone. Thank you, Minister. It seems false to have to thank a minister for sitting here in the Chamber, but it is not common for ministers to come when they are interested in a law to listen to the debate and the criticisms that you will understand that I have to make. We are in the presence of the transposition of a directive that has some relevance, because it is exempt from the General Data Protection Regime, of data retention, precisely those data, when they are relevant at the time of being able to investigate crimes, criminal offences. Mr Legarda has already explained the evolution of this rule, of this directive, which replaces a previous framework decision, 2008/977; a framework decision which was necessary to reform through this directive, basically because it dealt only with data protection when it crossed the border, not when it concerned the protection of national data, and in addition, it gave wide power to States, which failed to achieve the objective of harmonising legislation within the European Union. In other words, each country could regulate this to its prudent discretion. The harmonization of standards within the countries of the European Union is desirable and is essentially based on a principle of mutual trust between States. It is based on a principle, precisely, of police and judicial cooperation that benefits the security of people, for the protection of democratic principles. It is, in short, something desirable, but something desirable that we want those who believe in Europe. Because, Mr. Minister, the speech that some of your government partners have just made from this rostrum, and I am referring to what Bildu has just made or what the Galego Nationalist Block has previously made. They do not like Europe, it is absolutely clear that harmonising legislation on greater judicial and police cooperation in order to discover, investigate, prosecute and punish crimes is something that populists, who do not believe in the independence of the judiciary or in the separation of powers, or nationalists, who call exiles those who are simply fugitives from the justice of Spain, because, logically, they do not like it. This likes moderates and this, in Europe, likes liberals, conservatives and asocial democrats, who we vote together there and I don't know why we don't agree here. Well, I do, because you basically don't want to. Citizens have made a considerable effort in the speedy processing of this law, without putting obstacles, and my first words have to be of thanks to that consensus effort that has been made by the rest of the parliamentary groups, and also by the Ministry of the Interior with the admission of our Amendment No 65, through a transactional, for which we were concerned. We were concerned that only those involved in criminal investigation were excluded from the General Data Protection Regime, but not other ancillary actions that might have to do with the investigation of crimes, not in criminal, but in civil, for example, when civil actions were taken to redress the damage caused by the crime and, above all, what we were most concerned about was the use of such data for the protection of such victims in administrative proceedings. In Spain, there are three procedures for the protection of victims, namely victims of terrorism, victims of gender-based violence and victims of malicious and violent crimes and against sexual freedom. It was reasonable to believe that it was necessary to retain such data in order to initiate such administrative procedures. This is what Citizens bring to the text of this transposition of this directive, and I am grateful that it has been brought to the opinion of the paper, practically with the consensus and unanimity of all the groups that we are part of the Committee on the Interior. You will understand that, Minister, you have to be scolded because we have indeed met with a judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union of 25 February this year, which imposes what most of the lagent who knows about this, and is that it is the biggest fine Brussels has ever imposed on a country: EUR 15 million flat-rate, EUR 89 000 per day plus the costs. All this for not complying with the transposition of a directive with little ideological content, little political content, except for Mr de Bildu, the Block, and the radicals and the populists, and which was only trying to apply, to transpose a directive into national law. The truth is that it has been a bochorno, it is a bochorno for Spain to fail to fulfil its obligations within the European Union. That is why, in the end, we have made this effort to bring this law forward by placing the smallest possible obstacles. I understand that, Mr Grande-Marlaska, because the requirement that is made to Spain is July 2018 and the motion of censure President Sánchez wins in June, that is, the whole journey or the whole time lapse has been you the Minister of the Interior. But, of course, you have been concerned, for example, with falsifying police reports in relation to the attacks that Citizens suffered on Pride Day; you have been concerned with ceasing honest officials who wanted to fulfil their obligation both in the National Police and in the Civil Guard; you have been busy bringing ETA prisoners to the Basque Country, and you seem to have forgotten to transpose the directive and we have fallen that 20 million euros regón that we have been carrying since the sanction was imposed on us, 20 million euros that would be much better dedicated to the payment of ERTE, to the payment, for example, of minimum living income or to the payment of pensions and that, however, they are going to go from the Treasury to Europe as a result of their negligence; it cannot be said otherwise. I would also like to refer to the amendments that the Basque Nationalist Party and the People's Party are keeping alive. As for those of the Basque Nationalist Party, I do not understand why their ministry, why the Socialist Party has not admitted them when they are guaranteed amendments, are amendments that seek to establish greater protection of the privacy of people with regard to the custody of their data, and we will therefore vote in favour. And the People's Party is absolutely right to say that this law cannot be used to bring in other things that have nothing to do with it, such as road safety or the regulation of security surveillance, and we will also vote in favour. In short - I shall end now - it seems that in this House when the issues are not contaminated by politics, they are not contaminated by ideology, we are able to reach agreements and reach consensus. I do not really explain how we do not agree on vaccines, on health, on education, on the distribution of European funds, on labour reform, on the issues that matter to the Spaniards. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-15-CD210415.u20	Thank you very much, Mr. Bal. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Velarde Gómez has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podem-Galicia in common.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-15-CD210415.u21	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, Minister. I promised myself that when I came up here I would not enter into your provocations and I would devote myself exclusively to talking about the law that concerns us. I haven't been in Congress for quite a while, but I'm used to the fact that they may miss the truth that way and use that cynicism - I don't get used to it - and I hope I never get used to it. It is impressive that they are here holding the government responsible for not transposing Directive 2016/680 on data protection for natural persons, because if it arrives with great delay it is because the People's Party - it has to be said - had to have transposed this directive before - I remind you - of 6 May 2018. [[Applauds]] I remind you that this motion of censure, by which we cast the People's Party, took place - I was pointing it out now - on 31 May and 1 June. That is to say, all the Member States - all of them - had to adopt this rule - I repeat it before 6 May, when you were ruling. If then a fine came, it's because you didn't do your job. It is their inoperation, therefore, which has caused the Court of Justice of the European Union, of course, to impose a fine of EUR 15 million on Spain and you presume to be good managers. Indeed, ladies and gentlemen of the PP, they have actually been the worst managers of our democracy. Among the corruptions, the fines that are being imposed on us in the European Union, their mismanagement and their neglect, because that is what it is, cowardice, you do not have enough years of life to give back to Spain all that you owe. You negotiate well private businesses at the expense of the public, which we know, bites, illicit enrichments, contracts of friendly companies and revolving doors with multinationals, in addition, to which you reward when they rule, but when it comes to managing what is of all, they are a real ruin. Do not come here to give lessons from absolutely nothing, ladies and gentlemen of the PP. I say this just to start and I am saying it because I am outraged by its pasticism, I will say it this way, in approving this law of data protection that has actually cost us the Spanish and the Spanish 15 million euros of fine. After you were removed from the Government, I remind you that there has been the dissolution of the Courts twice in 2019 and the arrival of a pandemic that has prevented the adoption of this rule before, and yet, with all these difficulties, it is this Government that is doing the work that you had to do and that you did not do. A little modesty, please, ladies and gentlemen of the PP. [[Applauds]] Have you ever thought about what those EUR 15 million could have been invested in our country, that fine for their mismanagement - I repeat, for everyone to know - and for their abandonment of office? For example, the transfer of EUR 15 million from the Ministry of Social Rights to the Autonomous Communities for the Food Guarantee Programme for children in poverty for the summer months, or amounts to a family allowance of EUR 420 for 35,500 Spanish and Spanish unemployed. That's 15 million euros, a lot of money, of course, and this country needs them. They should come up here and, instead of saying what they said, apologize to all the Spanish and Spanish. Having said that, which deeply outrages me, our parliamentary group is going to vote in favour of this law, which in addition our Confederal Group of the United Nations We can have improved in the parliamentary process so that the law that comes out of here is more guaranteed and that the fundamental rights of Spanish citizens are safeguarded. The main difference between an authoritarian regime and a democracy is also judicial guarantees, and this law contains precisely greater guarantees than those provided by the directive itself, as you know. It establishes due certainty and a safeguard of the fundamental rights of Spanish citizens when it comes to guiding the action of the judicial police, so it also establishes the accuracy and guarantee, the possibility of requesting data from the judicial police, emphasizing the obligation of accountability to the judicial authority or the prosecutor's office on the actions carried out by the judicial police; these guarantees on which our Confederal Group has been working tirelessly in recent months for the final text to be incorporated. In addition, there is also an important data on the retention of criminal data. The rule we adopt sets a guarantee period for reviewing its storage every three years, unlike the directive, that possibility was also left open. Unlike the directive, a maximum period of 20 years is also set for the storage of data after each three-year review as it is legislated, even if, as an extraordinary measure, the standard allows for exceeding the ordinary time limits set when certain factual situations occur, such as non-prescription of the offence or a need for protection for victims. With the adoption of this law - and I will finish - Spain becomes a country at the forefront of the international stage in the standards and guarantees of the protection of data and the rights of natural persons and thus, ladies and gentlemen of the PP, defends this country. To defend our country is to defend and protect the Spaniards and the Spanish, not their pasticism and their cowardice. I repeat, before May 6 they had to do this job, they were ruling. The EUR 15 million fine imposed by Europeans is due to their inability to transpose a European directive. I wonder, ladies and gentlemen of the PP, if you are not even good enough to transpose a European directive, why are you good enough? Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-15-CD210415.u22	Thank you, Mrs. Velarde. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Calvo Liste has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-15-CD210415.u23	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, from this rostrum I would like to send a strong hug to all those who suffered and suffered intolerance and violence last week in Vallecas and, in particular, to all those who attended and ended up with the open head as a result of the cobblestones that were launched. Also to our fellow Member of Parliament, Ángel López Maraver, who was wounded by a stone in his hand, and of course, to the National Police, abandoned to his fate, Mr Marlaska. Thanks to them, even greater consequences could be avoided. The police officers themselves were kicked and beaten. From here I send you a strong embrace for all of them, true guardian angels. [[Applauds]] The transposition of the directive that brings us here today, under the umbrella of the Ministry of the Interior, comes late, very late and is done in a hurry. One more misadjustment of this Government, one more misadjustment of this Ministry of the Interior, whose visible head unprotects citizens, orders that no action be taken against the violent, about prisoners of age in payment of parliamentary support, and dismisses members of the Civil Guard and the National Police for their duty. Marlaskay Sánchez must resign now. [[Applauds]] Five years after the issuance of this directive in April 2016, whose transposition deadline expired in May 2018, it is still not being implemented today. In view of the non-compliance, the European Commission decided in September 2019 to initiate proceedings against the Government of Spain, which culminated in the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union, 8th Chamber, of 25 February this year, in which it decided: first, to declare that the Kingdom of Spain has failed to fulfil its obligations by failing to adopt the laws, regulations and administrative provisions necessary to comply with the Directive or to communicate them; second, to declare that the non-compliance has persisted; third, to order the European Commission to put an end to the declared non-compliance, the enforcement fine of EUR 89 000 per day; fourth, to order the European Commission to pay a lump sum fine of EUR 15 million; and fifth, to order the European Commission to pay its own and its own costs. Do you have any idea how many families can survive with the €89 000 per day? Do you really know, ladies and gentlemen? Today this daily fine already accumulates a total of 4361 000 euros, an amount that increases every day. Can we afford these scandalous figures at a time like the present, with four million unemployed and more than 750 000 people on ERTE? The answer is clear and compelling: we cannot allow it. [[Applauds]] They are equally responsible for this immorality which embarrasses Spain and all the Spaniards, who have to pay for this obligation with their taxes, it is the last Government of the People's Party, gentlemen of the People's Group, which, after exhausting the two-year period granted for its transposition, does not carry it out, and, of course, the current Social Communist Government, which claimed reasons for the political context to excuse itself while - indeed - it agreed, precisely, the configuration of the Government with the enemies of Spain. And it is that this government was at his and the others, except VOX, also, because, as you will recall, already last year our deputy spokesman, Macarena Olona, asked Congress to declare themselves skilled in July and August to work, precisely, on urgent issues that did not allow delay, as is the present transposition. Only 52 Members were willing to do so, the 52 of VOX. A total of 124 deputies from the 176necessaries were missing. You all know the result. We are faced with the first judgment in which the Court of Justice of the European Union imposes both types of economic sanctions under Article 260(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union at the same time. It is a very harsh sentence for non-compliance, a sentence issued precisely under this social-communist government. Spain and the Spanish are discredited. This is why, as a result of the haste and the judgments, we are being brought here today a text that has been washed up, misadjusted and without order, with references to previous paragraphs, demonstrating a clear patchwork on the way, to such an extent that it is necessary to modify such fundamental normative bodies as the Organic Statute of the Ministry of the Judiciary and the Organic Law of the Judiciary and it is also done by amendment, incorporating into the final provision a final provision bis and a ter, which denotes a clear technical legislative fault and also carried out in an unexpected part. Let us not forget that the directive transposed into the draft law combines a dual purpose. On the one hand, to facilitate the effectiveness of both police and judicial cooperation at European and international level for the success of investigations and criminal proceedings, and on the other hand, the protection and defence of citizens' rights, in particular the right to privacy enshrined in Article 18.4 of the Spanish Constitution. In the same explanatory statement for this draft, it is clear that the directive transposed was adopted in response to the growing security threats in the national and international context, which in many cases has a cross-border component. Let us hope that this protection and cooperation in data processing will be used to prevent fugitives from the sovereign justices of different nations from finding refuge in places where they should be immediately detained and made available to the authorities, such as Puigdemont and his followers. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-15-CD210415.u24	Thank you, Mr. Calvo. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Serrada Pariente has the floor for the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-15-CD210415.u25	Thank you very much, President. Mr Bal - I do not see you now -, I think you are campaigning now in Madrid, and the truth is that you notice, what happens is that when you campaign too, gentlemen of Citizens, you must be a little more rigorous when it comes to saying things and when you make some accusations about falsifying reports because, man, you had the opportunity here to recriminate the People's Party for the misuse of the Ministry of the Interior and what you did was to abstain from the opinion of that Committee of Inquiry. [[Applauds]] Therefore, Lords of Citizens, Mr Edmundo, 'Madrileños por Edmundo', stop campaigning and focus on what you have to focus on today. Thank you very much, Minister, for the work you are doing at the head of the Ministry of the Interior, which has to do, above all, to restore dignity in a fundamental ministry, a ministry of State and a ministry that must ensure the security, freedom and trust of all Spaniards. Thank you very much, Minister. [[Applauds]] Mr. Pedreño, what a premiere you've had today. I think either you've been misinformed, or you wanted to misinformed us, one of the two things. You were talking about taking up hair, but if you have taken our hair here clearly stating that it has not been you who have failed to comply with the deadlines for transposing this law, but it has been you, Mr Pedreño. [[Rumors]] You have overlooked some things that have happened in our country over this period of time and many of them have to do with you and your management. You have overlooked that there have been electoral cycles, you have overlooked that this House has not had a parliamentary activity, but, above all, and the most damaging thing that you have done today, is to overlook that we are facing the worst economic, health and social moment that is going through our country and that the activity of this House, Mr Pedreño, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, has to do above all with rescuing people, rescuing people, implementing laws and measures that accompany the rescue of these people, gentlemen of the People's Party. [[applause]] I believe that the Committee on the Interior has done a magnificent job over this period of time. Of the five organic laws that have moved this House and that have been approved, one comes from the Internal Commission, but today we approve the second organic law of this legislature - the sixth - that has to do with the Internal Commission, because when in Congress we dedicate ourselves to doing our work, to reaching agreements, to legislate, society advances; because when the Ministry of the Interior is dedicated to what it has to do, that is to guarantee the free exercise of the rights and freedoms of the Spaniards, society advances; because when the Ministry of the Interior is dedicated to eliminating police bars, cleaning in our democracy is beyond doubt, and because when the Ministry of the Interior is dedicated to protecting, helping and defending the forces and bodies of State security, its salaries are increased by 20%, more than 5000 police and civilian guards are called, a plan of infrastructure is developed with more than 600 million euros or investments are increased for the purchase of more than 18,000 vests or new police vehicles. Ladies and gentlemen, this is to support the State Security Forces and Bodies, not what you are doing, right-wing gentlemen. I am already focusing on the rule that we adopted today at the Congress of Deputies, a necessary rule, a rule that puts us on the road to other European countries such as France, Italy, Portugal and the United Kingdom in terms of the control and protection of personal data. Moreover, we can say that with this normative text we are putting ourselves at the forefront of many of these countries, of many countries in our environment, especially with regard to the revision and the elimination of these personal data. In addition, we provide and give security forces and bodies and judges and prosecutors a fundamental tool that will improve their work in the prevention, investigation, prosecution or enforcement of criminal sanctions, but also the prosecution of crimes such as terrorism, gender-based violence or crimes related to another important law that we are debating today, such as the protection of our minors. But above all, this law will allow citizens to have the necessary confidence and legal guarantee as to who, how and why the data are collected and this, and here, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party and ladies and gentlemen of VOX, has nothing to do with the General Council of the Judiciary, this is not part of the problem of the General Council of the Judiciary. How will amendments to a legislative text have to do with the substantive problem of the General Council of the Judiciary? If the problem is yours, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party! The problem is the sabotage they are doing in the reform of necessary institutional and constitutional bodies in our country. Ladies and gentlemen, we are going to vote against all the amendments that you have tabled, mainly because throughout the text of the presentation we have reached out to all the parliamentary groups so that we can reach agreements and draft compromise amendments that enrich the normative text that we are presenting today. We believe that the amendments tabled or even the individual votes do not bring a substantial improvement to this text. Finally, I wanted to make a reference and thank your ladies and gentlemen from all the parliamentary groups for a technical correction that has been made in Article 2(3) because of consistency with the incorporation of Amendment 36 from our parliamentary group. And, finally, of course, I would like to thank all the staff of the House, who have facilitated the work, both in the paper and in the Commission, and above all the work done by the Commission's lawyers. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-15-CD210415.u26	Thank you very much, Mr Serrada. On behalf of the Government, I have the floor of the Minister of the Interior. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-15-CD210415.u27	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, very briefly and from a technical point of view, I would like to thank the group of Members for the diligence in the urgent procedure of this preliminary draft organic law transposing Directive 2016/680. From a technical point of view, I would like to state - in the light of the allusions that have been made - that it should have been transposed in May 2018. This Government arrived on 7 June 2018 and the legislative process had not even begun. It must be acknowledged that this government - through the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Presidency, Relations with the Courts and Democratic Memory - made a real study of all the European Union's rules that had not been transposed, in all fields and in all rules. You are aware of the various royal omnibus decree-laws that had to be issued to transpose very many directives and decisions, whose transposition time had already ended, and it is a top concern of this Government, as you have seen. There are rules that have greater difficulties, such as those that must be dealt with by organic law, such as the issue that is being discussed today, Directive 2016/680, and as previously happened with Directive 2016/681, the one known as the PNR Directive, another organic law that was also approved by the government that had not previously had any legislative procedure, even though it should also have been transposed in May 2018. In order to resolve all these issues, the government signed an agreement months ago, from which a committee has been set up to effectively and directly monitor all EU legislation, because this government - the government of the Socialist Party and the United Nations - we really care about the right of the Union to integrate, as Mr Bal has said. This interministerial commission and the government is responsible for monitoring the European Union's regulatory production since it is being developed to, first, have a stake in and see how it can affect us in our legal system, how far we can go - i.e. that the administration is involved in the negotiation directly - and then to make the transposition much faster. That is agreed by the Government so that these things do not happen again. As I said, I am not going to intervene in any other area, but only in this strictly technical area. That is why I would like to thank you for having been able to process this preliminary draft organic law, in spite of the events, of the resolutions we have had in the last legislatures, of the last year of the pandemic, which has meant that all the procedures and all the reports of the institutions to be reported on must be reinitiated: the General Council of the Judiciary, the Fiscal Council and the Council of State. I would like to thank all of them, for the same reasons, for their work, especially the Council of State, which did a very important job. I would like once again to thank the Committee on the Interior and its colleagues for this important step towards minimizing the damage that has been done. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-15-CD210415.u28	Thank you very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-15-CD210415.u29	We move on to the debate on the opinion of the draft Organic Law on Comprehensive Protection of Children and Adolescents from Violence. To defend the amendments to this legislative initiative, Mrs Aizpurua Arzallus has the floor by the Parliamentary Group Euskal Herria Bildu.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-15-CD210415.u30	Egun on. Good morning. Eskerrik asko, president. I begin by highlighting how good this bill contains. This draft law on children and adolescents comes here today with qualitative advances in relation to the article that came into the paper and then to the Commission. I would like to remind you that you have come to bring in well-founded criticism, mainly because of the lack of a gender perspective and a child-centred approach. After his presentation, the Commission has been corrected and much improved. One of these improvements is the prohibition of the so-called parental alienation syndrome, that false syndrome, that fallacy which is adjectived as a parent and which, however, applies only to mothers, to those mothers who suffer in their own flesh the injustice of being involved in a diabolical circle by which their custody of their children is withdrawn without any margin to defend themselves. Because there is no human way to defend oneself from something that does not exist, there is no rational way to defend oneself in a battle that is fought against absurdity. And yet there is one who has given the battle, and on behalf of all the women who deliver it I will speak of one who represents them all. Stay with the name: Irune Costumero, she is a vizcaine and if you are interested in her history you will know how life becomes a perpetual hell from the moment when not justice, but the social services of an institution like the Diputación de Vizcaya, applied that phony syndrome and removed her custody of her daughter, and it is now three years old. This bill is good news for so many Irunes Customero in this state, because from its entry into force no one will be able to use SAP as a legal argument; let it go for them because stetriumph, because they have earned it at the cost of a lot of suffering. [[The lady]] Of course, the substantial improvements made by this law do not end there; there are many, but I will cite only three examples, such as the elimination of shared custody in cases of gender-based violence, the right of children to be informed and the extension of the statute of limitations for offences against children, and yes, many more issues. So I say again that the bill has improved but, ladies and gentlemen, it is better. And among the negative aspects I would point out a loud absence, a flagrant error and a conscious oblivion. Clamorous absence refers to institutional violence, which occurs from within the systems of protection against minors who are under the supervision of the Administration. Not wanting to acknowledge that there is not going to eliminate such violence in the form of abuses, pressures and situations of defencelessness, which violate the rights of children and adolescents. The denunciation of institutional abuse from the protection structures themselves is a combat of many groups working with children, but this time it also seems that it will remain unattended. The obvious error is that it gives social services the status of agents of authority. Social service professionals, who mostly do a great deal of work, have a non-specific professional profile in matters related to childhood and child abuse. This is a fact, with which it is dangerous to increase their powers because moreover, by allowing them to act freely in emergency situations - indeed, the concept of urgency given by the law is not defined, with which there is a very diffuse and excessively open and interpretable field - a situation is generated that opens the door to decisions that can be irreversible. We have been very insistent on this issue, because it seems to us to be a tremendous mistake. That is why we maintain this amendment, among others. We believe that there are decisions to be made by the judges, ladies and gentlemen, and the mere fact that the possibility is opened, even temporarily, that this is not so, poses a huge risk of rights violations for boys and girls. I now come to the conscious forgetfulness, which by conscience is even more regrettable, the conscious forgetfulness related to violence against children resulting from eviction procedures. Forced evictions, in addition to being a traumatic experience, a violent experience, allude directly to the violation of the rights of children. The law must protect them, and this childhood law does not. There are other issues that can be improved, but I focus on the weighty reasons, and I add the last one to argue our inability to vote in favour of this law. If the last heading was that of conscious oblivion, this could be something like that of the constant trend, because it is a continuous and persistent desire that has any Government of this Spanish State, governs who also governs, to forget a question as basic as that the laws that are drafted should not involve a competitive invasion, and this law invades competences recognized by the statutes of autonomy of the Basque and Navarra Autonomous Communities in at least seven articles, in matters relating to the educational, health and police fields. Ladies and gentlemen, at the last title of the law, at the fifteenth final provision, there are many exceptions to be noted so that it can be a law that is correct and in line with the rights of the two Autonomous Communities of Euskal Herria in the Spanish State. So, in the face of this thesis, we cannot vote that yes, for all these reasons that I have pointed out and some more that we have left out through amendments. But obviously we can't vote no, and we can't do it porters and so many Irunes Costumero, for so many underprivileged, so many vulnerable teenagers, and because we know of the need and the urgency to legislate in this area. That's why, thanks for the lights that Staley wears, that he has and there are many, I repeat it again, but he also has shadows. And by those lights and by those shadows our vote is going to be that of abstention. I admit it, we do it with a bitter feeling, because - I sincerely say - I would have liked to be able to vote yes to this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-15-CD210415.u31	Thank you very much, Mrs. Aizpurua. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Barandiaran Benito has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]] [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-15-CD210415.u32	Good morning, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Aizpurua said a moment ago, but I was also told a moment ago by the rapporteur and spokesman for the Socialist Party on the subject, who was very sorry that we were not going to vote in favour of this initiative, and we are not going to do so with a great deal of heartache, because we understand that it is a law that provides the whole of child protection with parameters that we not only share, but we replicate. I'll explain it another way. We will vote in favour of this law when it is a product of the Basque Parliament. However, it happens that the great problem with this law is that the package of measures that are being implemented through this project confirms a trend, as Mrs Aizpurua has just pointed out, which is that of the competition regression, of the re-centralisation and the direction towards the invasion of competences that successive governments are having in this country. Of course, this means that we must not adopt these measures, we must adopt them, and we will support them where they have to be supported, which we believe is within the Basque Parliament. There are also others that we hope will come out, which are all those relating to the criminal, civil, procedural field, which will obviously have another treatment. However, we cannot vote in favour and we will vote against it, because it is part of a re-centralisation, in a uniforming action that we cannot consent to at the moment. Because this is a problem that must be addressed not only with the best instruments and with all public resources, but also from the administration not only closer, but more effective in solving these problems. If we refer to the text, it turns out that for the adoption of these positive measures in favour of the protection of children, not only those aspects that are clearly the competence of the State - I have pointed out them: the procedural, civil and criminal fields or some others - but also - and by entering already into the text - those of awareness, prevention and early detection, which are not aspects outside the administration that must design these policies, but also when they are intended to implement these measures in the field of education, health care, social services, family services or so many others that are clearly of competence of the autonomous communities. In addition, in this case there is the possibility that an infringement of Article 17 of the Statute of Autonomy of the Basque Country will be involved - we believe it will - when it speaks of the coordination of the local police, which has its own mechanism through this Statute of Autonomy of the Basque Country. Well, I'm just going to give you an example. Among the many measures envisaged is that of family care, where in Euskadi, through the Basque Government and the outlaws, specialized professional care has been chosen. However, two amendments of the People's Party, 415 and 453, have been accepted in the procedure and a compromise has been reached, by which this specialisation has also been extended to extended families. This will mean a modification of the policies that are implemented and successfully already in the Guipúzcoa Provincial Council, for example. That is to say, through a legislative initiative alienating the reality of the problems, far from those who are able to propose these solutions, those policies that are substantively succeeding will be modified. That's what absolutely crazy competitive invasion is, our way of seeing, without any kind of justification, and also ineffective. That is why the appropriate question is whether this law was necessary or, on the contrary, whether it was sufficient to make specific amendments dealing with the object of protection in those aspects which the State must regulate, or whether it was appropriate to respect the normative capacity for the development and execution of those who are on the street giving answers to these and other problems, because, when they are given, it is not up to the organs of the State, in Euskadi they will go to the outlaws and the Basque Government to give them concrete answers, in accordance with the experience they have and the specialization they have obtained in this matter. With all due respect, we believe that the objective of protection is not achieved by the imposition of normative texts such as this, which, in addition to invading autonomous competences, are ineffective for the purpose they pursue, since uniformity is never the right tool to address these specific realities. Thus, the truth is that all the groups in the field of the paper have recognized that the law was passing a little, and so has the Constitutional Court itself. The State does not have every power to address in the manner in which it does so in the Decree-Law a regulation that virtually ignores the existence of autonomous administrations with powers over a large part of these matters. And of course, the competition titles referred to in Article 149.1.1(a), 149.1.2(a) and 149.1.18(a) cannot extend their regulatory effects with the intensity of this project, because that means neutralising the invasion of autonomous competences. Well, ladies and gentlemen, I repeat that in this context - and I am also going to follow the script that Mrs Aizpurua has used - with a great deal of heartache and understanding that she has positive measures, not only can we not vote in favour, but we have to do so in order to deal once and for all with this re-centralizing trend of the State in matters that are clearly autonomous competences. We are obliged to vote against it, saying, however, that it has measures that are highly positive - I repeat the first thing I said - and hoping that many of these measures will be replicated in a draft law that is, by the way, included in the legislative timetable of the Basque Government, which has committed itself to the Basque Parliament - in addition, in line with and in agreement with the party which is in the Basque Government, which is one of the proponents and which is also here in the Government - to send in September a draft law on the protection of the rights of children and adolescents. That is where we will vote for this protection because, although we understand that much of it is replicated and overlapped, it is the administrations closest to it that know best about the matter and that they must give this protection, precisely because its effectiveness also depends on it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-15-CD210415.u33	Thank you very much, Mr Barandiaran. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Giménez Giménez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-15-CD210415.u34	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are talking about advancing rights. This organic law, which we are debating today, represents an important legislative step forward in the protection of children and adolescents from a major social scourge such as violence. In addition, we comply with international standards, the Convention on the Rights of the Child and what its committee has told us, and we respond to a great need that had been transferred to us by the third sector entities in this area, to which I would like from here to thank you for your efforts, your dedication and all the work that you have been transferring to us during our parliamentary work. It is a law that is designed for our children, who are one of the most vulnerable sectors of the population and who require all our efforts to ensure their development, as mandated by the Constitution. Ladies and gentlemen, I encourage you to continue along this path, because, although I believe that this rule is a great step forward and a good start, we have great issues ahead when we talk about child protection in our country. There are greater challenges that we can face after adopting this regulation, which I hope will be adopted with a great consensus; I think it deserves consensus because we are talking about protecting children from the fundamental rights violations of minors with a guaranteed law. Can it be a law to improve? Clearly, all the regulations are to be improved, but we have to have broad views when we are talking about violence against children and a legal framework like the one we are debating today. From here, what are the following challenges? Well, we are talking about violence and I believe that one of the greatest scourges of violence we have in our country today - and you already know what the great data are on this subject - is poverty. I believe that our second challenge is to address child poverty, because it is one of the major indicators of inequality in our country and we need to make progress in social protection measures for children. We must guarantee the resources necessary to implement this law, and that is why we in my group have maintained an amendment which I consider to be fundamental, and that there is a budgetary guarantee. When we talk about defending rights, when we talk about equality, when we talk about the social sphere, we have examples of very well-realised rules which, if they are not accompanied by the necessary budget, are left on wet paper. Ladies and gentlemen, this rule should not be left on wet paper, let alone much less. There must therefore be a budgetary guarantee. I do not want the same to happen as with the rule of dependence, which, due to budget deficits, has often not given the necessary response. [[The lady]] It is vital that we talk about what this legislation means and it is vital that we take account of its progress. The child is informed and listened to. The legal procedures will be improved, which represents a step forward in terms of their protection. The reality of children in situations of greater vulnerability is taken into account. There are children who have negative added values, because they are in poverty, because they are LGBTBI children or because they are Roma children. These cross-sectoral discrimination situations in which some minors can be found are already covered by the norm. I think it is important, after the great and intense negotiations we have had with the governing parties, that the rule itself should include, for example, a significant improvement, which I am really proud of, such as the six to twelve months extension of the administration's cessation of guardianship when a child escapes. This has been thanks to parliamentary work. What have we got too? That the statute of limitations - it has been negotiated until the last moment with the compañera Luisa - is extended to thirty-five years, that is, that it begins to count the statute of limitations for the denunciation of this type of offences when the victim is thirty-five years old. We asked for forty and we have achieved thirty-five, but it is that parliamentary work requires will and agreement, will to achieve improvements, especially on issues of this kind. This is what we should all demand on issues like the one we have on the table. If we are not able to see the usefulness of the agreement and the search for solutions, we would not solve anything. That is why I am pleased today, as we have all been able to manage our proposals, our parliamentary work, our work in the Commission and our work in the paper to reach great agreements, which are ultimately going to benefit the children and adolescents of our country. We must not forget what the horizon of the rules is, we must not forget what we are paid for or what we are here for. These are issues that must be very clear today. We must continue to make progress, ladies and gentlemen, on this budgetary improvement. We also need to address a good anti-poverty strategy, so that the boys and girls of our country can truly overcome those situations of violence. These would be the main issues that my political party will continue to maintain and on which it will continue to work. Another of the main issues is that of care centres, where we have increased control. There can be no situations of violence within the centres themselves, as we have seen with the children of Mallorca and the Balearic Islands. I am sorry that this has not yet been investigated by the PSOE and the Union Podemos. This rule places a parapet on such situations and a parapet to move minors to any risk situation. In short, as there are more pros than cons and as we believe in their usefulness and in the defence of minors and the guarantee of fundamental rights, our parliamentary group will support this rule. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-15-CD210415.u35	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, first of all, Mr Rego Candamil.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-15-CD210415.u36	Thank you very much, Madam President. The processing of a comprehensive child protection bill against violence is an old demand from people, associations, agencies and authorities who work daily with children who are victims of violence and I believe that of society as a whole. A forecast was called for to regulate all aspects related to violence in children, and to address its multidimensional nature. We would logically like Galicia to have full legislative and managerial capacity, in this as in other areas, to adopt the necessary rules for such an important objective as the comprehensive protection of children and, of course, we regret and reject the competitive invasion that takes place there. In any case, the text incorporates novel and positive aspects, such as the so-called "parental alienation syndrome", the increase in the limitation period for offences, beginning at the age of thirty, now at the age of thirty-five, as well as the obligation to communicate any signs of violence also within the family sphere. A specific response to cyberbullying is given, including age or aporophobia among the causes of discrimination in hate crimes. Another of the issues that we consider to be positive is the regulation to avoid revictimization in court proceedings, as it establishes the mandatory pre-established evidence for persons under the age of fourteen and minors with disabilities who require special protection. It also establishes access to treatment and rehabilitation, including comprehensive mental health. The initial text had shortcomings which, to a large extent, were not entirely corrected during the course of the amendment procedure, a process to which the BNG also contributed, since our contributions to the text were diverse, improving some of the definitions, guaranteeing the right to be heard by minors, the establishment of comprehensive prevention and redress measures, the provision of information to minors during the process, which is understandable and in their own language, support for families or improvement in the protocols for action in the field of education, health care, or in the treatment by the State Security Forces and Bodies, among others. However, we still cannot endorse some aspects of the text, especially some important ones, which, although they have been nuanced, are still present. We are concerned, for example, about the introduction of the controversial figure of the parent coordinator, in article 27, despite the fact that there is now talk of a psychosocial cabinet. We also believe it is essential to prevent any contact between minors and aggressors during the process, and that interventions should be limited to the essentials and byexperts always. This, regrettably, is not assured; this possibility has been introduced, but it remains to the discretion of the judicial body. Alongside these, there are other aspects already mentioned that we share, such as institutional violence or the treatment of the civil service of social services. In any case, we believe that this rule - I conclude - represents an important step forward in comprehensive child protection policies, so we will vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-15-CD210415.u37	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much. For the same group, Mr Miquel i Valentí has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-15-CD210415.u38	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. This is a law more than expected. It was in 2016 when this House voted to create a Committee on Children's Rights, which we support many of the groups we are here today - I see the minister celebrating it - and the law was already on the horizon, it was a goal to achieve. We understood that the creation of the Commission should serve as a platform for pushing forward a law such as that which is coming to this House today, and that is why we welcome the adoption of a law such as this. It is because protecting the weakest, and especially the weak within the weak, must be the goal of any liberal democracy, and we believe that this is our goal, as other colleagues pointed out before. We have focused our amendments to this law on the protection and shielding of the children of this country in judicial proceedings. For us, it was very important, and it was also important for various State Law schools, that during judicial proceedings the child had the least possible turbulence. We have managed to deal only with one of the amendments we have tabled in this respect, which in some ways satisfies us, but knows us little by little. We share the concern of the EH Bildu Group in its amendment 11 and that is why we have supported it and continue to support it despite the fact that we believe it will not be incorporated into the final text of the law. Ladies and gentlemen, it makes it very difficult for us to vote against the law for the proposals that are incorporated into it, but it is true that we find it a little difficult to vote in favour of competition issues. That is why, finally, my group is going to abstain from the text of this law as a way of asserting the content and the proposals that are incorporated in it, but also as a way of asserting the freedoms and the competence of State administrations. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-15-CD210415.u39	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much. Mrs Muñoz Dalda has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podem-Galicia in common.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-15-CD210415.u40	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the greatest abuse suffered by children and adolescents in this country has been oblivion, and today that is over, it is over; it is over. Violence against children and adolescents is no longer a private matter and it becomes a public matter for the whole of society to take charge of this execrable reality. We have been able to do so with macho violence and now we are going to do so with violence against children and adolescents, because protecting children and adolescents is a duty of the public authorities, and this law, the Rhodes law, the law on comprehensive protection of children and adolescents from violence, seeks precisely to respond to the obligation that we have to guarantee the right of any child and adolescent to grow and live free from all forms of violence. Anyone who is listening to this debate may wonder if we no longer have laws protecting children, and yes, of course we did, but they are not being effective enough, and they have been denouncing it for many years now activists, families, children's organizations, experts, many people we want to thank from the United Nations We can all the tireless work that they have done for years and years to make this Congress today green this law, a law proposed collectively, with fundamental contributions from experts from different public administrations and civil society organizations. This law marks a time before and after in the protection of children and adolescents in Spain. With it we meet the most demanding international standards set out in the Convention on the Rights of the Child, the Treaty of Lisbon, our own Constitution and make decisive progress towards the achievement of the 2030 Sustainable Development Goals. I would even venture to say that we can become a global reference in this area, because it is a law with a comprehensive and gender-based approach, and this is something new and necessary to advance the eradication of all forms of violence against children and adolescents. It is a law that establishes the duty to communicate situations of violence against children and adolescents of all citizens and especially of collectives who usually work with children and adolescents, and we hope that this measure will promote rejection of violence and impunity. It also strengthens the right to information and advice, the right to be heard, comprehensive care, the right to intervene in judicial proceedings and the right to free legal assistance. In this sense, I will give you some examples. The reporting of children should be recognized without the need to assess their maturity. It establishes the need for evidence to prevent the revictimization and prescription of serious crimes will begin to be calculated when the victim, or rather a survivor, reaches the age of thirty-five. As a law with a comprehensive approach, mechanisms for prevention, awareness-raising, training and protection and participation are provided in various fields such as family, education, health, social services, security forces and bodies, in production centres, in the field of leisure and sport and in the judicial field. For example, the basic content of protection protocols is developed in centres for the protection of minors. In coordination with the education reform, the coordinator of welfare and protection in educational institutions is created and its basic functions are defined to ensure the proper functioning of the action protocols in relation to signs of school harassment, cyberbullying, sexual harassment, gender-based violence and any other form of violence. The role of the protection delegate is created in entities carrying out sports or leisure activities with minors in order to inform and support children and adolescents in the implementation of the protocols for dealing with violence. It is established that the security forces and bodies at the state, autonomous and local levels have units specialized in awareness-raising and prevention of situations of violence against minors. The practice of proceedings involving minors is reduced to what is strictly necessary. The need for specialized training is also regulated, especially in judicial and prosecutorial careers. The development of a future bill for the specialization of courts and prosecution of violence against children is envisaged. Some improvements that we have developed during the presentation will enable the law to be endowed with a marked gender perspective that it previously lacked. Non-scientific approaches, such as so-called parental alienation syndrome, are prevented from discrediting the testimonies of boys and girls. Preventive measures include measures to promote equal relations between boys and girls. A new specific article is included to protect children in situations of gender-based violence in the family. Comprehensive care is provided for the recovery of child victims of violent crimes of a sexual and/or gender-based nature or the possibility of joint custody is eliminated in the event of evidence of gender-based violence. Other amendments add particular elements not yet considered, but also of relevance, such as the obligation for the Government to carry out a policy development for the establishment of a common procedure for determining the age of children and adolescents who migrate alone or the obligation for the Government to carry out a policy change on the application of containment measures in child protection centres. In this minute that I have left, I would like to ask our government partners to reconsider their sense of vote or the way in which we have to accommodate two amendments that we can make to the United Nations. In the first place, we proposed to them to ban the entry of minors to bull shows. This idea, there are other groups we agree with and we have signed a compromise amendment, you have not seen it clear, but it is you who decide when you want to comply with the recommendations of the Committee on the Rights of the Child. Secondly, the issue of housing solutions for families with dependent children. It is true that the law contains a paragraph in which we propose that adequate housing solutions be prioritized in cases of eviction or release to families with minors, but our amendment goes a little further and it seems to me that it is consumable because it is also a recommendation of the Social and Economic Committee and I believe that the most important thing to highlight, although there are other elements, is that the judge conduct a proportionality trial before authorizing such a release or eviction, that he values the situation and that he evaluates what consequences it would have for that child who leaves his home. I'm running out of time. I am very proud that we have managed to translate a social consensus into a very broad political consensus and I would like to say a few words of thanks to the president of the paper, to the lawyer and to all and to all the rapporteurs because I believe that there has been a very good willingness on the part of most groups to reach agreements and, after much study, debate and dialogue, we have managed to substantially improve the original text. So thank you for the love and working hours we have dedicated to this text, which I hope we all feel like ours. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-15-CD210415.u41	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] He would be responsible for defending his amendments to the Republican Parliamentary Group. However, given the situation of that parliamentary group and as noted in the Board of Spokesmen, if there were no inconvenience, its amendments would be defended. [[Consent]] Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. For the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mrs López has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-15-CD210415.u42	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Woman, granddaughter, daughter, sister, friend, journalist, partner, deputy, mainly I am a mother. [[Applauds]] And today, you who do not defend life from your conception, want to clear your consciences with this project of protection to childhood and adolescence. Progressive paradoxes! Protecting children is not about promoting abortion, that is violence; violence against a mother's life, against a baby's life and against mothers who are given no help to face the great experience of their life. [[Applauds]] Because there is nothing, absolutely nothing, like this image, this image that remains engraved on a mother's retina by giving birth to a life, life. [[shows the image of a baby]] Since there is nothing like the hug of a child, there is absolutely nothing comparable to the joy and goodness of a child. [[Applauds]] There is nothing like your clean gaze and your simple heart, which you, with this law, want to stain on the basis of ideology, threatening once again the family for that very reason, because the family is the sanctuary of life, of values and of what you want to destroy, which is the tradition of forming a family. According to article 3 (b) of this bill, families are to be accompanied by positive parenting tools. Is it positive parenting that parents have to educate on content related to sexual and gender diversity? Is it positive parenting that parents cannot choose whether or not they want their children to receive in schools at any age affective-sexual education? For example, this education in the collection of guides on sexual and reproductive rights of young women from the Canary Institute of Equality, is this what you want to promote, at any age? [[shows a document]] This is violence against the innocence of children. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, families in general do not need to be accompanied, but, of course, you introduce this concept with the connotation that it is supervised and protected by power, with a positive parenthood contrary to the freedom of education that parents want for their children and which, of course, does not take into account the best interests of the child. And you have sweated the fat drop in one of the sessions of the paper to justify whether or not certain public officials have the power to separate a child from their parents, ignoring even the recommendations of the United Nations that it be a judge to adopt or review the separations of a child from his or her environment. They bring us a law on the protection of children and adolescents in which they strive to introduce the terms boys and girls - life has gone on them - as well as again and again their pact with the devil of gender and in the process of depossession they have also tried to enhance that anti-family culture. You say in this organic bill that all - all - parents need support to properly develop their parental responsibilities. This stale how to say that the Spaniards do not know how to educate their children and that you have the magic pacima to combat cases of violence against children with the simple fact of robbing parents of the constitutionally recognized right that their children receive the religious and moral training that is in accordance with their own convictions, saying at the same time to those parents that if they do not educate their children that men should apologize for having been born boys - because you consider that they are potential murderers, abusers and rapists and that girls are the worthless victims that a man will always want to hurt -, that if they do not educate according to that idea they are bad parents. [[applause]] It is another irreversible harm to the freedom of parents over their children because of their ideological monster of gender perspective, which is for you their only religion and which seeks only to break with the identity of the family and engage our children in guardianship by the State. [[Applauds]] Among other progressive incoherences, we find that today they bring for their adoption in plenary a law on the protection of children which regulates the intervention in cases of sexual exploitation of children under guardianship when months ago they left minors in Majorca unprotected and refused to investigate the case. You have a hangover of cynicism that even with a prayer of rosaries - it would not be wrong for you to pray it, by the way - you will be able to cleanse your conscience... [[laughs]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-15-CD210415.u43	Quiet, please. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-15-CD210415.u44	... nor, of course, will the gentlemen of Bildu be able to do so, because today, at the height of incoherence, we have had to listen to the representative of Bildu defend her position in relation to this law and the rights of children. And the right to life taken from these children? [[Shows a list.-Applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, on the stand]] A hug. A hug from my parliamentary group to the families of these thirty children killed by the terrorist band ETA. I'm done. Stop trying to wreak havoc on the cradles of children who do not belong to them and dedicate their efforts to defending the right of parents to educate their children in the values they choose. Stop creating licenses like this law, which, disguised as protection, is only created to educate you in the image of what you represent: destruction of the family, of life and of Spain. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-15-CD210415.u45	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs García Rodríguez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-15-CD210415.u46	Good morning. Thank you, President. I want to start with the thanks. First, Maria de la O Redondo for her work and companionship, Marga Prohens, lawyer José María Codes for her support and the rest of the speakers. And especially for children's organisations, I would like to thank you for your interest and your dialogue with the People's Party during these months. It was precisely the Committee on the Rights of the Child, at the request of the organizations, and in particular the Unicef and Save the Children platform, which recommended that Spain adopt a specific law on violence against children. I would like to recall the commitment of the People's Party to promote two laws in 2015 to strengthen precisely the child and adolescent protection system, which was a very important step forward in our protection system, recognized by the UN Committee on the Rights of the Child in its reports. It should also be remembered that in 2017 it was the People's Party, in collaboration with experts, children's organizations and universities, that initiated the work of the organic bill that is being debated today. This law comes late, very late, and I will not deny that this law has suffered a motion of censure, various electoral processes and a pandemic, but it is also late for the lack of political will of a monocolor government initially and the scant or no contribution of others, as is the party Podemos, because I want to remember that the former vice president Pablo Iglesias, who tried to appropriate this law, took a photo, baptized it and did no more. It is a law that is endorsed by 500 000 Spanish signatures and is a timely and necessary law. Violence against children remains hidden and in some cases is even tolerated, with devastating consequences for those who suffer it. It is a law that should challenge us all and that should be of all, but especially of them. [[Applauds]] The People's Party has tabled almost 150 amendments, almost 25% of the total, and we have been accepted by one in three, which I appreciate, but we would have liked more receptivity on the part of this government, a government divided into two, as we were able to see today also with this law, because of its lack of agreements until the last minute, its division and its lack of harmony, which has involved several changes and bandages that have helped little in the process of this law. But it is true that the People's Party, with our serious and responsible work, which has been aimed at improving prevention, awareness, specialization, early care, early detection of crime - so important -, proposing safe environments to prevent situations and, if they occur, being prepared to identify them and treat them in the most appropriate way because from the People's Party we think that caring for the victims is too late. Neither can there be disdain or negligence when we talk about protecting minors. We have proposed decisive actions to strengthen the communication and coordination systems of all actors, to improve the dissemination of protocols and to ensure comprehensive and specialized attention. The People's Party has incorporated into the law the specialization of professionals, continuous training and training plans and programmes with the aim of early detection of violence and the implementation of tools for children to identify and detect such violence. We have achieved this, but we would have liked it more, and we would have liked the law to have a disability approach and to ensure that all measures to provide comprehensive care have an inclusive and accessible approach. One question. If you knew that a minor child goes with his or her mother, for example, to the health services and detects ill-treatment or abuse, do you think that child is in a position to return home without a decision to allow it or without an assessment? Well, the People's Party has succeeded, not fully, but it has succeeded in ensuring that, when the common protocol on health care is developed, it is addressed that, if there is an admission to a juvenile hospital where there is suspicion or evidence of serious ill-treatment, hospital discharge will not be effective until resolution is received and the case has been assessed. [[Applauds]] The People's Party has insisted on its amendments to strengthen protection centres and resources as safe environments with common mechanisms of action, with tools to allow the reporting of children and adolescents, so we have proposed to develop protocols with the aim of avoiding escapes from these centres, but they have not accepted it and this is essential to avoid cases such as the sadly occurring in Baleares and Valencia. Why are you looking somewhere else? Why are you quiet? Because this silence will always accompany you. They have left these girls alone and, with our amendments, have lost the opportunity to improve attention and intervention and to respond to these situations. Also for cases of sexual exploitation and trafficking. We have proposed to articulate specialized places for the care of these victims and we have accepted specialized services but not places. And I ask myself: do you think that with the law it will be enough to prevent cases like those of Baleares and Valencia from happening again? Another issue of concern to the Popular Group, but also to families, is access to adult content, pornography. According to the Family Watch barometer, for 74% of families it would be desirable that when you hire an Internet line it would come by default with limited access to certain content. We have proposed - it has been estimated and we appreciate it - the creation of secure digital environments and the implementation of age verification protocols so that families can protect their children and prevent them from accessing content for adults who in no way help their development as people. In countries such as France and Italy they are more advanced, and Spain must go the same way and the People's Party has put its amendment in order for this to happen. You have rejected our amendments aimed at creating a special jurisdiction for children, families and capacities; special duty for children; ensuring that children's development in the family environment is continued, as well as funding for public administrations with competence in this field. His answer has been the usual: I invite and you pay. And I finish, with a memory, Mary Ellen Wilson, 1874, New York. For her and for so many as she the mere existence of this law makes sense. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-15-CD210415.u47	Thank you very much. Mr Mazón Ramos has the floor at the turn of the Joint Parliamentary Group. [[Pause.-A working lady of the cleaning service proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-15-CD210415.u48	Thank you very much. Good morning, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, this law is very necessary to combat the sufferings of all kinds that unjustly suffer many children and adolescents in the world, and of course in Spain. It has many aspects, but I'm just going to do echo-like as I've been asked from a cantabrian association, Tolerance 0 to Bullying Cantabria - reading to them the writing that your president has sent me. We have all lived closely in cases like these in our lives and that is why this letter will not be alien to us. I just want to say that it was written in reference to the bill that came to this House and that it has been greatly improved by its handling in the Commission. I also want to say that we will vote in favour. [[The lady]] Ladies and gentlemen, from the Tolerance 0 Association to the Bullying Cantabria, we are addressing you to convey our concern to you about the situation in which many minors are in our country. Anne, Peter, Julia, Adrian, Mary, Paul, no one is saved; in any school, public or private, in any neighborhood, in any city, they could have received help, they could have been heard, but it was not so. School harassment - suffered by some, exercised by others and so invisible by many - can become a real nightmare for those who suffer it. It is impossible to write and pass on to them every story we have heard in these active years from many children and their families; completely heartbreaking stories, stories of self-injury, suicidal thoughts, suicides, broken children at such an early age that they fear returning to school, but I am practically sure that all of you have heard some unpleasant story about the experience of someone you know at school, some of your children's colleagues, some of your co-workers or even yourselves have been able to suffer something similar. The Spanish Constitution declares Spain as a social and democratic state governed by law, which must guarantee the well-being of all its citizens; nevertheless, a fundamental part of them are sometimes forgotten; the most vulnerable, those without a voice, the minors. School harassment is not a child's game, it's not nonsense, it's not an ideology struggle, it's not a pulse of power, it's not a law. School harassment is a real and continuous problem and with good legislation can drastically reduce its incidence and perhaps someday with educational reforms Spain can say that school harassment in its classrooms has a minimal incidence. I would be very saddened that the project you are carrying out, the one known as Rhodes Law, although protecting minors in many other areas will somehow leave children in school unprotected in the face of such a complicated, difficult and painful situation as is the school harassment, that instead of becoming visible every day a little more normalized both inside and outside schools. And legislation like this, incomplete in terms of this matter, gives false hope to the phenomenon and does not help to eradicate it. I don't doubt your intentions, they're good. Our children cannot be protected from the current dangers that abound in our society, more in terms of school harassment, as long as the schools continue to be a judge and part of the conflict, as no child can be treated with the impartiality necessary to solve the problem efficiently. We do not just seek to legislate, but do not forget all those minors who are somehow or become involved in situations of school harassment. We must raise awareness, name, educate and less normalize, label and stigmatize and stop deprecating what it means to be a victim. I hope that with our words you understand the importance of protecting minors also in the educational field because once I heard or read that childhood is the playground in which we will live our entire lives. In history they play a great role, don't move on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-15-CD210415.u49	Thank you very much, Mr. Mazón. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. García. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Guerra López has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-15-CD210415.u50	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. 47.6% of crimes against sexual freedom are against minors. Every year 38,000 minors in our country suffer violence, only 20 per cent report it. There are 1 out of 5 complaints; 4 out of 5 complaints. Or what is the same, out of every 100 children who suffer violence 80 silence that violence. Yes, ladies and gentlemen of VOX, violence against children is not named but exists. You will be able to excuse yourself in the traditional family model to vote against this law, but the only truth is that the same happens to you as to the violence-machista: they deny it because they defend their executioners against the victims. [[Applauds]] Four out of five minors keep quiet, four out of five minors keep quiet, keep quiet for weeks, for months, for years, some will keep quiet all their lives. Many children and adolescents do not dare report because they think we will not believe them; others do not even know how to do so; some think that violence is a common form of relationship; others feel guilty, think that they deserve that violence. Today we are here to defend the law on the protection of children and adolescents from violence, a law that has children and adolescents as legal and political subjects and to which from the Socialist Parliamentary Group we want to send a clear and high message: you are citizens since you were born, you have the right to live in safe environments, where the basis of the human relationship is good treatment, and it is our obligation as public powers, but above all our commitment as a society, to ensure for you and yourselves, to protect yourselves from violence, to come from wherever you come, to carry out it and to occur where it occurs, both in public and private space, in the analogue and digital environment. This law, ladies and gentlemen, marks a before and after in the protection of childhood and adolescence. This law commits us seamlessly to our minors, because with this law we tell you loud and clear that we want to protect you, that we want you to feel safe and secure, that we want you to grow up without violence and live without fear. We will not allow you to bear more time in solitude and silence the weight of violence, simply we will not allow it, because this law does not place a single and exclusive emphasis on attention, but also on prevention, early detection, assistance, counselling, reparation, restoration and awareness-raising against violence. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, we are about to pass a law that is a real milestone. We do not say this, the Socialist Parliamentary Group does not say, this morning Andrés Conde of Save the Children commented, is a law that inherits the spirit of the Convention on the Rights of the Child, a law that adapts the national legislature to international commitments, a law that puts at the center the protection of children and adolescents and the promotion of their full development, the full development of all children and adolescents living in our country; of all, ladies and gentlemen of VOX, come from wherever they come from. [[Applauds]] Many are the rights that this new law incorporates. I will cite some examples only for lack of time. Children and adolescents may report personally and directly. The possibilities of redress for victims of sexual abuse and rape are improved by increasing the limitation period from the age of thirty-five. The pre-established test is mandatory for up to 14 years to avoid secondary victimization. The virtual world is categorised as to the risks that our children and young people have in this area, and I will give you just one thing: 40% of our young people have already suffered virtual sexual harassment, 40%! Of course there is macho violence, ladies and gentlemen of VOX, of course there is, and of course it politicizes; you with your negationism politicize it. [[applause]] That is why, from this parliamentary group, with the equality spokesman, Laura Berja, we have worked to ensure that this law has a feminist perspective. Finally, let me stop you from saying that this law finally puts an end to false parental alienation syndrome and its different mutations. It is no longer possible to apply in our country, it is called as it is called, it declines as it declines, and it also incorporates vicarious violence as a form of violence against boys and girls and, through them, against their mothers. [[Prolonged applause]] And yes, ladies and gentlemen, I will acknowledge that these two achievements have names and surnames, those of our spokesman. Thank you, Adriana. [[Applauds]] We are certainly faced with one of the most involved laws of the Lower House, a law that has taken into account the voice of children's organizations, professional colleges, autonomous communities, local administrations, a law in which we have discussed more than five hundred and seventy amendments, incorporated more than two hundred and we have traded more than seventy, the last, as some people who have preceded me in the use of the word, yesterday. Finally, I would like to thank the rapporteurs, the President of the Commission and the lawyer, because we have managed to create a collective building space in which the best interests of the child have always prevailed, especially my colleagues, Omar Anguita and the soul of this law, Luisa Carcedo. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] I'm done, President. The Malagasy philosopher, María Zambrano, said that democracy is the society in which not only is allowed, but requires being a person. We can say that, with the adoption of this law, our society is more humane, is more democratic and is ultimately a better society, because this law protects children and adolescents...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-15-CD210415.u51	Mrs. War, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-15-CD210415.u52	I'm done, President. ...and because this law wants, never forget, that you grow up without violence and live without fear. Thank you very much. [[Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist and Confederal parliamentary groups of the United Nations, Puedos-En Comú Puedos-Galicia in Communal, stood up]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-15-CD210415.u53	Thank you very much, Mrs. War. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] On behalf of the Government, I call on the Minister for Social Rights and Agenda 2030.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-15-CD210415.u54	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning to everyone and everyone. The truth is that it is an honour for me to take the floor, first of all, as Minister of Social Rights and Agenda 2030 precisely to participate in this parliamentary debate, in the debate of the Rhodes Law, that law of comprehensive protection for children and adolescents from violence, a law that prompted nothing more to take possession of my predecessor, Pablo Iglesias, and which is of enormous importance to our country. First of all, I would like to welcome the children's organisations that are accompanying us and are following the debate today, although they cannot do so for health reasons from the rostrum, but they are here today in this House, and I would particularly like to welcome James Rhodes, who is also accompanying us and following the debate today. [[Applauds]] As you know, James has been a fundamental piece, an essential engine for us to be approving staley today. I want to thank you, James, for your testimony, thank you for being able to do a very difficult thing, which is to turn your pain into changes that will protect other children who suffer what you have suffered. As I said, this is a law that is of vital importance to our country and that, however, like so many other times on children's issues, has had a very high consensus, but a very low intensity. Six years ago, a parliamentary subcommittee of this Congress agreed to urge the Government to adopt a comprehensive law against all forms of violence against children. Three and a half years ago, a non-legislative proposal was adopted unanimously in this Congress, calling for the Government to adopt an integral organic law as a matter of urgency. Children's organizations, as has already been said, have been demanding that our country adopt such a law for years. Therefore, when the team of the Second Vice-President took office we were fully aware, with Pablo Iglesias at the head, that this law was essential, that it had a huge urgency and, therefore, was the first initiative that we took to the Council of Ministers. Soon - at last - this law will be an effective reality and will protect a fundamental right for the children of our country, which is the right to have a free life, a safe life, a life free from violence that will ultimately enable them to be happy. And I think that at a time of tension and friction like the one our country is experiencing, in which there are often heated debates in this House, it is very good news that we can bring this law forward with a very broad consensus, with the support of many parliamentary groups. I want to thank you for the work you did in the paper because, you have to say, working together, we have been able to improve this law and today the law is better than when we brought it to this Congress. I think it is very important to recognise this parliamentary work, but I am going to take the leave to try to convince the parliamentary groups that they have decided to abstain. I want to try to get them to vote in favour precisely because Staley has a fundamental task, which is to send a clear message. This law has a very important role to play: to promote a paradigm shift, a cultural change such as the one already promoted by the Law against Gender Violence in 2004. That role of this law is to send a clear and unequivocal message to the whole of Spanish citizenship that violence against children in any form is not acceptable. [[Applauds]] A democratic society can neither by active nor passive tolerating violence against children, nor physical, sexual, verbal or psychological, but also institutional and, of course, cannot consent to any form of exploitation, harassment, threat, injury, neglect or neglect. With this law the seat of popular sovereignty - and this is very important - says no to violence against boys and girls. I wanted to address them, boys and girls precisely, because I think doing so from this rostrum is very important. No person has the right to rape, assault or harm. No person, whether an adult or a companion of your age, has the right to touch your bodies without your consent. If someone hurts you at home, ask for help at school. If someone hurts you at school, ask for help at home. Because you have the right to a dignified life, to a safe life, to a happy life without anyone harming you; nor through social networks. If anyone tries to make you feel guilty about what has happened to you, please listen carefully to my words. Nothing that's happened to you is your fault. Ask for help because someone's going to help you. [[Applauds]] Of course, this Government, the Government of Spain and its institutions, are on the side of boys and girls. Violence against children, as the spokesman for the Socialist Parliamentary Group has explained very well, is a reality that generates a great deal of discomfort and that too often has been ignored by our society. The data, which apparently are just the tip of the iceberg, are chilling. In 2019, 46.2% of victims against freedom or sexual indemnity were minors, according to official data from the Ministry of the Interior. In 2017, there were 4875 complaints of violence against children in the family despite suspicions of 16,700 notifications. These data are very serious, but the worst is that behind each of these data there are names and surnames, stories that are truncated by violence. Stories like Nadia's, who for five years was abused by her father and who, after being able to tell it by showing great courage, could do nothing because the crime was prescribed. With this law, the statute of limitations for crimes of sexual violence against children will not begin to count until they are thirty-five years old. Or stories like that of Sara who, when she finally decided to count the abuses she had been subjected to, found herself in a judicial system that placed obstacles on her and revictimized her by forcing her to repeat her testimony constantly. With this law we undertake to improve the judicial system and to avoid revictimization through specific training and specializations in judicial and prosecutorial careers and the creation of technical teams that provide expert assistance in the proceedings. Or cases like the one already mentioned, that of Irune, who was separated from his daughter in 2017 after a sentence that withdrew his custody based on false parental alienation syndrome, which was worth a United Nations earshake. Finally, this law puts an end to a scientific and macho label that has caused so much pain to the children of our country. [[Applauds]] Or cases such as that of Emiliano, who at the age of ten suffered sexual assaults from a priest at the seminary where he studied intern. Although this is an uncomfortable truth, I think I should say it here today: the Catholic Church in our country has been an accomplice too many times in covering up sexual violence against children and this has to end. [[Applauds.-Protests]] For Emiliano and for all the children who have suffered abuses at the hands of the priests. Today we have the opportunity to put an end to situations like this and to protect all children for whom, as James Rhodes says, it is not too late. [[Protests. - Mrs Prohens speaks words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-15-CD210415.u55	Mrs. Prohens, please be quiet. [[Protests]] Quiet, please. [[Protests.-Mrs.Montesinos de Miguel: Where is Monica Oltra?]] Mrs. Montesinos de Miguel, please be quiet. [[Rumors.-Laseñora Angulo utters words that are not perceived]] Mrs. Angulo, you too. [[Rumors]] Quiet, please. Minister, continue.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-15-CD210415.u56	Thank you, President. I know that this is an uncomfortable truth, but we are not here for comfort, precisely, but we are about to do something for the boys and girls of our country, although their lordships of the People's Party are annoyed. Today we have the opportunity, as I said, to put an end to situations like this and to protect those boys and girls for whom, as James Rhodes says, it is not yet too late. Therefore, I encourage you, ladies and gentlemen, to continue working to further strengthen this law and complete the work that has taken us so long. We are not conformists and we are aware that we must continue to improve this law, but today is a fundamental and enormously important day for our country, which is once again placed as an international reference in the fight against all violence. I hope, as I said, that in the Upper House we will continue to improve this law and that it will be enriched thanks to all of you. [[Prolonged applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist and Confederal parliamentary groups of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, these last standing positions]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-15-CD210415.u57	Thank you very much, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote in three minutes. I remind you that you will only be able to vote from the seat that corresponds to you, identified with your name on the screen. I would also remind you that those Members who have been authorised to vote for the telematics procedure will not be able to do so from their seats. [[Pause]] Draft law on the protection of personal data processed for the prevention, detection, investigation and prosecution of criminal offences and the enforcement of criminal penalties. [[VOTING]] [[File number 121/000046]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-15-CD210415.u58	Opinions of committees on legislative initiatives. Draft organic law on the protection of personal data processed for the purpose of prevention, detection, investigation and prosecution of criminal offences and the enforcement of criminal sanctions. Amendments by the Basque Parliamentary Group Vote on a block of amendments. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 102 plus 244 telematics votes, 346; in favour, 36 plus 100 telematics votes, 136; against, 66 plus 143 telematics votes, 209; abstentions, 1 telematics vote.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-15-CD210415.u59	The amendments were rejected. Amendments by the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Rego Candaimil. BLOCK VOTING OF THE AMENDMENTS. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 102 plus 244 telematics votes, 346; in favour, 13 telematics votes; against, 102 plus 209 telematics votes, 311; abstentions, 22 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-15-CD210415.u60	The amendments were rejected. Amendments of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress. BLOCK VOTING OF THE AMENDMENTS. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 102 plus 244 telematics votes, 346; in favour, 36 plus 113 telematics votes, 149; against, 66 plus 129 telematics votes, 195; abstentions, 2 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-15-CD210415.u61	The amendments were rejected. Private votes of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress. Block vote of the individual votes. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 102 plus 244 telematics votes, 346; in favour, 36 plus 104 telematics votes, 140; against, 66 plus 138 telematics votes, 204; abstentions, 2 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-15-CD210415.u62	Individual votes are rejected.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-15-CD210415.u63	Draft Organic Law on Comprehensive Protection of Children and Adolescents from Violence. Amendments by the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group. Amendments 1 and 10. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 102 plus 244 telematics votes, 346; in favour, 28 telematics votes; against, 101 plus 199 telematics votes, 300; abstentions, 1 plus 17 telematics votes, 18.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-15-CD210415.u64	The amendments were rejected. Amendment 11. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 102 plus 244 telematics votes, 346; in favour, 7 plus 59 telematics votes, 66; against, 94 plus 169 telematics votes, 263; abstentions, 1 plus 16 telematics votes, 17.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-15-CD210415.u65	It's rejected. Amendment 19. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 102 plus 243 telematics votes, 345; in favour, 1 plus 36 telematics votes, 37; against, 101 plus 199 telematics votes, 300; abstentions, 8 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-15-CD210415.u66	It's rejected. Amendment 20. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 102 plus 243 telematics votes, 345; in favour, 34 telematics votes; against, 101 plus 199 telematics votes, 300; abstentions, 1 plus 10 telematics votes, 11.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-15-CD210415.u67	It's rejected. The rest of the amendments. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 102 plus 241 telematics votes, 343; in favour, 1 plus 36 telematics votes, 37; against, 101 plus 199 telematics votes, 300; abstentions, 6 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-15-CD210415.u68	They're rejected. Amendments by the Basque Parliamentary Group Amendments 29, 30 and 45. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 102 plus 243 telematics votes, 345; in favour, 20 telematics votes; against, 102 plus 205 telematics votes, 307; abstentions, 18 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-15-CD210415.u69	They're rejected. Amendment 49. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 102 plus 243 telematics votes, 345; in favour, 18 telematics votes; against, 102 plus 218 telematics votes, 320; abstentions, 7 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-15-CD210415.u70	It's rejected. Amendments by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. Amendment 193. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 102 plus 242 by telephone, 344; in favour, 36 plus 70 by telephone, 106; against, 66 plus 152 by telephone, 218; abstentions, 20 by telephone.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-15-CD210415.u71	It's rejected. The rest of the amendments. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 102 plus 242 by telephone, 344; in favour, 1 plus 21 by telephone, 22; against, 66 plus 152 by telephone, 218; abstentions, 35 plus 69 by telephone, 104.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-15-CD210415.u72	They're rejected. Amendments by the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Rego Candaimil. Amendments 536, 540, 541 and 543. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 102 plus 243 telematics votes, 345; for 1 plus 16 telematics votes, 17; against 101 plus 198 telematics votes, 299; abstentions, 29 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-15-CD210415.u73	They're rejected. Amendments 539 and 551. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 102 plus 243 telematics votes, 345; in favour, 21 telematics votes; against, 66 plus 146 telematics votes, 212; abstentions, 36 plus 76 telematics votes, 112.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-15-CD210415.u74	They're rejected. Amendments 544, 546, 549, 550, 554 and 571. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 102 plus 242 telematics votes, 344; in favour, 1 plus 30 telematics votes, 31; against, 101 plus 196 telematics votes, 297; abstentions, 16 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-15-CD210415.u75	They're rejected. Amendments 555, 556 and 560. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 102 plus 241 telematics votes, 343; in favour, 9 telematics votes; against, 101 plus 209 telematics votes, 310; abstentions, 1 plus 23 telematics votes, 24.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-15-CD210415.u76	They're rejected. Amendments 557, 558, 561, 562, 565 and 573. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 102 plus 242 telematics votes, 344; in favour, 9 telematics votes; against, 102 plus 218 telematics votes, 320; abstentions, 15 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-15-CD210415.u77	They're rejected. Amendment 567. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: 102 plus 242 telematics votes, 344; in favour, 9 telematics votes; against, 102 plus 205 telematics votes, 307; abstentions, 28 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-15-CD210415.u78	It's rejected. Amendment 576. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 102 plus 242 by telephone, 344; in favour, 8 plus 53 by telephone, 61; against, 94 plus 178 by telephone, 272; abstentions, 11 by telephone.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-15-CD210415.u79	It's rejected. The rest of the amendments. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 102 plus 241 telematics votes, 343; 1 plus 16 telematics votes, 17; 101 plus 211 telematics votes, 312; abstentions, 14 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-15-CD210415.u80	They're rejected. Amendments by the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Errejón Galván and Mr Baldoví Roda. Amendments 56, 59, 62, 65, 69, 70, 78, 92, 105, 107, 111, 114 to 116 and 138. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 102 plus 244 telematics votes, 346; in favour, 1 plus 32 telematics votes, 33; against, 101 plus 198 telematics votes, 299; abstentions, 14 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-15-CD210415.u81	They're rejected. Amendment 95. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 102 plus 244 telematics votes, 346; in favour, 1 plus 14 telematics votes, 15; against, 66 plus 170 telematics votes, 236; abstentions, 35 plus 60 telematics votes, 95.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-15-CD210415.u82	It's rejected. Amendment 112. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 101 plus 243 telematics votes, 344; in favour, 1 plus 15 telematics votes, 16; against, 100 plus 206 telematics votes, 306; abstentions, 22 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-15-CD210415.u83	It's rejected. Amendment 113. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 102 plus 244 telematics votes, 346; in favour, 1 plus 36 telematics votes, 37; against, 101 plus 199 telematics votes, 300; abstentions, 9 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-15-CD210415.u84	It's rejected. Amendment 125. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 102 plus 244 telematics votes, 346; in favour, 1 plus 23 telematics votes, 24; against, 101 plus 199 telematics votes, 300; abstentions, 22 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-15-CD210415.u85	It's rejected. The rest of the amendments. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 102 plus 244 telematics votes, 346; in favour, 1 plus 14 telematics votes, 15; against, 101 plus 200 telematics votes, 301; abstentions, 30 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-15-CD210415.u86	They're rejected. Amendments by the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Miquel i Valentí. Amendment 263. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 101 plus 244 telematics, 345; in favour, 1 plus 19 telematics, 20; against, 100 plus 196 telematics, 296; abstentions, 29 telematics.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-15-CD210415.u87	It's rejected. The rest of the amendments. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 102 plus 244 telematics, 346; 1 plus 29 telematics, 30; 101 plus 197 telematics, 298; abstentions, 18 telematics.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-15-CD210415.u88	They're rejected. Amendments by the Republican Parliamentary Group. Amendment 141. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 102 plus 242 telematics, 344; in favour, 31 telematics; against, 101 plus 194 telematics, 295; abstentions, 1 plus 17 telematics, 18.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-15-CD210415.u89	It's rejected. Amendment 143. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 102 plus 243 telematics, 345; in favour, 30 telematics; against, 102 plus 203 telematics, 305; abstentions, 10 telematics.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-15-CD210415.u90	It's rejected. The rest of the amendments. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 102 plus 244 telematics, 346; in favour, 1 plus 39 telematics, 40; against, 101 plus 197 telematics, 298; abstentions, 8 telematics.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-15-CD210415.u91	They're rejected. Amendments of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal. Transactional amendment in the Commission of the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Errejón and Mr Baldoví, of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations We can-in Comú Ponde-Galicia in Communal and of the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Rego, to Amendments 76, 221 and 575. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 102 plus 244 telematics, 346; in favour, 7 plus 52 telematics, 59; against, 95 plus 185 telematics, 280.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-15-CD210415.u92	It's rejected. Amendments by the VOX Parliamentary Group. Amendments 302, 322, 344, 345 and 366. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 102 plus 244 telematics, 346; for 1 plus 60 telematics, 61; against 101 plus 182 telematics, 283; abstentions, 2 telematics.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-15-CD210415.u93	They're rejected. The rest of the amendments. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 102 plus 244 telematics, 346; in favour, 52 telematics; against, 102 plus 190 telematics, 292; abstentions, 2 telematics.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-15-CD210415.u94	They're rejected. Amendments of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress. Amendment 410. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 102 plus 243 telematics votes, 345; in favour, 36 plus 74 telematics votes, 110; against, 66 plus 156 telematics votes, 222; abstentions, 13 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-15-CD210415.u95	It's rejected. Amendments 422, 448, 517, 522 and 534. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 102 plus 244 telematics votes, 346; in favour, 35 plus 53 telematics votes, 88; against, 66 plus 162 telematics votes, 228; abstentions, 1 plus 29 telematics votes, 30.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-15-CD210415.u96	They're rejected. Amendment 471. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 102 plus 243 telematics votes, 345; in favour, 35 plus 54 telematics votes, 89; against, 67 plus 168 telematics votes, 235; abstentions, 21 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-15-CD210415.u97	It's rejected. The rest of the amendments. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 102 plus 244 telematics votes, 346; in favour, 36 plus 61 telematics votes, 97; against, 66 plus 163 telematics votes, 229; abstentions, 20 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-15-CD210415.u98	They're rejected. Transactional amendments. Commission compromise amendment by the parliamentary groups Euskal Herria Bildu and Plural, Mr Errejón and Mr Baldoví, to Amendments 21 and 118. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 102 plus 244 telematics votes, 346; in favour, 7 plus 56 telematics votes, 63; against, 94 plus 171 telematics votes, 265; abstentions, 1 plus 17 telematics votes, 18.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-15-CD210415.u99	It's rejected. Amendment No 1 to Amendments 38, 40, 41, 43, 48 and 50 of the Basque Parliamentary Group [[EAJ-PNV]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 102 plus 244 telematics votes, 346; 24 telematics votes; 102 plus 202 telematics votes, 304; abstentions, 18 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-15-CD210415.u100	It's rejected. Transactional Amendment No 2 to Amendments 207 of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group; 574 of the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Rego Candamil; 127 of the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Errejón Galván; 156 of the Republican Parliamentary Group, and 519 of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 102 plus 244 telematics votes, 346; in favour, 102 plus 237 telematics votes, 339; against, 6 telematics votes; abstentions, 1 telematics vote.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-15-CD210415.u101	The amendment was adopted.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-15-CD210415.u102	Ladies and gentlemen, this plenary session includes the discussion and adoption of the opinions of the draft Organic Law on the Protection of Personal Data processed for the purposes of prevention, detection, investigation and prosecution of criminal offences and the enforcement of criminal sanctions, and of the draft Organic Law on the Comprehensive Protection of Children and Adolescents from Violence. As an organic law, these initiatives must be put to a final vote which, in accordance with Rule 131.2 of the Rules of Procedure, must be announced in advance by the Presidency. Therefore, in compliance with this provision, I announce that the votes will not take place before 1.30 p.m. I would also like to inform you that, from 12:00 to 13:00 today, non-legislative proposals and motions, committee opinions and the corresponding general votes, the opinions of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on international conventions and the proposal of the Constitutional Commission for the creation of a subcommission will be able to be voted on by telematical means. All these matters will be put to the vote in the Chamber at the end of the session. DECLARATIONS OF THE COMMISSION ON EXTERNAL MATTERS ON INTERNATIONAL CONVENTIONS: - FRAMEWORK AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE KINGDOM OF SPAIN AND THE INTERNATIONAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT FUND, DONE IN MADRID AND ROMA ON 22 SEPTEMBER 2020. [[File number 110/000049]] - CONVENTION BETWEEN THE KINGDOM OF SPAIN AND URANIA TO ELIMINATE Double taxation in relation to taxes on income and the prevention of tax evasion and tax evasion and their Protocol, done in MADRID on 10 September 2020. [[File number 110/000050]] - SOCIAL SECURITY CONVENTION BETWEEN THE KINGDOM OF SPAIN AND THE REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL, I DID 'AD REFERENDUM' IN DAKAR ON 22 NOVEMBER 2020. [[File number 110/000051]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-15-CD210415.u103	We now turn to the agenda item on the opinions of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on international conventions with dossier numbers 110/000049 to 110/000051. No group has asked for the floor. The opinions will be put to the vote with the rest of the votes scheduled for today. PROPOSALS FOR THE ESTABLISHMENT OF SUBCOMMISSIONS: - PROPOSAL FROM THE CONSTITUTIONAL COMMISSION, ESTABLISHING A SUB-COMMISSION FOR THE REFORM OF THE ORGANIZATIONAL LAW 5/1985 OF 19 JUNE, OF THE GENERAL ELECTORAL REGIME. [[File number 158/000020]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-15-CD210415.u104	We turn to the last item on the agenda, concerning the proposal of the Constitutional Commission for the creation of a subcommission for the reform of the Organic Law 5/1985 of 19 June of the General Electoral Regime. This proposal is submitted to the plenary without any previous debate. The vote on this item, as I have already announced, will take place together with the rest of the votes at the end of the sitting. The meeting was suspended until 1.30 p.m. Thank you very much. [[Pause]] It was twelve and five minutes from noon. The meeting resumed at 1.30 p.m.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-15-CD210415.u105	Ladies and gentlemen, we have resumed the sitting. I remind you that you will only be able to vote from the seat that corresponds to you, identified with your name on the screen. I would also remind you that those Members who have been authorized to vote for the telematics procedure cannot do so from their seats. We voted for the non-law propositions. No legislative proposal by the VOX Parliamentary Group on measures to ensure environmental sustainability in the environment of the Mar Menor. It shall be put to the vote on its terms. The vote will begin. The voting was as follows: votes cast, 100 plus 239 telematics votes, 339; in favour, 53 telematics votes; against, 65 plus 135 telematics votes, 200; abstentions, 35 plus 51 telematics votes, 86.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-15-CD210415.u106	Accordingly, the non-legislative proposal is rejected. - the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress, on defending the work of state security forces and bodies, autonomous police and local police, as well as condemning recent episodes of violence. [[File number 162/000570]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-15-CD210415.u107	No bill by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress on defending the work of the State Security Forces, regional police and local police, as well as condemning recent episodes of street violence. The vote was taken in accordance with the compromise amendment tabled by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress and the VOX Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. The voting was as follows: 102 plus 239 telematics votes, 341; in favour, 35 plus 111 telematics votes, 146; against, 66 plus 123 telematics votes, 189; abstentions, 1 plus 5 telematics votes, 6.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-15-CD210415.u108	Accordingly, the non-legislative proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-15-CD210415.u109	Motions resulting from urgent appeals. Motion for an urgent call by the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Baldoví Roda, on the urgent need for reform of the autonomous financing system, as well as the establishment of compensatory measures such as the Equalization Fund until such reform is carried out. We are voting in the terms of the compromise amendment tabled by the Socialist Parliamentary Group, the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal and the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Baldoví Roda. The vote will begin. The voting was as follows: 102 plus 233 telematics votes, 335; in favour, 67 plus 126 telematics votes, 193; against, 53 telematics votes; abstentions, 35 plus 54 telematics votes, 89.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-15-CD210415.u110	Accordingly, the motion as a result of urgent inquiry was adopted. - the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress, on the reasons the Government has to amend THE LABORAL REFORM. [[File number 173/000064]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-15-CD210415.u111	Motion following urgent inquiry by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress on the Government's reasons for changing labour reform. It shall be put to the vote on its terms. The vote will begin. The voting was as follows: 102 plus 239 telematics votes, 341; in favour, 36 plus 61 telematics votes, 97; against, 66 plus 122 telematics votes, 188; abstentions, 56 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-15-CD210415.u112	Consequently, the motion resulting from urgent inquiry is rejected. - OF THE VOX PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, ON THE MEASURES THE GOVERNMENT IS GOING TO TAKE TO PROTECT THE MAJOR. [[File number 173/000065]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-15-CD210415.u113	Motion resulting from urgent inquiry by the VOX Parliamentary Group on the measures to be taken by the Government to protect the elderly. The vote was taken on the terms resulting from the incorporation of the amendments tabled by the People's Parliamentary Group in the Congress. The vote will begin. The voting was as follows: 102 plus 239 telematics votes, 341; in favour, 36 plus 111 telematics votes, 147; against, 66 plus 128 telematics votes, 194.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-15-CD210415.u114	Consequently, the motion resulting from urgent inquiry is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-15-CD210415.u115	Opinions of committees on legislative initiatives. Draft organic law on the protection of personal data processed for the purpose of prevention, detection, investigation and prosecution of criminal offences and the enforcement of criminal sanctions. We are voting in the first place on the opinion. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 102 plus 238 telematics votes, 340; in favour, 102 plus 165 telematics votes, 267; against, 4 telematics votes; abstentions, 69 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-15-CD210415.u116	The opinion was therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-15-CD210415.u117	The general vote is then taken on the organic initiative. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 102 plus 239 telematics votes, 341; in favour, 102 plus 165 telematics votes, 267; against, 4 telematics votes; abstentions, 70 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-15-CD210415.u118	Accordingly, the draft organic law was adopted.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-15-CD210415.u119	Draft Organic Law on Comprehensive Protection of Children and Adolescents from Violence. We vote first on the opinion, taking into account the technical correction of the Socialist, Popular Parliamentary Groups in Congress, Confederal de União Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, Citizens and Euskal Herria Bildu distributed. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 102 plus 239 telematics votes, 341; in favour, 102 plus 166 telematics votes, 268; against, 57 telematics votes; abstentions, 16 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-15-CD210415.u120	The opinion was therefore adopted. [[Applauds]] The law, as you know, has an organic character.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-15-CD210415.u121	The general vote is then taken on the organic initiative. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 102 plus 239 telematics votes, 341; in favour, 102 plus 166 telematics votes, 268; against, 57 telematics votes; abstentions, 16 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-15-CD210415.u122	Accordingly, the draft organic law was adopted. [[Prolonged applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist and Confederal parliamentary groups of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia enComun, standing.-Applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-15-CD210415.u123	Opinions of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on international conventions. Joint vote on the opinions of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on international conventions. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 102 plus 237 telematics votes, 339; in favour, 102 plus 157 telematics votes, 259; against, 51 telematics votes; abstentions, 29 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-15-CD210415.u124	Opinions were adopted.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-15-CD210415.u125	Proposals for the establishment of subcommittees. Proposal of the Constitutional Commission for the creation of a subcommission for the reform of the Organic Law 5/1985 of 19 June of the General Electoral Regime. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 102 plus 237 telematics votes, 339; in favour, 102 plus 228 telematics votes, 330; abstentions, 9 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-15-CD210415.u126	The proposal was adopted. Very good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The meeting rose. It was one and forty-five minutes in the afternoon. Error correction.- In the Journal of Sessions number 94, corresponding to the plenary session number 90, held on Wednesday 14 April 2021, on page 70, first paragraph, line 10, where it says '2016' should say '2013'.
