ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-23-CD210923.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. The meeting was resumed. We start with the agenda item on the Ombudsman's report on the management of the year 2020. As you know, in accordance with the rules of procedure, the deliberations will begin once the ombudsperson has completed the presentation of his report. For the presentation of a summary of the report, I have the floor of the ombudsman, Mr Francisco Fernández Marugán, whom we welcome to this House.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-23-CD210923.u2	Madam President, as you rightly said, I appear in this House to present the Ombudsman's annual report for the financial year 2020. This report was sent to the House on 6 May and I already reported to the Congress-Senary Joint Committee at my appearance on 22 June. Previously, on 26 November last year, he appeared before the said Commission in order to tell them in advance of our activity in a year marked by the pandemic. This procedure has some uniqueness because it is the first time that the Ombudsman has made, presented and discussed several times before Parliament an annual report before the end of the year and after the end of the year. The year 2020 also has another unique feature, the emergence of a pandemic of global incidence that has affected people's lives and their social, economic and cultural activities. I will start by talking about the economic problems we have faced. Globally, 2020 was an exercise in a global economic crisis in which the Spanish economy experienced the greatest recession in the last 80 years. This has made us experience a considerable impact, an impact that would have been even deeper if measures had not been taken, as was done elsewhere and of course in Spain, to mitigate the loss of income for the most vulnerable people and to ensure the liquidity of the business fabric. Realising the aspects of the Spanish economy, 2020 was a year when there was a sharp decline in gross domestic product, which fell by 10.8%. A hole of enormous magnitude was generated that resulted in the collapse of household consumption, which fell by 12%, as did investment in equipment and construction goods. These phenomena cause thousands of layoffs, company closures and an endless list of damages. In my view, most of the damage that has occurred has occurred in the labour market, where employment has fallen by 7 % and, of course, where unemployment has risen to 15,5 %. In the Joint Commission, I had the opportunity to reiterate that a wide range of measures to cover the labour and economic and social fields were adopted at the Courts during that exercise in the year 2020. That was established as the so-called social shield. The second element I would like to refer to from the economic aggregates is the public deficit, which rose by 11% of GDP. Public spending increased to sustain the income and productive capacity of those who were hit by the pandemic and public revenues fell due to the stall that occurred in economic activity. In global terms, public spending in Spain in 2020 rose to the highest level since 1940. The State intervened to prevent the collapse of the economy; if we had not made this investment, we would have witnessed a sharp increase in poverty, a deepening of the gap between those who have access to protection and those who are in the bad weather. The proceedings have been very diverse and well-known, which has been discussed in this House, such as the ERTE or the creation of minimum living income. In addition, there were other intervention actions by the various autonomous governments, which received more than EUR 16 billion from the Central State Administration from the COVID-19 fund for health, education and social services. As a global assessment, I have to say that fiscal policy facilitated survival in many companies and employment in them. A large part of all these expenditure increases resulted in more deficits and more debt. The percentage of expenditure on GDP ranged from 42% to 51%. The public debt of the administrations rose to 120 %, thirty points more than before the crisis. Debt costs were painless thanks to the ECB's policy, which purchased 87% of the Spanish debt, thus moving us away from the state's financial burdens. The translation is clear: there was more poverty and I will refer to that. The INE has recently published the survey of living conditions, published in July, where a fairly accurate X-ray of the situation of families is provided. In this survey, it is said that the percentage of people with severe material deficiencies was 7% of the population when in 2019 it was only 4.5%. Within this core of people, I want to refer to those households where all assets were unemployed; unemployment, in fact, grew by 150 000 units between the first quarter of 2020 and the same period of 2021. I have been breaking down a series of bitter data, where it is quite clear that government policy had to lead to strong and persistent social support policies. These social support policies will be seen throughout my speech; I will talk to you about health, welfare policy and social services, education, families, an entire stock that highlighted a panorama of great difficulties that, in principle, we could not imagine happening. Families had to reduce their well-being, truncating the recovery process they had been experiencing a few years before 2020. Ladies and gentlemen, the virus does more: it alters the organisational schemes of the public administrations by pushing to redouble their efforts in order to face the ravages that were taking place. The intensity with which this virus affected led to the urgent hiring of personnel in health, education and throughout the world who sometimes forget about employable public services; we hired employable professionals in those public services where the pandemic was experiencing greater intensity and greater demands had to be met. The staff of public employees did not stop growing, reaching a historical record. There was never as much public worker as there is now, because in many sectors such as health and education, they were very necessary then and they continue to be so. However, not all the new jobs created are of good quality, time and precariousness have grown considerably. The pandemic leaves more public workers than before, but with levels of temporality and precariousness that are difficult to bear. I have to say that what has been done politically and socially seems to me to be valuable. I remember how the agreement between the Government of Spain, the Workers' Commissions, UGT and the CSIF made it possible to establish a soil in which to base a climate of labor relations that had high consistency. It is true that when these phenomena occur there are also some paradoxes: occupational sinestrality descends, as it could not be any other way when activity falls the way it fell, but it increased noticeably over previous years mortality. In 2020, the number of deaths due to accidents at work rose to 525. I have given data that when written it is put with an indication that they are more negative than positive. The climate has changed and today there is greater optimism thanks to the measures taken and, why not say, the vaccination process in the population. It also considered positive the effects that are creating and are going to create aid from the European Union because, at the moment, the Spanish Government is already committed to more than 40%. I'm going to talk to you about health now. In 2020, the outbreak of the epidemic posed an unprecedented challenge that led to the limit on health services, whose capacity to respond, in the first moments, was exceeded. The National Health Service experienced its worst crisis, experienced the worst crisis since its creation in 1986 and was able to show that, over many years, it had a strength, but also showed some shortcomings and weaknesses. The strengths are easily summarized: the National Health Service provides universal and free access to public health care; the care provided by its professionals is of quality, well trained and has effective means to carry out its task; it is an organization with decades of experience, appreciated by all Spaniards. However, when the virus breaks out in March 2020, the weaknesses of the system are also highlighted. Perhaps one of the weaknesses that we have not highlighted and that the advocate has taken into account is that non-virus patients have been relegated by patients in the pandemic. Thousands of surgical interventions and consultations have been suspended and delayed because of the coronavirus, that is, today we have a very deep problem of very long waiting lists. Therefore, it is quite reasonable to think that administrations must urgently deploy reinforcement plans in the most affected specialties. In the hospital emergency, a deep fragility was seen. In the worst moments of the crisis, hospital emergencies experienced dramatic situations that must be corrected over the next few years, with more staff and more teams. There is an important problem here: public health professionals need to be trusted if an effective National Health System is to be defended. More quality fixed employment is needed, professionals must be remunerated on the basis of their responsibility and they must be provided with continuing training. Against this background, citizens addressed the Ombudsman, highlighting the difficulties and weaknesses of primary care. And health professionals also addressed the Ombudsman to denounce the assistance pressure they were under, which prevents them from achieving adequate quality objectives. The defender wanted to know the scope of these problems and addressed the various autonomous communities. We have to say that the vast majority of them have provided us with adequate information, though not all. There was one who insists that he does not have the precise data and that he cannot obtain them and make them available to us. The current situation of primary care cannot be delayed any longer, and it is essential to put in place reinforcement plans for the centres and for the professionals and, of course, with adequate technical means. If I have spoken before and until now about primary care, I would now like to talk about hospital care, because, structurally speaking, it will be necessary to provide it with a number of intensive care beds which, at the moment, is lacking. Therefore, in hospital care it is necessary to have adequate equipment and technological equipment, specialized medical and nursing personnel and an investment in hospital maintenance, especially in older ones. Mental health. In recent years, I have been expressing my concern about the insufficient attention given to mental health. Spain is one of the most backward countries on this issue. As a result, the pandemic has made it necessary and urgent to build momentum in this sector and improve services. Public health and its coordination is a matter to which I would like to refer. I believe that it is necessary to create independent State public health care and to achieve a more appropriate inter-territorial coordination mechanism. Ladies and gentlemen, after almost twenty years of full decentralization of health care, it is necessary to review and extend joint decision-making procedures within the Interterritorial Council for Public Health. Therefore, in conclusion, in the area of health, we certainly find that the largest items in the budget of the Autonomous Communities correspond to the headings of health. Even so, the system carries a chronic funding gap. The system has found a course of action that needs to be prioritized: primary care, public health and mental health. The year 2020 was a very hard year for older people, especially those who lived at that time in residences. Why not say, they are spaces very exposed to the spread of infectious diseases. Many geriatric centres showed a shortage of resources and staff and difficulties in taking adequate prevention and response measures. With this picture, the number of contagions and deaths was very important. This issue has been worrying us since 2017, where we have paid attention to the situation of these centers and the respect that must be given in them to the rights of their residents. Therefore, in April 2020, we addressed a number of recommendations to the Autonomous Communities and urged them to strengthen the residential health care centres, to cover workers' work losses to ensure adequate care in the residences, to report continuously and fully to the families of the inmates, to allow the return of the largest number of residents with their families during emergency periods with a guarantee that there would be no loss of place, and, finally, to adopt protocols to facilitate dismissal in cases of terminal clinical status. We were told - and I think it has been so - by the various councils of the autonomous communities that would accept these recommendations, although it is no less true that the way in which they are implemented has been different in each case. But these were not the only actions of the defender on such a sensitive subject as this. All the recommendations were made in April, months later, in November, we drew up a set of conclusions which we made public and which I would like to recall this morning here. There is a need to improve data collection and to develop statistics that update the status of residential care resources. For us a good news that they have recently released is that the INE will develop and publish from January 2021 a complete and comprehensive census of residential centers. One conclusion we come to is that health care, either in hospitals or in the residential centres of older persons, does not always arrive in time; therefore, coordination between residential centres and autonomous health centres needs to be strengthened in order to improve access to health care. The organisation of residences itself has had failures that highlight a structural problem: the primary care model, which is mostly managed by private entities; in the case of Spain, they exceed 84 %. The emergency came without effective contingency plans, with very tight staffing, and sometimes with too simple, too basic infrastructure and resources. So, quite insufficient. In this sense, we believe that the organization of residential centres must be approached in a very important way, that inspection should be improved, that mandatory staff ratios should be reviewed upwards - this is a sector where low wages are plentiful and low wages and high temporality as well. Therefore, efforts must be made to establish more efficient organizational systems, and the search for that quality and security that would allow for a dignified and rights-based service lead me to recommend that the generation of large residential environments often results in insufficiency and that we need to go to smaller residential environments. Ladies and gentlemen, I am now going to talk to you about a group that needs urgent attention from us: young people. Young people, yes. As you are well aware, there are many reports, surveys, sociological studies that show the concern and concern of young people for young people and older people for the conditions of young people. So much so that last July the President of this House and some of her ladies and gentlemen had the opportunity to know firsthand the result of one of these demoscopic studies where they could corroborate some of the concerns that we have all been feeling. Almost 30% of Spanish young people are unemployed and half of those who work do so on temporary contracts rather than indefinite contracts. One in three young people has an activity below the level of their studies. The age group that in this society has the most economic vulnerabilities is no longer that of the elderly or of the retired, it is that of the young between twenty and twenty-nine years, who remain and live with their parents more and more. It is therefore not surprising that these young people, born between 1986 and 2003, who have already suffered two major economic crises at decisive moments of their formation, consider them forgotten by the State. It is a situation, I say for the first time in this House, which I find worrying. Therefore, of the various problems that affect young people negatively, I will talk to you about three: difficulties in accessing the labour market, difficulties in accessing housing and problems in having children. The Spanish Constitution provides that all Spaniards have the right to work and to adequate remuneration to meet their needs and those of their families. Unfortunately, this right is not being properly applied to a generation of young people, who are currently living there, who have a low-level, low-level and very temporary employment horizon. Our education system is poorly adapted to the needs of the labour market and on many occasions does not lead much to highlight productivity increases. We have been concerned about this problem for days and asked the Ministry of Education for information on the lack of vocational training places. There are a number of institutions that have been concerned about these issues, some public, some private, some institutional. I would highlight the report that the Banco de España made in April 2020, in which it highlighted the need for an ambitious, comprehensive and permanence-oriented structural reform agenda for young Spaniards. The right to housing is also enshrined in the Constitution, which states that all Spaniards must enjoy decent housing. Nor does it seem that our young people are satisfied with the exercise of this right. The difficulty in accessing a home both for purchase and for rent in large part is the result of the unemployment and precariousness that I have told you about. There are also other specific problems in the sector. This is a sector with high prices where, in the big cities and in the archipelagos, there is an insufficient supply of public housing. The Spanish urban centres should therefore be provided with public housing for rent, focusing primarily on young people and vulnerable people with fewer resources. Walking in that direction seems right to me. If young people cannot have decent jobs and have serious problems with access to housing, it is difficult for them to have children, mainly because of an act of realism, and it is because they cannot have them. To deal with this situation, young people need an economic and social framework that will allow them to do so and that, let us be honest, is not available at this time. This is a problem that has some important journey and has much to do with a demographic gap that has spread since 2015 to here. From that moment on, the trend is that there are more deaths than births. This has occurred in 2020, which continues to mark a direction, with 6% less births than the previous year, with a projection that has to do quite with the pandemic, but of course also with the circumstances in which Spanish young people live. Spain is, as we all know, a country with a very low birth rate of 1.2%. Social policy measures are needed to enable economic autonomy for women and couples who are resolving this issue. It is true that today's Spain lives better than what was lived in it thirty or forty years ago and that young people live in a more free and developed society than their parents had, but this progress has not just reached all, let alone young people. I have told you some problems this morning: the problems of access to stable and decent work, the problems of unacceptable wages, the problems of access to housing and the possibilities and difficulties of having children. Therefore, I would say to you, ladies and gentlemen, that our society should not be allowed to have a generation of citizens looking to the future with so little illusion. I shall now turn to the problem of immigration, which, as you know, we have been paying close attention to. In the year 2020 more than 23 thousand people arrived in the Canary Islands; in addition, they accessed the peninsula and the Balearic Islands more than 16 thousand and entered through Ceuta and Melilla two thousand people. Therefore, the figures are not short, they are important, and this trend, this evolution in the year 2021 has been similar. I'm not going to bore you with the numbers, among other things, because they're not finished. Spain's geographical position is bordered by Africa, so the situation in Africa marks our migratory phenomenon in a significant way. I would remind you - we all remember - that in 2006 we had the crisis of the cayucos, that in 2018 a serious problem arose in the Mediterranean arc and that in 2020 we had a problem of important arrivals to the Canary Islands. All these facts, which I have just listed, very briefly, of course, show the causes of a migration process going through in Africa and which has at least four milestones, perhaps five: in Africa there is significant population growth, there is a problem of climate change, there is a problem of wars and terrorism and there is a problem of political instability in many parts of it, especially in what has been called the Sahel. All these trends have aggravated the economic consequences of the pandemic, causing for the first time in twenty-five years a recession that will increase the number of displaced persons in the coming years, many of whom will arrive in Spain. Those who have followed these kinds of problems and the activities of the Ombudsman will have been able to see that in the last weeks of last year we have produced a monographic report on the problems of the Canary Islands and the problems of migration in that archipelago. In it we address a number of problems related to the reception of immigrants in Spain. Spain, like most developed countries, has an ageing population and therefore requires labour. Immigrants and refugees often provide it. This topic is addressed in a monographic report that we made in the first months of 2020 and that we titled Contribution of migrations to the Spanish economy. In it we point out that few collectives are as necessary and as important for the development of Spain as that of migration. Why? Because they compensate for our negative vegetative balances, because in many cases they live in empty rural areas, because they limit the ageing of the labour force and because they take care of the care work of many elderly people in Spain, as well as helping the viability and security of pensions and social security. Despite these obvious benefits, migrants, particularly Africans, continue to suffer from particular xenophobia. Ladies and gentlemen, I think we should reflect on the need to make some kind of change in the approach to migratory phenomena, because many occasions are seen nothing more than from the perspective of the control of irregular arrivals. It is therefore urgent to adopt a set of policies that avoid having to make improvised decisions such as those that we had to adopt last year in Arguineguin. This reflection, to which he incorporated me and urged them, has to start from the dysfunctions that the current system of reception of immigrants in Spain has. I'll list them. I think it's important. In Spain today there is a lack of State migration policy that contemplates this phenomenon in its entirety. There is insufficient coordination between the various agencies of public administrations in the area of migration and, by the way, the agencies that come into this issue are not few. In the detention centres for foreigners, which are one of the places we use to control this population, there is inadequate internal management. Therefore, on the basis of this diagnosis, I believe that it is necessary to adopt measures of different scope, short and medium- and long-term measures. In the short term, I believe that this world of the migration process has multiple collectives that require different realities, but there is one fact that I would also like to highlight to your ladies and gentlemen: the Asylum Act was adopted in 2009, 2009; it is 2021 and the Asylum Act has no regulations. There are things I think we should be more rigorous in their treatment. I believe that xenophobia must be avoided. There have not been many, but in some cases there have been, especially in those population centres where the presence of arrivals is more intense. In the medium and long term, I insist, we have a dispersed management system, so a mechanism for coordinating the various aspects of this issue must be established within the Government. In 2006 we saw how an agency was intended to be established; it was not done, and this initiative was abolished in 2015. We need to work with different levels and levels; we need to establish agreements with autonomous communities to work together on this problem in solidarity. It is well known that the pressure of migratory phenomena occurs mainly in the coastal territories of the Mediterranean and in some areas of the Atlantic, but that this does not mean that the autonomous communities in those areas are the only ones to deal with this type of problem. The rest of the autonomous communities must work together to resolve the problems that arise as a result of these intense arrivals of immigrants. We must opt for an orderly, regular and secure immigration. Look, orderly, regular and secure, since now most of the immigration that comes to us is irregular. Mechanisms must indeed be established to allow the arrival of such orderly, regular and secure migration. Collaboration with countries that emit migratory flows is important and I believe that things have been done that are right. The Africa plans launched in 2006, on the occasion of the arrival of the cayucos, have been operating in a reasonable manner and have enabled Spain's presence and collaboration with an important part of African societies. We also value what is being done now. On November 20, 2020, the government unveiled the so-called Canary Islands Plan, aimed at improving and maintaining permanent reception facilities in that archipelago. But, ladies and gentlemen, the migration problem is not an exclusively Spanish problem; the migration problem is a European problem. Spain cannot claim or implement a migration policy which is outside our European partners. We have proposed to the Government of Spain - and I think it has done so - a committee to establish a strategy to contain irregular immigration, even if only to bring some profit to our country's relations with Mauritania, and Senegal, and the Gambia, with Morocco and with other countries in that area. I said that we need to think about migration policy. I repeat. I do not think we can see the problems from the perspective of the control of irregular arrivals. It seems to me to be an inappropriate approach. I believe that the time has come to look further, to address the issue of migration processes from the needs of our society and the problems of the labour market. We need immigrants, we need the European Union to welcome them, but we don't want them to have to play life here. We have two possibilities, ladies and gentlemen: to perpetuate the current narrow-door model, based on an unrealistic analysis that is contrary to our interests, or to lead within Europe and with Africa an orderly migration policy that demands the twenty-first century. My intervention began by talking about economics and ended up talking about economics. I believe that the events that have taken place on the economic scene have done so quickly, so we have not yet realised the scope of these developments. This is a global crisis, which reaches the most remote places and has notable differences with which we experienced in 2008, which was genuinely an economic crisis caused by disorders, neglects and excesses. After it there was little and poor regulation, which was only felt in the rescue of banks and companies. It is now a crisis whose goal is to stop a virus and, in addition, to deal with the economic consequences it has generated. Therefore, we must do things other than those that were done before. We don't know how much it's going to cost us in lives or benefits or how much money we have to spend on overcoming it. It has not been the result of market failures or the mistakes of private economic operators or the lack of diligence of those in charge of the economy, it has been the result of a pandemic. To overcome this crisis, in principle, I think that several tools could be used. A kind of trebed could be used, where we were able to ask ourselves what to hold, what to recover and what to transform. We must sustain the productive fabric, as has been done in Spain and outside Spain, in order to bring about the health problem; we must recover growth in order to guarantee the viability of companies, and we must make structural changes now and beyond the times of the pandemic. The question that you could ask, and that I also ask myself, is whether there has been an answer to these problems. I believe that Spanish society, the public authorities, public policies have made a journey that has faced these kinds of problems. And I told them that the picture, in general, is better at this time than in previous times. But there's one thing I haven't talked about and I'd like to talk about. The measures to be implemented, which must continue to be implemented in order to mitigate the effects of the crisis, no one has said how they should be financed. This is an issue that is not resolved. It is not resolved, despite the fact that the fall in activity led to tax collection in March 2020 by 20%, despite the fact that public administrations have been in debt at significant levels and despite the fact that public services have been increasing and spending. I therefore believe that we should consider whether it is possible to continue to carry out these expansive policies that we have been implementing and that somehow they are moving in a direction that leads me to wonder what will happen when the recovery is consolidated. I spoke in the Commission about three possible alternatives, and I said that we had to resort to three facts that, in my opinion, are important: we have to resort to the manual, we have to ask the manual how these issues are solved; we have to address the international bodies, and who knows whether we have to ask them here and outside, in the Congress of Deputies and elsewhere, how the ombudsmen say we have to address this problem. The manual has clearly stated this: fiscal incentives must be adopted to protect incomes and jobs, even if this means an increase in deficit and debt. The agencies - when I say the agencies I mean the OECD, the G20, the G7, the IMF - point out that we must maintain health, education, pensions and not generate inequalities that can lead to social conflicts, that is, they advise - and advise well - that we should do in the year 2021 what we did not do in 2008, that we should now do what we did not do before. It seems to me to be a correct policy, but here there is a problem of indebtedness which has acquired important levels and which raises the need to resort not only to public debt, but to other financial or fiscal instruments. Biden is making it possible to finance policies against inequality and poverty and is supporting the education and health system, and has not hidden that some issues of tax origin need to be reconsidered in order to do so. I think that, being the pandemic at its cost, we must respond with orthodoxy. However, responding with orthodoxy is spending more, at this time spending more, directing all the cannons against the pandemic to get rid of it as soon as possible. We have to think that it is worth having a little more debt in return for having a little less unemployment, which at the moment many people are suffering. In this regard, the Ombudsman believes that we are engaged in a tax reform, which is necessary; a reform that increases the collection and redistribution capacity of our tax system. Over the last few years, it has been shown that in Spain, unlike other countries, the tax system collects and redistributes income and wealth worse than it does in most European countries. I therefore believe that tax bases need to be broadened by reviewing some of the tax benefits. We must rationalise the taxation of large corporate entities - the candidate of the German Social Democratic Party has said this a few days ago - we must establish debates on international taxation that rationalise the taxation of large corporations, avoiding that it is small businesses and traditional sectors that bear the greatest incidence of taxes. With this increased allocation of resources we can finance the expansion of public policies that I have been exposing. I have no objection to acknowledging that at this time the Spanish administration, in particular the Ministry of Finance, has published a document incorporating a number of fiscal policy options, the publication of which appears to have taken place in the coming months. It is a document that, in my view, is moving in the right direction, and part of its approaches, from my point of view, are correct and useful. This reform, for which I am also advocating, must address two basic issues: the sufficiency of expenditure and income equity. In the territory of equity in Spain there are many things to be corrected and there is much to be desired. Ladies and gentlemen - and almost in the end - finding a point where taxes benefit the economy is not simple, they are going to say, it is not simple, it depends on many factors, but that balance between sufficient spending and income equity can be sought. If we have to decide in this society what kind of public services we want to provide, that is, if we want to maintain a welfare state worthy of that name, it will serve very little to bet on reducing taxes. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-23-CD210923.u3	Thank you very much, Mr. People's Advocate. Mr Fernández Marugán, we thank you for your presentation of the summary of the Ombudsman's 2020 report. The various groups will then have the opportunity to intervene to establish a position on this report. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. Cepeda. As the Joint Parliamentary Group said, Mr Gimeno has the floor, first of all, on a position-setting basis. In order to start the speeches we will wait for the Ombudsman to be able to access the rostrum and therefore to listen to his lordships. [[Pause]] Mr. Guitar, anytime.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-23-CD210923.u4	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, an excellent defender of the people, the conclusions of his 2018 monographic report on demography stated: 'Public administrations must promptly undertake to provide the inhabitants of sparsely populated areas with basic services guaranteeing them the exercise of a range of rights on an equal footing to those enjoyed by residents of large urban concentrations'. It also proposed - and continues to propose its institution - the need to provide basic services so that the citizens of the rural and depopulated areas have equal living conditions, as well as the necessary immediate implementation of Article 174 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Let me now suggest some questions for future reports on the problem of depopulation affecting your institution: get reports from the scientific centers that are investigating this problem, for example, at the Centre for Demographic Studies of the Autonomous University of Barcelona, with their work on demographic perspectives. Only one sample, in a 2020 publication, points to a worrying phenomenon: the brain drain and talent of the areas of emigration and the accumulation of qualified human capital, especially in Madrid and Barcelona. They say: 'The territorial imbalances between Spanish autonomous communities translate into the emigration of university graduates from some regions and the concentration of qualified human capital in others. The interior of the peninsula and the cantabrian cornice, where the intensity of the exit is accentuated by the change of century, are affected by dynamics of educational decapitalization and the emigration of young people in the cities. Depopulation is no longer an exclusive phenomenon of the rural environment, but extends to the urban areas of the secularly expelling autonomous communities.' We also ask you to seek reports from the CSIC Institute of Economics, Geography and Demography and to suggest that CSIC itself open lines of research on three topics: first, depopulation, its causes, effects and policies of success in the world; secondly, policies to reverse the territorial imbalances that are being pursued in Europe and that should be addressed in Spain; and thirdly, on a new model of land management based on the search for positive synergies between the big cities and the territory in order to overcome the current model based on a purely extractive approach. Require, Mr. Advocate, coordination between the policies of the Government and the Autonomous Communities for the correction of imbalances and the fight against depopulation and urge the Government and the communities to design and implement the rural guarantee mechanism that this Congress has proposed to the Government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-23-CD210923.u5	Thank you very much, Mr. Guitarte. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the same parliamentary group, Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-23-CD210923.u6	Thank you very much, Madam President. As a member of the General Courts, of which the Ombudsman is a high commissioner, I would like to congratulate and thank Mr Fernández Marugán and all those who work or have worked in the institution for the benefit of society. In the content of the annual report, I would like to dwell on the aspects relating to Asturias and to see the correctness of the removal in 2013 of the so-called procurator's office, which was an indispensable duplicity. Interestingly, since the disappearance of that body, the Asturians, rather than transferring more complaints, problems or needs to the Ombudsman, have done less. [[The Lord]] Ladies and gentlemen, the detailed document of 2020 reflects the cruelty and hardness of the crisis of the COVID-19 and no one has the slightest doubt about the exceptional intensity of this terrible pandemic period in the history of Spain which, in addition to health damage, has also had a severe impact on the activity of the administrations, on the economy and, ultimately, on family well-being. The report captures many calls for attention that constitute warnings to those of us who have political representation. This is the case of the lack of beds in public half-stay hospitals, which are very few, almost minimal. Together with these timely warnings, the various monographic studies that the institution has been carrying out on various subjects, for which not only have been found not palliative, but they are exacerbated over time, in the case of the galloping ageing, depopulation or migration problem. With the recognition of this type of study, and the thread of Mr Fernández Marugán's own words here in the rostrum, let me suggest to the Ombudsman a specific one about young people and their growing difficulties in accessing decent employment in Spain, which will be aggravated by the gradual extension of the working life of workers, with all that will mean for the new generations to be able to forge a personal and family future. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-23-CD210923.u7	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Vehi Cantenys has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-23-CD210923.u8	Thank you, President. I want to start by congratulating the people's advocacy team on the work, and I wanted to focus on one of the issues in a different way. The Ombudsman spoke of the problem of migration. We prefer to talk about the problem of migration policies, because in migration policies on many occasions, on too many occasions, the law is blind. What are we talking about? The report recounts many of these situations: endless bureaucracy filled with senseless voids, lack of legal and administrative appointments or limbos that are especially eaten up in young people without family references and that make up the institutional racism dressed in administrative neutrality, which is a nightmare for most people who are trying to get roles. But the report also recounts other more scandalous issues, if you want, violations of rights of all kinds. I want to highlight two. Firstly, containment policies in the Canary Islands. Ladies and gentlemen, on the southern border, in the Canary Islands, people are kept waiting in large camps under subhuman conditions, people with more than twenty days of detention followed by people who, as if they were won, are held without any explanation and often without all the minimum resources, I no longer say for migration policies from the Spanish or European perspective, but for life. But I also want to highlight a passage that the Ombudsman's team report puts on page 202. It literally speaks of the death of a child in the waters of the port of Melilla run by a Spanish Civil Guard patrolman. Casualty? There is no criminal punishment, no one has been able to clarify the responsibility for this fact. We are talking about the problem of migration policies because migration policies on the southern border of Spain, the migration policies that the European Union does on the southern border of Spain and for which the Government of Spain is responsible, are policies of death. The public defender said he didn't want to bore them with figures. I already bore you: more than 2100 dead people trying to get to Spain in the Strait of Gibraltar. This has to do with responsibility. The design of the institutional architecture of racism and death are responsible and also have a solution: the right to migration and, therefore, the right to life. Until there is talk and practice of the right to life, there will be people responsible for the deaths of thousands of people on the southern border. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-23-CD210923.u9	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Agirretxea Urresti has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-23-CD210923.u10	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. People's Advocate, I welcome you on behalf of my group. You know the personal esteem that I have for you and that we have you both for our coexistence as Members for many years and also when I chaired the Ombudsman's Committee. I will always thank you for your frankness, your nobility and your ability to analyse the situation. I remember three years after his speech I told him that his speech had been a kind speech of Marxism. Today I saw in the first part of his speech a skeptical Social Democrat. It is true that at the end of the intervention he became a socialist economist and ended up being a socialist deputy of the 1990s. It has even presented an economic-political programme, I am not going to say alternative, but rather a kind of call for attention to its own government and I liked it still to keep that kind of old socialist punch. Having said that, it is true that you are a defender of the people in office. The question is, what is it like to be in office? Because, after all, you are required the same activity. It's a matter that, in this house, someone will have to solve at some point. In any case, I hope that being in office doesn't end up in a kind of melancholy in which you just become a kind of notary who takes note of what's going on, but has no interest or desire to act before what you notice. I'm going in parts. You have said that everything is obviously involved in the pandemic and it is true. This year's report cannot be overshadowed because, after all, it would be a kind of report of the Ombudsman in a pandemic situation. In this pandemic situation that involves everything, the reality is that the problems are still the same with pandemic that without pandemic, acute and increased by the situation that this pandemic has entailed that we have all suffered. You have made a different view today from that of other years, because you have made a global view, almost an economic view of the matter, but from a point of view you have not entered into issues that we think are important, although they are obviously in the report. We, in seven minutes - I have four left - can't approach them all because it's impossible. Therefore, I will focus on four issues that I think are important. Regardless of all that has been said about the situation that has generated the pandemic, in your report you make a report of something that we care very much about, which is the situation of prison policy, the situation of prisons, prisons. There are issues that we find worrying, if not serious, because there are still the same problems as before. You say that the sentencing of Spain by the European Court of Human Rights on 19 January 2021, for insufficient investigation of a complaint of ill-treatment and that it joins others in the same vein, encourages the commitment to respond correctly to complaints and complaints. You see, this is not an invention of the PNV. You see this because the Spanish State continues to be involved in the same issues as always. He is accused of not investigating something and Europe draws his attention, and then, when we say it here, in the rostrum, they call us all. Second question. You're talking about deaths in prison, which is a little worrisome. It is true that the pandemic has hit him, but there have been many suicides. There is an issue that says that there have been difficulties in properly investigating alleged ill-treatment in prison, which was noted on the occasion of a visit by the National Mechanism for the Prevention of Torture and the Security and Justice Area to the Estremera Prison Centre in Madrid: the lack of a preceptive identification card as part of the uniformity in practice of all observed officials, the lack of internal rules on video surveillance and the absence of such rules in places critical for the prevention of ill-treatment, the possibility of officials consuming alcohol during work hours and the inadequate preparation of parts of injuries. Man, this seems like a very serious thing to me. There is another very important issue that you mention in your report, the issue of gender-based violence. It devotes a very large section to it and I think it notes issues that we have dealt with here, for example, how in pandemic times complaints have increased and gender-based violence has increased. You add one question that we have said here: the forced coexistence during all days of the confinement with the aggressor, apart from assuming double torture for the injured person, has meant the increase of the complaints. You argue that there must be policies and marks many gaps at the judicial level, because you say in your report that there have been complaints that certain staff in the Administration of Justice are not sufficiently prepared to address these issues. It also talks about social inclusion in other parts of the world, and so on. Therefore, it seems to me that these are important matters. The issue of young migrants seems to me to be another important issue. Today, an article appeared in a newspaper saying that the Government has not yet presented the programme it had prepared, it seems that Mr Escrivá has hidden it under the table, I don't know when they intend to take it out. Finally, there is an issue that you do not quote. I am referring to the issue of the linguistic rights of citizens with the Administration. It must be investigated because many citizens see that their linguistic rights with the General Administration of the State are not respected. The rights are of persons, and the linguistic rights of persons who speak official languages in the State - in some parts they are official, non-official - are not served by the General Administration of the State. Mr Marugán, thank you and your team very much for your report. I hope that they will continue to work in this way, denouncing and seeing what is wrong. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-23-CD210923.u11	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Giménez Giménez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-23-CD210923.u12	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Advocate General, thank you for your speech and for the work you have done. I will begin my speech by making a reference to linguistic rights and the non-indoctrination that is necessary in our classrooms with news. In a book at the ESO in Catalonia, foreigners are already considered, as an example of foreign Gentiles, to the people of Madrid, Extremadura or Malaga. Mr. People's Advocate, I began my speech with this topic to tell you that you have to do serious and rigorous work to defend the right to equality of children in Catalonia, to defend that there is no indoctrination in our classrooms. In addition, it seems to us that our parliamentary group has a substantial start with another of the rigorous aspects of this intervention, which is a fundamental issue: the independence of the Ombudsman. The High Commissioner of the General Courts, whose function is to defend the public rights and freedoms that we have in our Constitution, is a body of high constitutional relevance that has been imprisoned for the politicization of the People's Party and the Socialist Party, just as the rest of the organs of the State. For this reason, the Citizens' Parliamentary Group will today present a proposal for a law to guarantee the independence of the Ombudsman and to unlock his renewal, which has been pending for several years. Our group believes that a complete review of our procedures, of the appointments of all State bodies, including the Ombudsman, is inescapable. For what? To ensure that it is a process of free competition in access to this responsibility and to avoid any kind of governmental or parliamentary interference in the exercise of its functions and powers. In addition, we propose that the ombudsperson himself be recognized by merit competition, where all candidates must prove their skills and abilities before an evaluation committee that will be responsible for raising the pre-selection of candidates to the plenary of Congress and the Senate. In short, we want to give credibility to our institutions and improve the quality of the democratic system. That is why we want to highlight in this speech that we are going to present this bill and we hope that it will come forward, because it is best for the credibility of our country's institutions. In relation to your report, and thanking you for the work done, it is a very comprehensive report with many areas. We want to highlight some of them. There is a specific section that talks about situations of inequality, discrimination against the LGBTI collective, towards foreigners in an irregular situation, towards women, towards Roma people, and ultimately towards different population groups. I think it is clear to us that there are complaints from foreigners in an irregular situation who, when they are going to file a complaint, tell us that they are being opened, when they want to report a crime, expulsion procedures, and that is one of the issues you are addressing. It also addresses a number of relevant issues, such as children's organizations requesting intervention to promote specific measures to prevent the proliferation of hate speech against unaccompanied children. And there is something very relevant too: the right to education. We have talked about a very important issue in the right to equal education, which is that we should not indoctrinate in our classrooms. That is one of the relevant issues I have raised to you at the beginning of my speech. But, on the other hand, it is also necessary to guarantee the right to schooling and we have an alarming situation in Melilla, which you yourself have in your report. According to the Ombudsman himself, there are children from Melilla who are not in school because they come from Moroccan families living in Melilla and they are suspected of trying to school their children in law fraud, as pointed out by the Provincial Department of Education in Melilla. He also makes some mentions of quite relevant issues on gender equality issues that we will follow closely. For example, non-compliance with the legislation by preventing equal access to the governing bodies of a community of regents in Alicante. We will follow this very closely. Seeing the section on equality that you put before us, it also talks about disability and the situation of foreigners, it is clear to us that from this House we have to work on that comprehensive law of equal treatment and non-discrimination, and in which Citizens will have a very active position, and we will also work to ensure that there is this independent authority that is needed. We always start from the action since the independence of the relevant bodies and, in this case, from that equal treatment authority. It is also important and necessary to strengthen the Education Administration in Melilla and also in Ceuta, since the State has competence in the field of education in both cities. We have been saying this for years, from Citizens we have already urged the Government to increase the number of free places at the basic education stage and we have called for the establishment of a school council in both regions, but what happened is that the Government is listening deafly. We are talking about education, poverty, childhood and, in this case, the Government is listening deafly. You have exposed the situations of fragility. [[Rumors]] Excuse me for a moment, People's Party stand... [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-23-CD210923.u13	One second, Your Honor. [[The Rumors Continue]] Please lower the volume of your voice. [[Pause]] Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-23-CD210923.u14	Thank you, President. It's very difficult to concentrate with so much murmur. In the field of health, we have been referred to various structural problems: problems of fragility of emergency services, weakness in primary care, waiting lists in specialties. It has also emphasized one issue that we consider fundamental: mental health care. The Ombudsman in recent years has expressed in his reports concern about the insufficient attention in this area, which has placed us as one of the countries lagging behind at European level. We believe that it is time to face up, to have a political interest, to have a good public policy on this very important issue that has to do with the future of our young people, with the future of our society. It is a matter of addressing mental health as a priority. Alongside this, I would also like to highlight the area of housing. I would like to point out that you have spoken about the problems of young people - you do not give us time to make a thorough examination of everything - and one of them is housing, job insecurity, the impossibility of emancipation. The Youth Council itself has told us, and that is where we have to work because it is the future of the next generations. There is something very remarkable: how can there be examples in your report of local and autonomous public administrations that are driving vulnerable families out of their homes? How can that be done by the Administration itself? That's what's in your reports. This makes clear to us the framework within which we have to work on the housing law to keep moving forward. In Citizens we reiterate our thanks for your exhibition and we make ourselves available to you. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-23-CD210923.u15	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Carvalho Dantas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-23-CD210923.u16	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Marugán, one more year we must thank the work of the entire team of the Ombudsman's Office - of everything; of the whole team - which has been working on its own initiative, formulating its resolutions, recommendations, suggestions, reminders of legal duties, warnings and requests for appeal to the Constitutional Court, even though you have been finding the way, how not, the zero collaboration or, directly, the interference by the administrations. Today I want to talk about three very specific points. But before, I remind you, Mr Marugán - we have heard it here before and I know very badly, the truth - that immigration is not a problem. I'm sure you know that, and I'm sure it's a language addiction, but I'd like to make it pretty clear. Violence and institutional racism suffered by the immigrant population are so. First point. I would like to say that it is urgent for all people to know this institution and to make their complaints. From here, from the rostrum of the Congress of Deputies, I appeal to all people and platforms to defend and guarantee human rights, fundamental rights and public freedoms, aggrieved against the Spanish administrations to submit their complaints to the Ombudsman, always. Any citizen can turn to the Ombudsman and request his intervention - it is free - for any actions of the Spanish Public Administration and all its agents to be investigated. Second point. They're creepy spots. I have little time and I am not going to stick to his speech, but to his 2020 report, which has almost a thousand pages and which basically summarizes the conditions of precariousness and vulnerability in which a huge part of the population of the whole Spanish State lives. Also in these thousand pages there is the institutional racism present in the very insides of the structures of the State, in its laws, in its regulations, in its protocols, in its ordinances, etc. There were 981 files that were initiated by the delay in the processing of nationality files. There were 140 dossiers of organizations requesting an indefinite extension of the ban on energy supply cuts. In 2020, 38 complaints were received - I repeat: 38 complaints - concerning police ill-treatment and 206 complaints have also been received for incorrect treatment. But when we read the thousand pages - it is our job to read the thousand pages of this report and invite all citizens to do so too - we realize that the majority abused or aggrieved by the public administrations of the State and its agents belong to social minorities: the situation of migrants in the Canary Islands; deaths and torture in the CIEs; hot returns; the lack of appointments to process foreign affairs files; domestic workers; temporary workers; evictions; denials of asylum without following the law; ethnically-racial raids; non-vaccination of migrants; illegal deportations, etc. Mr. Defender, do you realize - I know why I read the report, of course you too - how many times have you reminded the Ministry of the Interior that you must guarantee the physical integrity of persons in police custody? Have you noticed, Mr. Ombudsman, how many times - it is in your report - you have reminded the Ministry of the Interior that it must cease in practice to request requirements not provided for in the law so that people can apply for international protection? Do you also realize, Mr. People's Advocate, how many times you reminded the medical services of the detention centres of foreigners that they urgently transferred the parts of the injuries of the CIEs to the custody court and the control court of the CIEs? This is a barbarity. The Ombudsman's reports are a portrait of how the State treats people. Third and last, the achievements. Administrations really move pushed, but sometimes they move. I would like to highlight one very important point that has been achieved, not only by the Ombudsman, but also by the victims of institutional abuse, the families of the victims, social mobility for citizens, NGOs, platforms for the defence and guarantee of the rights of the people and, of course, also the Ombudsman. More than one hundred and sixty children have been successfully enrolled in Melilla. This is an issue that has not only affected these one hundred and sixty children, but comes from many years ago and also referred to in previous Ombudsman reports. The State did not allow these boys and girls to be enrolled and therefore were not in school. It is therefore an achievement, it must be said here and thanks must be given to the Ombudsman's Office for its ex officio, according to the rules, and for the requests of the human rights platforms, whose claim was constant. Finally, Mr. People's Advocate and the Ombudsman's team, they have a'very nice' courtyard - in quotes, of course - for the next year with the absolutely illegal deportations - I repeat: illegal - from Ceuta to Morocco of the migrant minors, as well as with the violence of all kinds that the LGBTI collective in the Spanish State is suffering. Thank you very much. Until the next report. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-23-CD210923.u17	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Velarde Gómez has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-23-CD210923.u18	Before I begin, I would like to express my group's appreciation for the work of the Ombudsman's institution. As I also said in the Senate at the previous appearance to present this report, I would also like this recognition to be transferred to the workers of the institution that it runs. The report presented here today highlights another pandemic, in addition to the health caused by the coronavirus, the pandemic of cuts and the ill-treatment of public services carried out by the governments of the People's Party from 2011 to 2018. It is no coincidence that the vast majority of complaints received by the Ombudsman are about health and, in particular, about primary care and elderly residences. Your report, Mr Marugán, calls on us to strengthen primary care, which comes from years of cuts. In communities such as Andalusia, which is my land, the waiting list for telephone calls now exceeds 15 days and in the Community of Madrid the primary care emergency services have been closed 550 days. This isn't a coincidence. What's the point? As I say, letting public services die is not a coincidence, because what is intended is for citizens to hire private health insurance to enrich private businesses and weaken our public health system. Strengthening the public health system is not only a question of justice and economic efficiency, but also a question of public health, because in the face of new pandemics it is primary care that prevents emergencies, ICUs and hospital plants from collapsing. Those who destroy primary care, and I will say this, gentlemen of the PP, gentlemen of VOX and gentlemen of Citizens, are not only playing with the health of our people, but are making inefficient use of public resources. On health management, I would like to highlight the coordination that has been demonstrated by most of the autonomy with this Government, although some, such as Madrid, have not respected the advice and decisions of the Interterritorial Council of the National Health System, as we know, even allowed themselves to oppose the health decisions of the Spanish Government at the harshest time of the pandemic - I would remind you - and therefore put public health in jeopardy throughout the country. This must be remembered. The most tragic point in the report - I do not want to leave it behind - is undoubtedly the situation of the elderly residences, which brings together most of the complaints of the citizenry. It is not tolerable that 70% of the 5417 elderly residences in Spain are private. A basic human right cannot become a business for investment funds and construction companies, which have been cashing with residences. Nor is the high number of elderly people who have died in the elderly residences during this pandemic tolerable, nor do we have to see how these places, which had to have been social health centres, have become mere warehouses of grandparents and grandmothers. A decent country is also measured by how it treats our elders, parents who built our democracy and those who as a country have failed them. To govern is to manage solutions. Therefore, we manage as quickly as possible a solution to the needs of our elders, to be possible with the political consensus of all groups. Mr Marugán also spoke about young people. The situation of young people is also very complicated, through access to employment, access to housing or emancipation. In this Congress we must all work in this direction. I link it to education, because the report reveals what has been said for many years by movements in favour of public school: cuts in education are a brake on social progress and a road to inequality. Therefore, after years of cuts and privatizations, which have also resulted in this stagnation of public education, we have to remember that autonomous communities - I repeat - like mine, Andalusia, like Madrid and Murcia are currently making cuts, despite having received the necessary funds from this government to strengthen education. The Ombudsman's 2020 report is very positive about the social protection and salvation of families, businesses and workers thanks to the social shield and the ERTEs that have been launched by the Ministry of Labour and Social Economy and that have been key for us to recover in one year the levels of social contributions prior to the pandemic, while from the crisis of 2008 - I recall - it took us eleven years to recover, to benefit from policies of impoverishment, unemployment and destruction of businesses. There is one fact that seems absolutely remarkable to me, and that is that for the first time in a crisis in Spain the evolution of wage employment has been better than that of GDP. In other words, for the first time in Spain a crisis has not resulted in the destruction of the labour market. Therefore, it is not the same as you, the bench on the right, that we do it ourselves, and that has become clear and clear. There are also quite a few complaints about the administration of justice, and it is therefore urgent that we get to work and modernize. I take the opportunity to ask the PP to release the renewal of the General Council of the Judiciary. More than a thousand complaints have also come to the Ombudsman about the increase in suicides and cases of ill-treatment of inmates by prison officials. Sometimes we forget that the only right that a citizen loses when he is sentenced to prison is freedom. It is vital that our prison system also has video recording and research systems and that there are more educators, social workers, sociologists and treatment staff. I'm on my way. We're also very concerned about migrations, but I don't have time. The delay in the processing of residence cards has also been highlighted by this lack of staff after years of emptying of the Public Service.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-23-CD210923.u19	Your Honor, you must go ahead and finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-23-CD210923.u20	I'm on my way. With regard to gender-based violence, we are very concerned about the historical increase in calls to 016 and 061 and that this has also resulted in a decrease in the number of complaints.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-23-CD210923.u21	Your Honor, finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-23-CD210923.u22	I'm on my way. Thank you very much to the Ombudsman for this report and I hope that we will all work on all those issues that have been before us. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-23-CD210923.u23	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Calvo Liste has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-23-CD210923.u24	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Mrs Vehí and Mrs Carvalho, we cannot tolerate the demonstrations that have taken place about the Civil Guard and the National Police. [[Applauds]] Precisely these bodies are to ensure the safety of all and have saved many lives, as they have shown in Ceuta, Melilla, the Canary Islands and, in general, throughout Spain. [[Applauds]] Mr. Fernández Marugán, another year here and you continue acting after four years. Your interim situation reflects more of the incompetence of this Government to resolve an abnormal situation, the result of party politicization of institutions such as yourself. A ombudsperson who works in favour of the ideological interests of the government party generates little confidence in his work as a supervisor of Spanish public administrations and the defence of the fundamental rights of citizens. In his report, it is revealing that the number of cases opened amounts to almost 50% more than the previous year and that, in the face of this increase, we find that ex officio proceedings have decreased by 30%. Moreover, it must be borne in mind that the decline in the Office of the Ombudsman takes place precisely in the year when more cases are opened, coinciding with a major health crisis, with the action of a Government which has carried out the greatest violation of the fundamental rights and freedoms of the Spaniards and which, as we see, is prepared to violate the laws and trample on the Constitution. Its activity is already reflected in the report, so I will refer to one of the many aspects in which it has either not entered or has been profiled. You decided not to raise unconstitutionality on the state of alarm, as you were asked nothing but 617 citizens. This request was documented in a 25-page paper, claiming that during the state of alarm there was not a suspension of fundamental rights, but a limitation. No wonder your inaction, but don't worry, you have not been the only one, because the rest of the parliamentary groups have done the same, to appeal; for that was already VOX. [[Applauds]] The ruling of the Constitutional Court has left all the groups, but also you, Mr Fernández Marugán. Just this grave reason, to leave the Spaniards helpless in the face of the kidnapping of their lives, their families and their businesses, without you having done anything, makes it morally impossible for you to follow the lead of an institution that has not lived up to your responsibilities. Will you now ask that the Spanish who have been harmed by this suspension of fundamental rights and freedoms be compensated? Nor did the eleven autonomous ombudsmen, whose best destination would be their suppression, with the significant budgetary savings that it entails, leaving only the state, as long as it works for the benefit of the Spanish. And not only does VOX say it, it also says it, and so recommends, the Commission for the Reform of Public Administrations. Nor does it fully enter into the problem of depopulation. Only fourteen pages relate the situation known to all and a proposal for a solution, and I quote literally: immigration as a more plausible solution. Now we understand his phrase 'children no longer come from Paris, now come from Africa'. Not a mention of the necessary support for the family or the promotion of birth. What happened, after two years, to the depopulation map created by the project Serranía Celtibérica and assumed by its defender? Why don't you insist? Emptied Spain is Spain abandoned by all governments. Your report also contains a reference to the petitions of victims of terrorism, and you derive responsibility from the Government with the reform of Law 29/2011. You have recommended that wolves take care of the sheep, because there is nothing but an analysis of the recent events, where the Government continues to allow the humiliation of the victims of terrorism, elenalization and the rapprochement of the killer terrorists. And it has to do so because the ages are part of the pact they made with Zapatero that has led to Henri Parot's party being here and being an indispensable partner for Sánchez's governance and support in his budgets. I want to send from here a strong hug to our colleague José Alcaraz and all the victims of terrorism, who planted face last Saturday in Mondragon to ETA terrorists. [[Applauds]] We told you last year, Mr Fernández Marugán, and I remind you this year: never in this House have so many enemies of Spain sat down. To conclude, I will refer to another fact which highlights its partial attitude and which is reflected in the report, specifically in the annex on children and adolescents. I am referring to minors who are victims of sexual abuse and exploitation in the Balearic Islands and the Canary Islands. You avoid directly investigating these cases, as you have done with others who are politically concerned on the left. It has decided to delegate to the Committee of Experts, set up in 2020, to gather its conclusions. Well, we couldn't wait any longer. With regard to those sexual abuses that have occurred in a social-communist government in the Balearic Islands - you already knew the result since the commission was set up; you could have picked it up in the report, but you have not - the conclusion was that there has been no political responsibility. These girls have been abandoned by all the institutions, including the one you represent. Mr Fernández Marugán, leave the Ombudsman's institution. If you have not been able to defend the Spaniards against the kidnapping of an illegal state of alarm or the victims of terrorism or the girls of Balearic Islands and the Canary Islands, let me go. To defend the Spaniards there is only VOX left. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause by the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, on the ground]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-23-CD210923.u25	For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Delgado Arce has the floor. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-23-CD210923.u26	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Fernández Marugán, ombudsman of the people in office, cordial greetings from the People's Parliamentary Group on the occasion of the presentation of the annual management report for 2020. We are certainly talking about a year marked by the world pandemic of the COVID-19 which hit Spain hard and which undoubtedly influenced the so notable increase in complaints in relation to the previous year, a further 41.5%. You affirm that this crisis has highlighted the need to assess the role of the State, of services and of public services, and it is true, but stressing that it consolidated the autonomous communities, which suffered constantly from the shortcomings of the Government of Spain. Mr Marugán, we recognize the internal work of the institution, but we must regret, and we are doing so here today too, the delay in informing the General Courts, of which you are a high commissioner, about the different complaints received by citizens in the same year 2020 and the efforts you have made to assist them. We had to wait until November 26, 2020, when we had asked for several groups already since April of the same year. Of course, that is always covered by the Socialist Group and the Parliamentary Group of the United Nations. Ladies and gentlemen, I will simply address three issues in the very extensive Ombudsman's report. Firstly, health, the great concern during 2020. You notice in your report that you received three times as many health complaints, most of them related to COVID-19. You say that the pandemic has exacerbated the weaknesses of the National Health System, which, according to you, is made up of the health services of the Autonomous Communities, but your report hardly highlights the management deficiencies of the Ministry of Health as the highest responsible for public health. He did not comment on the late and insufficient response to the pandemic warnings that were coming or on the absence of the committee of experts that scandalized that country. Nor have you attached importance to quantifying the number of victims. There is also no comment on the lack of transparency of entities linked to the Ministry of Health, such as that we do not have records of the sessions of the Public Health Commission or the Interterritorial Council of the National Health System. You call for us to come to great agreements and legislation on health, but the government has not so far put any of the measures agreed upon in the Reconstruction Commission or set up the state public health agency. In your report, Mr Advocate, you strongly affirm that the current legislation on public health of 1986, together with the autonomous legislation, was and still is more than sufficient to address special measures to protect public health in the event of situations of serious risk on the part of the health authorities. But do not expect you to find in the report any recommendation for the adoption of that state law of pandemics that are being demanded by the autonomous communities, the higher courts of justice, the Council of State and local corporations, a law that would save lives and enable these differences from the courts to be filled in on issues such as the COVID passport or curfews. I now turn to the question of economic activity, to which the human rights defender has devoted a great deal of time. Yes, Mr Advocate, the economic crisis we have experienced has been and is still being monumental, but that of Spain is the worst, by the way, of all OECD countries. The gross domestic product contracted 19.8%, 123 billion losses of wealth in 2020, much more than every year together from the previous crisis of 2008, to which the defender intends to counter the monumental one we are living. At that time, only 89 billion euros of the country's wealth were lost, and quite a few were lost. The Spanish public administrations raised their debt by 24 percentage points - in the European Union this increase reached 10.3% -; 107 000 companies have been closed; 724 000 Spaniards went to unemployment in 2020; 755,000 in ERTE; we beat the record for youth unemployment; we are the second - with 34% - higher rate of female unemployment in 2020. And you, Mr. Defender, say that we have reacted in a satisfactory way to this - you say - through the liquidity lines, through the ERTE. Of course, the ERTEs have been an extraordinary measure envisaged in the labour reform, approved by the People's Parliamentary Group, but the Spanish Government refused to grant direct aid despite the claims of the sectors concerned, and we are the country that has the least aid available in this respect. It seems to us that the people's defender is already coming up to this rostrum and is acting as the Finance Spokesman of the Socialist Parliamentary Group or, if you want, as the interim finance minister, because the approach he has addressed to this House of the rise of taxes as the Ombudsman, Commissioner of all of you, seems absolutely inappropriate to us. What will the hairdressers, the hoteliers, the merchants, the SMEs, the car repair shop, the aluminium workshop, the professionals, the taxi drivers, the transporters think at a time when the consumption has not recovered, when they are still living a situation of economic weakness, in which many of them are still unable to incorporate the staff they had under their control, at a time when the price of energy is more expensive than ever, that the People's Ombudsman - Commissioner of all - comes up to this rostrum to incite the rise of taxes, in which many of them are still unable to incorporate the personnel they had under their control, at the moment when the price of the energy is more expensive than ever, that the People's Ombudsman - although we do not say that it is that we can'tly so. [[Applauds]] [[Applauds]] You have every right in the world to have your ideology - so far we could get there - we have valued you as a good deputy when you sat on that bench but, as a defender of the people in that rostrum, do not count on us. Not like that, Mr. People's Advocate. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-23-CD210923.u27	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Sánchez Escobar has the floor for the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-23-CD210923.u28	Mr. President, thank you. Mr. Fernández Marugán, welcome to your home. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to thank the Ombudsman and his entire team in a very special way for this report, since it is the most unique because of the difficult and complicated year that we have had because of the pandemic; it has required further reinforcement for obvious reasons. Therefore my appreciation of the professionalism of the team as a whole. And, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, if it seems so bad to you that the Ombudsman is doing the job, unlock the institutions. [[Applauds]] The report reflects the reality of our country and the effects of austerity policies, as well as the cuts implemented year after year by the People's Party and its impact on the areas of society, deteriorating health, education, housing and equality. As an example, the shortcomings of our health system: primary care, waiting lists, emergencies, maintenance of centers and lack of professionals. For this reason, the Government in Health is moving from a budget of 327 million to 3421 million, i.e. an increase of 3094 million, an increase of 946.8 %. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, EUR 1011 million for the purchase of vaccines, to save lives, to recover our economy, to recover our social life, in short, for the recovery of our country. But you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, voted against the purchase of vaccines; yes, ladies and gentlemen, as the whole of Spain knows, the People's Party voted against the purchase of vaccines to combat the pandemic, and I do not say so, there are the records that reflect it. [[Applauds]] This Government began to vaccinate already, which was what had to be done to combat the virus. [[Rumors]] On April 14, the president of the government...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-23-CD210923.u29	One second, Your Honor, I've stopped your time. Have you calmed down yet? Can we continue, please? Please continue.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-23-CD210923.u30	On April 14, the President of the Government announced that we would arrive at the end of the summer with 70% of the population vaccinated with a full schedule. On 1 September, Sanidad certifies the achievement of this objective and, today, three out of every four Spaniards have the complete pattern, that is, approximately 77 or 78% and, in an imminent way, the immunity of the group and, as always, the People's Party putting sticks on the wheels, hoping that the vaccination would be chaos, but again they were wrong, ladies and gentlemen, Spain leads with the complete pattern at international level and, in the meantime, Mr Casado to his own: he is going to Brussels to try to frustrate the economic aid of Europe to Spain, and he continues to do so, he is going to Morocco to discredit this government that is so much and so well working for Spain. It is undoubtedly the worst opposition in the democratic history of this country. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, the group of elderly residences has been the group that has suffered the most from the attack of the virus; therefore, the Socialist Group particularly values the success of vaccination in these centres, ordering them first for their vulnerability and thus halting the attack of the virus in the residential centres and preventing many deaths. According to the report, the health emergency affects almost all sectors, especially housing, and to this end the Government paralyses evictions, temporarily and extraordinarily postpones the payment of rent and applies aid called for in the leases of the usual housing; 1151 million for the rehabilitation plan that has already begun and another 1 billion will be transferred in 2022 for the construction of social housing. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, it is not the same thing to sell social housing to vulture funds, as you do, that the policy of this government, based on the construction of 100,000 housing for social rent. [[Applauds]] It's not the same, ladies and gentlemen. On the other hand, the report highlights deficiencies in school facilities, complications for scholarships, grants and to ensure inclusive and university education. To this end, the Government allocates 5465 million for education, which is 56.1% more than in 2020. Lomlou is approved, with such important axes as children's rights, gender equality, the improvement of educational institutions and the personalisation of learning, and you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, all of this vote no, vote no, not progress and not the recovery of our country. Ladies and gentlemen of VOX, the COVID-19 crisis has given rise to a greater risk of male violence, and although the number of fatalities has fallen compared to the previous year, violence has not fallen. According to the ministry, since 2003 there have been 1113 dead women, killed by men, Mrs. Olona, by men, since you said here a few days ago that if we knew what men were. Yes, these men have killed 1113 women; this year alone this year they are already 35. That is why the Government will continue to work with the catalogue of urgent measures of the Plan to Improve Gender Violence, which is a bad thing for you. [[Applauds]] Mr Marugán, we welcome the fact that the Ombudsman's recommendations to and commitment to various ministries have been accepted. In addition, the adoption of the Organic Law for the Comprehensive Protection of Children and Adolescents from Violence will help to achieve greater protection for minors who are victims of vicarious violence, 42 children since 2013. Undoubtedly, one of the most important concerns of this Government was and is the protection of vulnerable wage, self-employed and collective workers economically affected by the pandemic, and the Government has done what it has done has been to prevent this negative impact through the ERTE, through the minimum living income, from the special social fund for families, from the 16 billion fund for the autonomous communities to guarantee public services, extraordinary benefits for cessation of activity or the rise of the SMI. Look, in seven years of the People's Party government it has risen 94 euros and in only three of this government it has risen 219 euros. [[Applauds]] All this, ladies and gentlemen, to cushion the revenues of 2020, is twice what the People's Party did in the financial crisis. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, it can be ruled in another way in a crisis: in the face of its cuts and austerity, investments and more social measures that create opportunities for others. Spanish citizenship has been up to the point in their homes without leaving, watching family and friends die, especially being a society like ours, which likes to be on the street, to live life and to be with its people. He doesn't deserve the bochornous spectacle that is seen in all the control sessions to the government and in most of the commissions...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-23-CD210923.u31	Mr. Sanchez, you must finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-23-CD210923.u32	I'm done. ...and in the commissions by the People's Party and the ultra-right, as last Tuesday, ladies and gentlemen. Shameful. This government, ladies and gentlemen, is taking care of people without leaving anyone behind, so that you can live decently, and in the meantime I do not know what you are playing at. Please be responsible and return to politics and put aside the ongoing confrontation. Thank you very much, Mr Fernández Marugán. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-23-CD210923.u33	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-23-CD210923.u34	We turn to the next point, amendments adopted by the Senate to the bill amending Royal Decree-Law 17/2020 of 5 May, approving measures to support the cultural and tax sector to address the economic and social impact of COVID-19. Mr Quevedo Iturbe has the floor on behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group. [[Pause]] We move on to the next speaker; Mrs Aizpurua Arzallus has the floor by the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group. Excuse me, Mrs. Aizpurua, Mr. Quevedo has just entered. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-23-CD210923.u35	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning to all and everyone. A thousand apologies, but fortunately people stop you in the hallways to ask you how things are going in La Palma, and they ask it seriously and with solidarity, and that is something you are grateful for. So, excuse me for not being where I had to be at the time I was called. Today with these amendments, with one of them at the second final provision, a contentious, in our view completely unnecessary, which was established between the Government of Spain and the Canary Islands in relation to a unilateral modification of the REF that had occurred in two royal decree-laws, and in this at the beginning, in which we are dealing. This amendment to the additional 14th provision of the 1994 Canary Islands REF Act came to imply, to impose, without first asking for the opinion of the Canarian Parliament and the Government of the Canary Islands, a principle that is, once again, withdrawn, in our forum, is in the Spanish Constitution, is in the new Canary Islands Autonomy Statute and is also in the modification of the REF that took place in 2018. This is an issue that is related to audio-visual production bonuses that is not at all quantitatively relevant. We are talking about whether the maximum deduction should be EUR 12.5 million or EUR 18 million for audiovisual productions that are able to justify it, obviously. Therefore, quantitatively it did not seem to be an excessive issue because, with which it is falling, that amount of money is the parrot's chocolate, literally; but from the qualitative point of view and respect for principles it was completely unabsorbable for New Canarias. This was also the case for the Government of the Canary Islands and for the Parliament of the Canary Islands, which had to issue a negative report, unanimously, on this unilateral modification of the REF which, in our view, did not comply with the principles of the REF and which, moreover, had not been submitted to the previous opinion of the Canarian Parliament. With today's amendment from the Senate on this matter, normality and respect for the basic rules, which are available to the Canary Islands in order to defend their interests and their uniqueness, are restored. It is clear that the tax differential, in this case, should be 80% - no more - higher than the average tax differential of this type of policy in the Spanish State as a whole. And that is not so for a whim, it is so because if it is not impossible the competitiveness of the Canary Islands, that is the meaning of the Economic and Fiscal Regime of the Canary Islands, try to equal our land with the average of all the communities of the Spanish State. For that reason, a year and four months after an unnecessary conflict and unnecessary damage to the sector, it is also true that it has been minimized by the harsh pandemic times, especially in the difficult times we have been through this past year, is now being resolved. Therefore, Nueva Canarias, which has voted against all the royal decrees-laws, not because we were against the substance of the royal decrees, but because it was our way of expressing the protest about this violation of the rights of our land, comes today to say that this issue is resolved. The Parliament of the Canary Islands unanimously considered that the principles of the REF have been restored with this amendment, an amendment which, I must say, was agreed between the Socialist Party and New Canary Islands, after a meeting - I will not say simply - with the Minister of Finance to try to correct this issue. That agreement is therefore being honoured today. The Parliament of the Canary Islands unanimously recognises that the REF is being restored, the Government of the Canary Islands is issuing a positive report, and now what we have to say is that we hope that this will serve to ensure that, in matters such as this, and especially in matters far more relevant than those on the table, something like this will not happen again. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-23-CD210923.u36	Thank you so much. Mrs Aizpurua Arzallus has the floor for the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-23-CD210923.u37	Eskerrik asko, president. Egun on, good morning. Long journeys begin with some royal decrees. It has been more than a year since he began his journey and, if you recall, he arrived here at a tragic time for the cultural sector, a sector that was already carrying with it endemic diseases and the pandemic came to sharpen them. At this time, companies, projects under way and also projects and dreams of the future have disappeared. Perhaps on the way there have been lost great artists who have had to claudiate in the face of the difficult situation presented to them, we will never know. Calculating the loss that this probable disappearance entails is impossible and regrettable too; it should not have happened. At the time, when the royal decree arrived here, our assessment was quite positive, because it set in motion lines of action, through subsidy, and a system of protection was used to care for people in the sector who, from night to morning, had seen their incomes reduced to zero. The decree collected measures for the financing of the cultural sector and measures to support the performing arts, music, cinema and the arts. However, he had shortcomings and, therefore, we abstained at the time. By recalling this and setting an example, the decree left many professionals in the artistic and cultural fields unprotected, because it was not applicable to technicians or assistants, who had the same characteristics of intermittentness and temporality as the rest of the sector and therefore suffered the same consequences of the crisis as the rest, but did not include them. Then came another new decree, of 3 November, a decree of strange mixture, but it is also true, because it included the Taurus workers, who came to solve this situation. At the time we censored all these shortcomings that I pointed out and also said that, in comparison with other European countries, it was clear that their differentiated cultural and linguistic realities were being better addressed. This was not done and was another example of this recognition of multilingualism, which is valued here at a discursive level by the Government, but it is only until the time comes to put black on white in the regulations, and plurilingualism, defense, the protection it needs disappears from the tangible, and it has happened this very week with what we have known from the preliminary draft of the audiovisual law that, as we have already announced, we will not support in any case if this one does not have changes in silence. He spoke of the passage of the decree of aid to culture from Congress to the Senate, and it is true that on this journey there have been notable changes; not many, perhaps, in terms of quantity, but in terms of quality. Agreements have been reached on contributions from the musicians' sector, which was a demand from trade unions and musician's cooperatives, and which represented a serious problem that is now being resolved. Improvements have also been envisaged in other areas, such as in the book. They are benefits for the sector, which we value. Therefore, we will say yes to this bill and, for the rest of the outstanding issues, we will continue to wait for the status of the artist who, at last, seems to be beginning to take his first steps. We trust that all unresolved issues that continue to keep much of the sector in a state of genuine fragility and that are, in fact, pending a thread will be answered. This is the reality: they were the first to accuse the pandemic and will really be the last to get out of it. We must take this into account and take effective, prosaic, concrete measures, which will determine whether the support for the culture that is provided from here is real or are floral games. Let us act accordingly and bear in mind that culture, in addition to all the suggestive ideas and quotations that can arouse us, is also the tool that allows us to form as people and articulate the necessary critical thinking. And if I speak of culture and critical discourse, I am proud to bring to this rostrum the name of a brilliant playwright, forgotten and ignored by the official; an intellectual whom institutional silence and punishment for thinking differently accompanied in his life; a great author who, despite everything, knew how to resist, live in the discreet charm of marginalization, as he liked to say. Alfonso Sastre is, without fear of exaggerating, if not the greatest Spanish playwright of the last decades, but one of the greatest. And a great Basque, because he decided to be so and decided to live in a country he loved and admired. His work was a permanent pulse against censorship. His life was a commitment to freedom, and his thought a constant exploration of the human essence. He was a brilliant author, a lucid intellectual; so lucid, that he did not fight mills, but giants; and he was a builder of great paradoxes, like the one he gave us in his last interview to a media outlet. Peace is a subversive idea, he said. Alfonso Sastre died last week at his home in Hondarribia, and today in Euskal Herria, in Madrid of the good people, in the fantastic taverns of the world we have, like Guillermo Tell, sad eyes. From this rostrum of Congress, with all merit and with all our recognition, Alfonso Sastre, agur eta ohore. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-23-CD210923.u38	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Basque Parliamentary Group, EAJ-PNV, Mr Agirretxea Urresti has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-23-CD210923.u39	Thank you, Mr. President. I will speak very briefly, if I may, from the seat. First of all, I would also like to congratulate you, as we are going to deal with a subject that comes from a bill of aid to the cultural sector, to Miren Agur Meabe, who is the recent winner of the National Prize for Poetry for a book that has written in Basque, and to whom you have given this deserved award. [[Continues your intervention in Basque]] This is a bill that comes from the Senate with amendments that have been made to it, which in turn resulted from a real decree-law on aid to the cultural sector which, as has been said, clearly came from an imperative need at a time when the pandemic generated in the cultural sector, leaving it entirely timed and in need of urgent aid. We solved it with the royal decree, but then it was treated as a bill, and it was also amended in that bill. I believe that some were left in the air, others were agreed in a certain way, and this bill was passed in this House. He then went to the Senate and - we are going to say this clearly - Pandora's box was opened, incorporating things that I do not question that are right or that are wrong, but that perhaps they should not be in this bill, because there are some questions that answer, for example, social security issues. And we, as a parliamentary group in the Senate, maintained a criterion not to enter into it because we felt that it did not belong to it, and today we are going to do the same. That is, we consider that there are contributions that are also important, but there are others that some groups consider necessary to include in this bill, and we believe that they are not. But, after all, at the bottom of the matter is that patches have had to be put in. I'm not talking about those who urgently needed help, but patched up for the lack of the artist's status. They will say: there is already the PNV with the status of the artist; yes, there is the PNV with the status of the artist because it seems that we are the only ones who are with the status of the artist. We had a minister who passed without pain or glory, from beginning to end of his career as a minister, who was constantly asked and he said: already, by tomorrow, by the day after tomorrow, and has gone and the status of the artist I do not know where he is. It seems that now someone has begun to move, we will see; I, as Saint Thomas. Therefore, these issues might not have been resolved, but yes, at least much better addressed if we had had that express request that this House made of the elaboration of the status of the artist. Let's hope he arrives sooner than later, because as another minister has to pass, by the time he arrives, we make it clear. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-23-CD210923.u40	Thank you. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Díaz Gómez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-23-CD210923.u41	Thank you, President. That's what I needed to hear this morning: a tribute to Alfonso Sastre here in the rostrum by Bildu. What do you like most about Sastre's work? His involvement in the murders for which he was convicted and his membership in the terrorist gang ETA? [[Mr. Iñarritu García makes negative signs]] No, don't dance with me, it's a very serious subject. What do you like the most? Why are you staring at Sastre? Why this tribute to Sastre? Can you tell me what your favorite work is? [[Applauds]] If you know her completely, tell us, because there are many things to be clarified of this type. And you, gentlemen of the Socialist Party, must now attend to the constant exaltation of terrorists! This is already dark brown. You, yesterday in the Senate, did not support banning tributes to terrorists. [[Applauds]] They're all over the fucking day thinking about Franco and the victims of Francoism, which is fine, but we have people living in this very Chamber who have suffered the barbarity of terrorism. All right, all right, all You are normalizing a very dangerous issue and over time you will regret it, because this is the moral emptiness of the state. We must not pay tribute to Sastre for nothing, for absolutely nothing. So, what a shame of intervention! [[Applauds]] On the rule that we bring here, I will tell you that we will vote in favour of many of the amendments that come from the Senate. If I tell you that this royal decree is the last to come out, the last reaction of the government to the pandemic. In fact, this Royal Decree on the protection of the cultural sector was moved because the sector was organized and pressured effectively on the ministry. It was the last royal decree to assist the sector, but the date of the royal decree, which is here in September 2021, is Royal Decree 17/2020, of May 5. That is, the royal decree came out on May 5th last year and we have it here in September 2021. Good thing they were urgent measures! The Ministry of Culture is like the U.S. Army chasing Team A: it appears when the credit cards come. And you'll say it's better to have a Ministry of Culture than not to have it, but if you don't do anything, it looks a lot like you don't have it. What is the current situation? At the outset, we have to bear in mind that the culture sector was already very much punished in the previous moments - especially in some of its ramifications, such as the film exhibition - before the pandemic. This has involved the closure of many cinemas, the dismissal of many people and the postponement or suspension of many productions and shoots that there were. The slowness of the ministry is not good, it is not good for anyone. It is better to say in this case what will be done or what will not be done, than an endless gerund without effective results for anyone. According to data from the Ministry of Culture and Sport itself, in the first quarter of 2021 cultural employment stood at 675 600 people, representing an annual decrease, compared to the same quarter of 2020, of 4.7%; compared to the first quarter of 2019, of 3%. What does this mean? This means that it is one of the sectors most punished by the pandemic. In turn, paid cultural employment in the first quarter of 2021 stood at 450 400, down from the same quarter of the previous year by 7,2 %. For its part, the non-employee cultural sector employees were 225,200 people, an increase of 1.7% over the same quarter of the previous year. What does this mean? This means that workers in the cultural sector are subject to instability, precariousness and loss of employment. And I say to precariousness because one in four workers in this sector has a temporary contract, namely 98,700 employees. This is inadmissible. It is unacceptable to do nothing in the face of this situation. A sector which contributed 3.2% of gross domestic product and, on the other hand, receives public contributions, in terms of GDP, 0.06% from the State, 0.1% from the Autonomous Government and 0.28% from the Local Government. I am only measuring the economic figure; I am not measuring, because it is not measurable, which brings the cultural sector into the intangible, the intangible, the non-economic. By the way - already said the spokesman of the Basque Parliamentary Group -, regarding the status of the artist, please put on the piles, because, if you had had the status of the artist implemented, these figures would not be what they are, would have saved many of these working circumstances that have occurred. Finally, we regret that during the proceedings in Congress they did not support amendments by Citizens, such as the creation of a very useful rescue fund for the cultural sector; the adoption of fiscal measures that favored the national and international investment of the gambling industry in Spain; increasing the percentage of the deduction of the first 150 euros in the case of sponsorship to 100 percent; eliminating the provision for university fees to address this issue in a bill on university issues; and increasing the amount of the deduction by investments in Spanish and foreign film productions. We welcome - not everything has been wrong - the improvement they have made in the regulation of the procedure for the authorisation of the agreed measures on the protection of intellectual property on the Internet; this was an amendment by Citizens who have approved and whom I thank. I am also grateful that you have approved our proposal to delete Article 11.6 of the bill to eliminate the link between the aid for cinema, the screen fee; it has been a good thing to delete it too. And you're done with this, President. I also congratulate you on your endorsement of our proposal to promote a reform of the work of the Second Section of the Commission that protects intellectual property in the Office of the Prosecutor. So thank you very much. And, gentlemen of Bildu...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-23-CD210923.u42	Finally, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-23-CD210923.u43	... Tell us what they like most about Alfonso Sastre's work. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-23-CD210923.u44	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Miquel i Valentí has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-23-CD210923.u45	Thank you, President. Good morning. Ladies and gentlemen, today, almost a year and a half after the adoption of this Royal Decree-Law 17/2020, we have ended the circle of a rule that is more than necessary and urgent, despite the fact that it was already late in this House. If we review the timetable a little bit, one realizes that if these measures were already necessary before the pandemic, since the cultural sector was already a precarious sector, with highly precarious working conditions, the pandemic did accentuate a very serious problem, especially from the point of view of work, that had the cultural sector of our country. Despite this, despite this urgency, the Government took almost two months to present this project, these proposals, these urgent measures to alleviate the damage caused by the pandemic in the cultural sector throughout the territory; two months after the declaration of the state of alarm the minister affirmed what Orson Welles said that first life and then cinema, which added to the difficulties of the cultural sector the insult and lack of respect of the minister to the whole cultural sector, which asked them more patience while the ministry did not give a single response or a single measure to alleviate their situation. In spite of that, despite the delay, came this royal decree that provided labor and fiscal measures that seem interesting to us and that seem to us in many cases opportune. That is why we support it at the time, and we will return to it - and I commend it - to do it again here today in this final procedure, after the law itself has come from the Senate. Ladies and gentlemen, now that we are in September 2021, a year and a half after this royal decree was issued by the government, more than a year and a half after the state of alarm statement, with a large part of the vaccinated population, the question is: what are we going to do with all that now? We have a royal decree and now we have a bill that provides urgent measures, almost patchy, to be able to alleviate this situation. The question is, what are we going to do now? We have the recipe and it is not new because we have already claimed it in this House over the course of this year and a half and even before. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, the status of the artist. Three years ago, in September 2018, this House unanimously approved the proposals of the status report of the artist that reflect each and every one of the measures that this House believes are necessary to alleviate and to put an end to the precariousness of the cultural sector of the State. Minister Guirao, in the weeks or months of the adoption of the report, gave us little proof of what we thought the Government would do to implement those measures in state regulations. He stayed on it. From Minister Guirao no one, no one,no one has been interested in the ministry to approve the measures of the status of the artist so that they are a reality. This is for us the first recipe to project and to emerge stronger from this crisis and so that the cultural sector can regenerate and recover everything it has lost over the course of this year and a half. The second recipe, ladies and gentlemen, is also not new: the law of patronage. He entered this House, passed the acceptance through, and some groups are systematically blocking it using the House's Rules of Procedure, as is usual. Unlock the law of patronage. Yesterday, ladies and gentlemen, I was at the start of the Liceu season in Barcelona. The entire cultural sector is demanding a law of patronage. The 2002 law must be updated, ladies and gentlemen. The law is in the House, stop blocking that law and let us discuss it so that the cultural sector has more tools, more resources and more freedom to make artistic creation. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, as I have told you, we are going to vote in favour of this bill. We believe that it is short in some respects. That is why we bet on the status of the artist and the law of patronage, which we believe from a fiscal and labor point of view substantially improve what the government brought late and bad. But, despite that, ladies and gentlemen, we will support this royal decree and make ourselves available to you to assist in those matters that you consider appropriate, if it is for the good of the cultural sector. Thank you very much, President. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-23-CD210923.u46	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Margall Sastre has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-23-CD210923.u47	Thank you, President. Good morning, deputies and deputies. I'll be brief. Finally, the processing of the already famous Royal Decree-Law 17/2020 comes to an end, after almost a year standing in the limbo of the Congressional Bureau, where dozens of royal decrees rest, some of which even die of starvation because the government is not interested in its processing. We believe that the speech that came out of this Congress towards the Senate was powerful and gave rise to problems in the cultural sector, some of which were of urgent resolution; a cultural sector - we must remember it in every intervention - with very deep endemic structural problems; a sector that was very touched already before the crisis of the COVID-19 and which is currently suffering even more. The passage of Senate processing, if we have to be honest, was quite chaotic. Some amendments were introduced which are finally voted on here today. These incorporated amendments are also a step forward for the sector, and the Republican Group is going to vote in favour of them for the majority. But we must do self-criticism. We saw in the Senate the Socialist Party's manoeuvres to veto amendments, so that they did not vote, so that they did not debate, asking for reports from lawyers and imposing their majority on the Bureau. Ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE, you are taking pleasure in vetoing amendments that you are about to lose or that you do not like, as has already happened with the famous amendment to reduce VAT to the personal image sector. If you don't like to lose votes, sit down, chat and agree. We must also self-criticise the rest of the cultural spokesmen of the different parliamentary groups. There is a broad consensus in this Congress to carry out initiatives that reach the cultural sector - I would say that the consensus is cross-cutting - but we already have a mid-legislature and we have made very little progress. In May the interministerial was created - finally! - to seek a solution to create the status of the artist. We too are the heavy ones in the status of the artist. Well, it's a first step, small but first step. We have two years ahead of us in the legislature: let's sit down, let's talk, let's pact and let's legislate. The cultural sector cannot wait any longer; they would not forgive us for finishing the legislature and we were not able to make a big leap forward for culture, and more so with the existing consensus. So, let's get to work. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-23-CD210923.u48	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, I have the floor, Mrs García Puig.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-23-CD210923.u49	Good morning. Thank you very much, President. This draft changes the actual decree approving measures to support the cultural sector in the face of the economic impact of the COVID crisis and now comes with the Senate's amendments. Many of them improve the text and my group is going to support some of them; others we think are outside the scope of this bill and should be developed within the much broader framework of the artist's status, which I will talk about in my speech. Again, it seems to us a good time - it is always a good time, given the circumstances - to talk about precariousness in the cultural sector and discuss the next steps that we think we should take from this Parliament and that the government should take. In May last year a manifesto was published, promoted by the Catalan cooperative La Murga, in defense of a universal basic income, to which I joined as a deputy and also as a personal worker of the culture that I am. This manifesto said, among other things, and I quote: We believe that a universal and unconditional basic income would be the best cultural policy possible, since it would improve the lives of many people and, at the same time, radically improve the conditions of artistic and cultural practices. What this manifesto pointed out is that it is not enough to work on concrete cultural policies, but rather to be more ambitious and to work on social justice policies that cover society as a whole. Without that we will never have a culture that is diverse, a culture that is universally accessible to society as a whole. In addition, I pointed out directly - and I think it is particularly relevant in these pandemic times and in the face of this royal decree - the danger of the bureaucratization of culture. I quote again: We believe in universal basic income also as an alternative to the bureaucratic labyrinths of subsidies, of the conditions of the self-employed and of so many other subsidy mechanisms also out of culture, always discriminatory, always centralized, always controlling, always humiliating. In addition, it put something else on the table that I believe is very necessary to address in the cultural policies that we carry out since this Congress. We have talked a lot, and we have to keep talking, about the crystal ceiling very clear that exists in culture in terms of gender. The data is brutal and we have more and more data to show them to the skeptics. But we must also talk about how family origin affects cultural work, the fate of being born in one context or another. And I quote, again, the manifesto, which gives a fairly strong figure: we know that approximately 90% of interpreters do not become milleurists and that many do not even charge more than 3000 euros a year. This leads us to think of the multi-use to survive, but also, and above all, that there are people who can work as an artist because their family or heritage income allows it. We must put an end to that time when cultural workers and creators belonged to a few families, usually sharing a few privileged surnames and origins. This is not a democratic culture, this is not a diverse culture. Note, for example, what puts on the table a study prepared by the Research Unit of the Economics of Culture of the University of Valencia on the impact of COVID on the cultural sector. The study literally says that during the confinement there was a significant and widespread development of unpaid work in the cultural sphere. And I go to concrete data: six out of ten cultural workers received proposals for unpaid work during the confinement and more than a third of the respondents carried out free cultural initiatives during this period. It is clear who can afford to work without pay, and it is not precisely the ordinary people who have to pay a rent that is in the clouds or keep a family and live day by day, but, as we have said, people with privileged origins or with rents that allow them to work for free. For example - I go to a concrete fact - the performing arts. According to one study, only 8% of the country's actors earn more than EUR 12 000 a year. How do you live, how do you keep a family, with less than 12,000 euros a year? Well, 92% of our actors and actresses are forced and forced to do so. We're talking about a brutal precariousness. So, with all this desolating data on the table, it is more necessary than ever that in the Government and in this Parliament we work in two directions, which I sum up. On the one hand, comprehensive policies against precariousness, which include, for example, housing policies, which our group has been demanding for a very long time, but also urgent policies for the cultural sector. Here I join the consensus, that we hope that there will be in this House, regarding the urgency of the status of the artist. We received the good news about the interministerial status of the artist, which we knew this week, and the idea of having a calendar of some urgency to develop all the works. They will find the Minister and the Committee on Culture in our group all the willingness to do this work urgently. And I end with a quote that is for me one of the best authors we have in our country, Marta Sanz, and that counts, in his book Clavicle, his efforts to live from writing. I repeat, for me, no doubt, one of the best authors we have ever had. And I quote some exciting, direct, clear words that I think we should do all those who love culture and fight for a just society. Marta Sanz says: To see if we know, culture is not the garnish of the fillet, but the expression of our identity and the creators are not archangels living from the air, but workers. We ask not privileges, but to be able to live from our work. I claim my right to talk about money. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-23-CD210923.u50	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr López Maraver has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-23-CD210923.u51	President, thank you very much. Good morning. About twenty months ago I warned this government of the ruin that the Royal Decree 17/2020, which claimed to be aid to the cultural sector, was another mediocrity further in the characteristic line of this executive. This decree solved little or nothing the fundamental problem of our culture; a text that only committed to some and left out the vast majority of the professionals on foot that represent the social fabric of the cultural sector. Mr. Uribes had been sitting on the couch for three months and, at the last hour, appeared with this life-saver that was cracked and punctured. This decree was bread for today and hunger for this afternoon. The error was of such magnitude that, at three months, the improvisation executive intended to amend the plan with Decree 32/2020, which was more than the same. Both decrees were so heavy and the few aid they gave came so late and so bad that, because they did not leave alive, they did not leave alive even Minister Uribes, who is no longer and is not expected. [[Applauds]] They are now coming to pass Senate amendments to a bill that should have been promoted the day after it was passed and not a year and a half later. This demonstrates the moral squandering of this government, an expert in parliamentary filibusterism, which brings a rule that has very little to do with the initial decree of emergency aid. It is not the necessary text, it is not the text that cultural enterprises required and, most importantly, it has not arrived in time. Many professionals in the cultural sector are already in line, and not precisely in that of the entrance to the show. They've been sent to the queues of hunger. [[Applauds]] Under this rule, the Executive wants to water a plant that has been dead for a long time. The ideological sectarianism of this social communist government is of such a category that you have strangled any kind of art or cultural essence that smells of Spain, its performing arts, its traditions and its own roots. This Executive is so cynical that it has put a new Minister of Culture, and of Spanish culture, who does not even like Spain. [[Applauds]] Mr Iceta likes to take walks through the East and not appear by the Commission to explain what his project is going to be for the portfolio he holds today. Neither this bill nor its amendments nor the previous decrees resolved absolutely nothing to the protagonists of something that was defined by Lorca as the most cultured party in the world today, bullfighting. The greatest poetic and vital wealth that Spain has, the Tauromaquia, which, as I said and I will not be tired of repeating, is a cultural heritage rooted in the roots of Spain with ecological, productive and even legal vectors of our nation. It is culture in the highest and therefore more real sense of the word, which is that of involvement with the homeland itself. [[Applauds]] A historical and real involvement towards the arts of all kinds, an involvement in the rural and ecological world for many centuries, and an essential bastion in front of Spain that many call empty. This government does not care about Spain and less about its rural world, from which the roots of traditions and the essence of its identity and culture flow. Yesterday we saw how a government minister, Red Teresita, committed a real attack on the countryside and its inhabitants: she sentenced cattlemen and wolves to death. The inclusion of the wolf in the list of protected species and the prohibition of its hunting are due only to the ideological fanaticism of those who know little or nothing about the reality of the rural world. [[Applauds]] A unilateral decision that no one supports in the affected regions of the national territory and that even governments of the same political sign will appeal to the courts. Minister Ribera and her partner, López de Uralde, the greatest ignorant in the Spanish countryside, are making life impossible for farmers, farmers and other people living in our villages. This decision kills extensive livestock farming, which is fundamental to maintaining our countryside, our landscapes and our biodiversity. A while ago, in a meeting with cattlemen in the mountain cantabra, a man, with tears in his eyes, looked at me and said, "Tell those who now rule in the field to explain to me how cheese is made with wolf milk. Yes, wolf's milk, because neither I nor my parents nor any of my ancestors have succeeded. [[Applauds]] The wolf kills our cattle and takes the bread out of our hands. What is cared for remains, what is abandoned dies. The wolf as a kinegetic species generated an interest that forced it to take care of, generated resources in the rural world and enjoyed good health, as we are seeing with the increase of its populations. If they now ban that interest, no one will take care of it. VOX's commitment to the field is firm, when it depends on us - which will be sooner than later - the wolf will again have kinegetic control throughout the national territory, with a wolf management plan that allows the survival of the species and the rural world. [[Applauds]] It is not a ballad that I notice in such nonsense when we are talking about culture, which ends with peoples and the countryside ends with culture. Once I heard: for an intelligent man, the mountain is like a silent being who wrote his diary, records everything, records everything, any disturbance of his loneliness leaves a mark, any step, any incident is written; the city, on the other hand, erases everything, is like writing in the water. But this law and its amendments have not only left behind the noble art of bullfighting, nor have they agreed on the oldest spectacle in the world, the circus, which you have been starved to death since March 2020. [[Applauds]] The circus sector is very vulnerable, most of its members are autonomous, and in this law no one has agreed to them. To the agony of the cultural sector, to which this government has condemned, the VOX Parliamentary Group will only be able to support the little you have accepted of the cultural essence of Spain: the development of a national plan for the protection of flamenco tablets. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, really help those who really need help and do not water them with a alms that comes late, bad and never. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-23-CD210923.u52	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Cruz-Guzmán García has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-23-CD210923.u53	'These are my principles and, if you don't like them, I have others.' The famous phrase attributed to Groucho Marx - although it could have come out perfectly of this government - and reissued by the magisterial Nieto serves perfectly to summarize what has been the process of this law of aid to the cultural sector, which culminates here today in Congress, after almost a year and a half of processing. And it's that, if it wasn't for the tragic nature of the situation, for the queues of hunger that many cultural professionals keep, for the asphyxiation of companies or the closures of cultural enterprises, the story we're going to tell here would be pure comedy. This process has been extended in excess, postponement after postponement, and has taken a deorbited speed in the Senate. [[The lady]] Not even twenty-four hours had the senators to decide to vote on more than eighty amendments tabled. Also supersonic the return to Congress, which has hindered and prevented the good work of the deputies and lawyers of this House for the drafting of this important law. These are our amendments and, if the Government does not like them, the Executive interferes arbitrarily and partisanly to veto them, impoverishing our democratic system and thereby the result of this important and longing rule. Thus, the Government vetoed in Congress thirty-two amendments, seven to our group, including the amendment that gave the Canary Islands the necessary fiscal improvement needed to attract film and audiovisual investments. [[Applauds]] The Government has returned with its apisonator to the Senate and has eliminated seventeen other amendments. To the bulerías, to our proposal to consider the tenth anniversary of flamenco as an Intangible Heritage of Humanity an event of special interest has been applied a veto and eliminated in less than twenty-four hours. It's all very rigorous. These are the government's vetoes, but if they don't like them, they also have others. Having prevented my group from discussing the Canary Islands' amendment in the Lower House, it is the Socialist Group itself that is presenting it in the Upper House, but this time it is understood that there is no need to censor the debate. And we are glad; we are glad because this government only makes the right point when it rectifys, so we are proud to have been part of this change of opinion by Montero aIceta, the penalty is that they rectify very few times. [[applause]] Speaking of rectifications, from here we congratulate another professional of the Tauromaquia, the Aragonese bullfighter Imanol Sánchez, to whom the Social Court has given the reason in front of SEPE. How many trials and how much money the government would have saved, and therefore the Spanish, if they had listened to us also at this point in the law! [[Applauds]] The Canary Islands are experiencing an exhilarating moment, which we share and follow with the utmost attention all Spaniards. It is time to give them our full support, and that is why we will vote in favour of all the measures contained in this law that will cover the outermost region. Mr. Iceta has a golden opportunity to show that he has come to his portfolio to change his Government's cultural policies. Demonstrate your capacity for consensus, don't leave everything for the Catalan table, meet also with art, dance, music, cinema or theatre, also with the bullfighting. It restores the image of the dialogue that fosters culture, stripping itself of ideologies and bathing it with freedom. [[Applauds]] Our group has obtained the support of the Upper House to ratify what the senators have already expressed unanimously: to consider culture as an essential good and also, in particular, to give the same consideration to the book for its intrinsic relationship with the information and training of all Spaniards, universal rights contained in our Constitution. It is a well-deserved recognition of Spanish culture, which represents the union of all Spaniards throughout history, a culture that identifies us as a people, as a collectivity, a culture that is one of the economic engines of this country and shows us internationally as a brand of Spain. At one of the worst times in history for this sector, this recognition was deserved, but in addition to this measure, seventeen of our half a hundred amendments have been passed in the Senate, so today we ask all groups for their support. A few days ago, Minister Iceta was sincere in an act telling us that he did not understand how nothing had been done in the status of the artist during these years. Three years ago, eighty-five measures emerged from this Congress that were unanimously adopted; yesterday he announced with a tweet that in one year all measures would be implemented. Do not lie to us, Minister, and do not lie to the cultural sector. Moreover, in this House, your group said that it would do so within months. That is why we suggest that you do not risk the deadline and that you support the amendments that have been tabled by the various political groups in this respect. We also propose, now that talent finally returns to the stage, a campaign of the ministry that promotes among the Spaniards the healthy habit of consuming culture. We plan to increase investment in property rehabilitation because construction, also in this area, must be an economic lever, as well as measures, such as the incorporation of credit policies, which is the tool used by the sector, or a contingency fund for the suspension of shootings byCOVID or, as the Government has promised in Brussels, a line of help in digitisation and innovation for companies, the implementation of the voucher or aid to the publishing sector, the development of linked certificates between ministries so that companies do not go crazy or direct support for new creators and, finally, lines of aid for museums, which have seen their visits come down but also their revenues, are several of the proposals we made to the groups. I leave for the end our last amendment, but not the least important one, which collects specific measures for unique spaces in the world, masterfully described by Lorca or Alberti, and which set up a continuous training network for flamenco artists where they can share their work and their creation, spaces with leprechauns. The tablaos are spaces with a powerful tourist attraction; they are visited every year by more than four million visitors. The cry for help from THE Tablets! It has filled the pages of the national press and has reached the pages of the New York Times, and it is our duty today to give them a voice here in this Chamber. Some, such as Madrid's oldest tablao, Villa Rosa, will never sound again at a flamenco rhythm, and we cannot allow anyone else to close. Let us make this aid law a useful tool, because the measures developed by the Government have been totally inadequate. I only have to ask the rest of the groups to be generous, not with my group but with the cultural sector, in order to be able to write an end to this law as it deserves, as they make life for us, a happy end. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-23-CD210923.u54	Thank you very much, Mrs. Cruz-Guzman. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. García. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Lamuà Español has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-23-CD210923.u55	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I didn't want to start without asking them something. Ladies and gentlemen of VOX, every time some of you come up to this rostrum and refer in some criticism to Minister Iceta, I have some doubt as to whether your criticism is about how you see culture or sport or what you intend to legislate on it, or about other things, and I am concerned. [[Rumors.-A honourable Member: Which ones?]] And, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-23-CD210923.u56	Quiet, please. Mr. Sánchez del Real, silence.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-23-CD210923.u57	...I think we've found some good space for dialogue here in Congress these days. See how it's not so harmful? Sometimes it works. I will also tell you, with all due respect and affection, assuming the criticisms that can make us, that if so badly we socialists do not know how we continue to win them elections. Maybe people see something else. [[Applauds]] This has been a complex, difficult process, all fellow speakers have said. We've all suffered in the first person as legislators. The pandemic also didn't make it any easier, you know that. The work in this House and in our committees over the past year has been a little more difficult than usual. To face needs, to generate emergency measures as we needed and as was the objective of this royal decree, he joined in joining the opportunity to deal in some way with some of the historical past deficits of which our cultural sectors were suffering. A spate was opened and we all took advantage of it, including the Government; we all took advantage of it, it has been taken advantage of by parliamentary groups. And throughout the process of some things we have been able to succeed, we have been able to succeed, and in some others - I said it already in the session in which we sent the process to the Senate - we have not been able. In politics and parliamentarianism, there is always something in the tinker. We're already in the Constitution, figure it out. If not, it would make little sense already everything we do here. That doesn't mean that we let go of the effort, that doesn't mean that we don't have to. It means that at some point I believe that we have moved that we could solve from a very bad shot of which the culture sector in Spain is suffering in this process, and that has not been realistic nor has it responded to the function or objective of this bill. Even so, today we have many and different agreements to vote on amendments in this procedure, which I believe, given the complexity, given the peril that all my colleagues have done, more difficult than other times, and I think we have done it, and we have done it reasonably well, so once again the Committee on Culture, the spokespersons of culture, we have done something that sometimes costs us all in other areas, which is to sit down, talk, find points of agreement, to know the points of dissent on which we cannot agree, to assume and to continue doing so as well as we can: agreements between different, dialogue between different, policy between different. Yesterday my colleague, Mr Paco Aranda, made it very clear: we are politicians, we seek solutions through dialogue. I think that, as well as good, in the proceedings in this House, in Congress, we have done reasonably well; always improveable, and that has to be the objective, but reasonably well. We have all referred to the status of the artist, and it is true that, closing this chapter today, it is processing, our gaze is again centrally fixed on the status of the artist. We have confirmed for a few months in the non-law proposal of the PNV the commitment of this House to process, as soon as possible, the status of the artist. Some of you have referred to the inaction of the ministry. I would like to recall that since Minister Iceta's access, not only has the interministerial committee been set up, but I firmly believe that we will have a timetable for implementing each and every measure as soon as possible. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, in the matter of the status of the artist, work will come to us, and I think it will be a work that we owe to the world of culture and to our predecessors in the Committee on Culture of Congress, who have left this task to all of us. Today, which completes this work and that we look, as I said, at the status of the artist, we should think about the months to come if we have to add, if we have to improve, if we have to put some look that today requires and that when we made the proposals we did not see or was not on the front line, because also in culture - I thought - there are important issues of inequality between men and women, and obviously we must also give that battle in the cultural world. This week we've had witch hunters in this Chamber. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of this House, I believe that the entire Committee on Culture and Culture can tell you that you are still courageous and firm in your demands for equality and for the protection of women's rights in Spain...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-23-CD210923.u58	Mr. Lamuà, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-23-CD210923.u59	... because you know, ladies and gentlemen - I finish, President - that that is a pride, I think for all or almost all the benches of this House. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-23-CD210923.u60	Thank you very much, Mr Lamuà. [[A cleaning service worker disinfects the speaker's rostrum]] - DRAFT LAW AMENDING LAW 16/1987 OF 30 JULY ON THE ORDER OF TERRITORIAL TRANSPORT IN THE FIELD OF INFRINGEMENTS RELATING TO DRIVING VEHICLES AND TO COMBATING MOROSITY IN THE FIELD OF CARRIAGE TRANSPORT, AS STANDARDS TO IMPROVE MANAGEMENT IN THE FIELD OF TRANSPORT AND INFRASTRUCTURES. [[File number 121/000047]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-23-CD210923.u61	Ladies and gentlemen, we move on to the next item on the agenda. Amendments adopted by the Senate to the bill amending Act No. 16/1987 of 30 July 1987 on the management of land transport in respect of infringements relating to the leasing of vehicles with a driver and to combat delays in the transport of goods by road, as well as rules for improving management in the field of transport and infrastructure. I have the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Quevedo Iturbe.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-23-CD210923.u62	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning again to all of you. New Canarias wants to intervene on this point to highlight an amendment from the Senate and try to draw the attention of the different groups to try to make this amendment prosper. We are referring to the amendment to the new seventh final provision, which refers to the modification of leases or divestitures of business premises at airports. We all have the general concept that airport business premises are expensive premises, which are usually in the hands of powerful business conglomerates, etc. That is an opinion that we all generally have and that some of us have been disassembled little by the fact that we have analysed what we are really talking about. It is important to make it clear that more than 70% of these concessionaires at airports are small and medium-sized enterprises. It is also important to make it clear that the impact of the pandemic, which has been very severe in all sectors, on airport activity does not need to be explained to your ladies and gentlemen, but I will tell you that, with the data from AENA, the statistics for June 2021 reflect a passenger drop of 78.8% compared to 2019. It is true - I spoke to some Member before - that 2019 was an exceptional year, yes, but it is also true that what happened afterwards is also completely exceptional. So the question now is how the parties should act to ensure that the aid that has been provided to a very large number of sectors also reaches the concessionaires of the airports, not in a graceful manner, but as a result of the fact that if there is a sudden fall, and in some cases almost one hundred per cent in the previous months during the pandemic, this will have to have an impact on the rent that is charged to these concessionaires. This sounds like pure logic, doesn't it? It is not the first time that this Member and I believe that many of you have been criticized for the behaviour of certain directors of this company, AENA, where there is a kind of sufficiency, a kind of pasticism about what is proposed to you from any sector, a kind of feeling of superiority, seems to be, about the rest of the humans who are moving where it has been impossible to negotiate on this matter in order to try to establish elementary bases that allow people to survive. So, if you look at the proposal that AENA has made at the moment, from the first hard phase in which airport activity was almost zero, it is a 50% reduction in rental prices. Let us see, if it is recognised that the fall in airport activity, i.e. the number of airport users, was in June 2021 - i.e. yesterday - 78,8%, why is the rent reduction 50%, if you can tell? What's more, why is it intended to be 100 percent again from September? Not only have we talked about this, Esquerra Republicana de Catalunya, in the Finance Committee, put forward a non-legislative proposal which was unanimously adopted in which they point out that it is necessary to seek transitional solutions to alleviate the effects of the pandemic in the sector until the normality of air traffic and airport activity recovers. I must say that sources of the AENA itself say that complete activity, absolute normalization, will not occur until 2025. That's probably something more pessimistic than the account, but that's the data they have. And what has been the consequence of this unanimously adopted GNP? Well, none. At the moment, we have seen that AENA has negotiated with the weakest, because they are the ones who do not have the capacity to defend themselves from these Leonian conditions. The strongest have, of course, not wanted to negotiate because they are better able to defend themselves and, therefore, the beaten ones are the weakest. This is an issue that the amendment I advocate seeks to resolve, in clear agreement with the majority of the sector; this is a first point, the exclusion of guaranteed minimum income during the period of the initial state of alarm, which runs from 14 March 2020 to June 2020, in which the activity was completely paralysed; therefore, there is no guaranteed minimum income. This seems to be clear. As from this date, reduce proportionally the guaranteed minimum income in respect of the volume of passengers at each airport until the recovery of the 2019 passenger level. It is true that this could have been discussed, but the amendment comes this way because no one has done anything about it; if not, it would have arrived otherwise. Therefore, this is what we have right now to defend a sector that is in the vast majority, and of course the weakest, directly to bankruptcy if something is not done about it. This bad custom on the part of certain AENA managers that it brings to the fresh what is proposed to them because it is a kind of super company super excluded from all kinds of controls must end. We therefore call for support for this amendment because we believe that it is fair and necessary for the survival of the sector. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-23-CD210923.u63	Thank you very much, Mr Quevedo. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Barandiaran Benito has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-23-CD210923.u64	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, Madam President. Go ahead that our group will vote in favour of the validation of the text in the terms that have emerged from the amendment adopted by the Senate and go ahead also that there is a basis for that decision, which is fairness. We do not think it appropriate to demand from tenant users a facility of general interest, such as airports, an attitude different from that which we are demanding as a public authority and from the State to private individuals, precisely also in relation to the leases of business premises. Because from this House we have asked the tenants of business premises to adapt their contracts to the circumstances of the COVID, and we have done so by understanding, as the Supreme Court points out, although it is a reduced case law, that the COVID can be openly considered as a phenomenon of the economy capable of generating a serious disorder or change of circumstances, and it is for this reason that equal reflection must be done by each and every one who integrates into that generic concept of public authorities, where AENA is also found, apart from its consideration as a commercial society, because it does not cease to belong to the public sector given its public majority in ownership and also because it is precisely managing airport services qualified as of general interest. By the way, I'm doing an air reflection that's not directly related to this, or yes. It is curious that the management of airport services can be privatized in the sense that part of their participation can be sold, but the possibility of being transferred to the autonomous communities that we have shown interest in being able to accept it is denied. On the other hand, we do not like the solution set out in the amendment either. So far we have voted differently on two grounds. One, the solution to this conflict should have come by agreement. That is the basis of the question or divergence, because we understand that the legal-private conflict is even judicialized. We have therefore waited until now to give an opportunity to the negotiation, to the solution which, unfortunately, has not been achieved. Because this debate, after all, arises between two eminently legal questions: the pacta sunt servanda, on the one hand, and the rebus sic stantibus, on the other. That is, whether there is a need to fulfil the obligations set out in the contract or whether the conditions have changed. To this we must add something else in critical terms, and that is that the amendment, in our view - even if we are going to accept it, we must be critical with it - we think it needs too much. We believe that a generic mandate would have sufficed for the operators, AENA and individuals, so that they could put this agreement into practice in another area, but the singularisation and implementation of the solution will, in our view, pose a problem, even from the perspective of the general interest. Let us not forget article 103 of the Constitution, which points out the need to aim for any action in the general interest. Furthermore, we have another objection to the legislative formula or technique. The Constitutional Court states in one of its rulings that the object of the law, of the legislative technique, is to detect problems, to formulate guidelines for their solution and thus to serve legal certainty or doctrine, that the legislative technique constitutes the art of clear and effective legislation. But it happens that we have repeated that when it comes to offering opportunistic solutions, and even concrete ones, and even for a particular case, and not in a generic, abstract way and apart from the need for integration into legislation, into legislation in general, it can cause confusion and, therefore, it can cause certain problems in relation to Article 9.3 of the Constitution in the area of legal certainty. However, the decision to support this amendment is given, above all, by the attitude of AENA. We believe that AENA has not been able to reach an agreement with the tenants and therefore it believes that it is a management that, in our way, is deficient, both from the point of view of defending the general interests that were also affected by that situation in which those tenants of those airport premises were placed, and also from the point of view of the commercial interest, which it also has to defend because the State owns 51% of AENA. We understand that the lack of agreement would cut the principles that inspire the law of the State aimed at alleviating the effects of COVID, and that is why the action of AENA has not been consistent with this purpose and with this legislative mandate. But we also believe that, without prejudice to the fact that the root of the problem, in our view, is possibly the pressure of that 49% of the particular shareholder, it has not had an intelligent perspective on its management. In fact, we are seeing that, in the long run, that management has proved to be inconvenient. Therefore, I repeat, it is not acceptable to place the tenants of premises of an airport service, classified as of general interest, in a condition different from that of the rest of the tenants of private business premises, at least in view of the consequences envisaged on the occasion of the COVID by the rest of the State legislation. We will vote in favour, critically, but we will vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-23-CD210923.u65	Thank you very much, Mr Barandiaran. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr López-Bas Valero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-23-CD210923.u66	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Today, for consideration, there is an amendment proposed by the Senate to add to the Land Transport Management Act. This is an amendment that the High Chamber sends to us so that the conflict that is taking place, as has been said, between the public company AENA, which manages the Spanish airports, and the different owners of the premises that provide services at those airports, basically, for trade and restoration. To get to know this case, first, it would have to be put in context. We agree that the vast majority of our country's shops and restaurants have suffered and continue to suffer the consequences of health measures taken to curb the coronavirus; measures that have also affected the mobility of citizens between countries. This has led to a marked decline in passenger traffic at Spanish airports and, from there, the Spanish airports' shops and restaurants have suffered double these measures. The volume of customers has been minimal, but they were also subject to the same restrictions as the rest of the country's restaurants and shops. To this is added that AENA, as the owner of these premises, is the one that sets the price of this rental, but also many other conditions, such as staff, hours, certain qualities in products, decoration of the premises, etc. There is really no autonomy on the part of the holders of these trades from AENA when it comes to agreeing on the terms of their contractual relationship. In view of this situation of superiority, we understand that AENA has not changed the terms of its contracts with the companies that rent its premises despite the fact that this House, for example, has made efforts, as has been said, through the approval of a GNP, in which this type of negotiation was already being promoted, or even by validating rules by decree, precisely in order to try to alleviate the situation of rental of houses or business premises in other areas. As far as we know, AENA has only agreed to talk to a number of companies operating on its premises that account for approximately 15% of the total turnover; in fact, when this amendment came out of the Senate, AENA had refused to sit with those who have most of that turnover. This amendment by the Senate therefore reflects an undeniable reality, which we cannot look elsewhere. We cannot continue to allow a public undertaking not to give facilities to pay the rent of its premises to those who signed a contract whose fundamental conditions are developing under a regime of absolute abnormality, because that is the fundamental fact at the moment: the market is not in a stable situation of normality, not at least in the same normality as it was when the fees to be paid to AENA were calculated. While our airports were closed to call and chant for three months last year, shops and restaurants billed zero euros, and in the following months they have suffered falls of up to 90% of their income, precisely due to the absence of passengers. However, AENA has not offered a reasonable opportunity to negotiate these fees at pre-pandemic levels; fees that are divided into two: a fixed part, a guaranteed minimum income, and a variable part, precisely, that depends on the number of passengers at airports, a data that comes from the company AENA itself. As you will see, ladies and gentlemen, this situation does not seem normal or fair to us, precisely because in law there is what is called - it has been mentioned here - rebus sic stantibus clause, already applied by judges and courts in similar cases; a principle whereby it is understood that the obligations defined in a contract are due to the circumstances that occur at the time of its conclusion, and if those circumstances are substantially and severely changed by an unpredictable fact, as is the case, those obligations must also be changed for the parties. And why? It is simple: because the right does not cover the unjust enrichment of one part of a contract against the other when there is a great imbalance in the benefits initially agreed. We know that AENA justifies this situation by claiming that these are private contracts, in which no one should be able to intervene. However, we are not told - although it will also be commented today - that there is a judgment of the Supreme Court last March of this same year which states that these contracts cannot be classified as leases, but as concessions of services between a public or semi-public operator, such as AENA, and private individuals, because it is AENA that imposes its conditions and, basically, because there is no real competition leasing activity. It is obvious, because AENA is the only Spanish company empowered to manage premises at Spanish airports and, therefore, there is an obvious monopoly situation. Moreover, the fundamental thing about these concessions is that there is a translation of the operational risk to the person who exploits the site and the activity that takes place in it. But this operational risk, as has also been pointed out in the case law, must be taken into account in situations of ordinary provision of services; ordinary, that is, those who operate these premises must assume a loss or a decrease in income if there is nothing extraordinary that has changed the conditions of the market, which were the basis for setting the price of the consideration. Are we in a normal market situation? Obviously not. Our country and the rest of the world are suffering a health pandemic, which in the case of Spain has cost the lives of over 100,000 compatriots, which has caused our economy to fall to levels we would never have imagined and the rest of the consequences are known to all. AENA seems alien to this situation and, therefore, from the Courts we must revert as soon as possible so that extraordinary measures can be taken in the face of an extraordinary situation, fundamentally, and so we care about it, in order to avoid the risk that between 12,000 and 15,000 Spaniards will go to the end of unemployment because the concessionary companies will have to be forced to close down. It is not understood that AENA refuses to take this measure when, for example, ADIF has taken similar measures at our country's train stations. They are different models, but similar in this situation. We must protect the weakest part of the contract with a fundamental legal figure, which is also required precisely in the administrative concessions of this kind, which we believe we are facing. We believe that this is a legal and fair measure, which AENA should have sat down and negotiated with the parties concerned, which, as has been said, we should have reached this point with an agreed solution and not have to impose by means of a legal amendment. In any case, in the Citizens Group - which is quite clear - we understand that a public enterprise is precisely to cover those deficiencies or market failures that can occur. There is no form of animating the AENA public enterprise on the part of our parliamentary group, but there is the need to support those who are demanding a solution in an unfair situation. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-23-CD210923.u67	Thank you very much, Mr López-Bas. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Bel Accensi has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-23-CD210923.u68	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, we have received from the Senate a bill that we have already seen in this House amending the Land Transport Management Act, essentially in different areas, in the area of the rental of vehicles with a driver, at the same time - and then I will make a reference - in relation to business lateness and other issues in the field of transport management and its infrastructure. There is an amendment that was incorporated into the Senate by Senator Fernando Clavijo, and I would like to congratulate you on the initiative from here. We had similar initiatives in other parliamentary groups. And beyond the goodness or strict legal certainty of the amendment itself, it is clear that from the political point of view and from the point of view of business justice it is absolutely right and therefore we are going to vote in favour. Madam President, I can be talking all morning if you don't put the clock on me. You know I have a certain temptation to run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-23-CD210923.u69	Don't worry, it's already activated.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-23-CD210923.u70	Thank you. I'm trying not to burden you, President. We are going to vote in favour of this amendment. I told them that this is a fair amendment because the position of AENA in this conflict is that it cannot be understood. A few days ago he was talking to a CEO of one of the companies concerned, an important multinational company that is currently operating in twelve different states. And he said to me: Ferran, it is only in one of us that we have had a problem and we have not been able to reach an agreement; in the remaining eleven states, in many airports, we have been able to reach an agreement. And that, of course, has harmed smaller operators, small and medium-sized enterprises, which do not have the capacity to argue with AENA. Obviously, we would have liked an agreement, but not now with the pressure of an amendment, but months ago, when the problem arose. If it has not been possible, it is not for the Government - which has a share of responsibility - but for ENA. Today I must remind you of some data in case anyone thinks that this is going to directly affect the AENA results account; that yes, but that it should be allowed. AENA was partially privatized on 11 February 2015; the exit price of the privatisation shares: 58 euros; the following day the shares were already quoted at 70 euros; during 2017 the average contribution price was set at 150 and since the pandemic has not fallen from 97 euros, when it was privatized to 58 euros. I therefore believe that AENA's performance account should be able to bear this situation, because, if not, it is going to take a lot of companies ahead. Large, multinational companies are affected, and small and medium-sized enterprises are affected. So, let's vote in favour. Second question I want to remind you of. I read what we are approving today, what establishes the explanatory statement. On the other hand, the fight against lateness... is one of the political priorities of the European Union, which has resulted in the adoption of directives on the subject.' It goes on to say: 'However, the Spanish legislation referred to has proved to be insufficient to effectively discourage corporate lateness, with the average payment period in commercial transactions of ninety days, well above that recorded in other European countries and the maximum set in the Community legislation laid down. Morosity has a negative impact on the liquidity of companies, complicating their financial management and affecting their competitiveness and profitability when they are forced to apply for external financing. The risk of this negative influence increases dramatically in periods of economic crisis..., by making financing more difficult, and particularly affects medium- and small-sized enterprises as it results in a serious destabilisation of the financial structure. ... [[SMEs]] For all the above, it is considered necessary to create... a new type of infringer for non-compliance with the maximum legal period of payment of sixty days.' We approve this today and we will approve it for the road freight transport sector, but it is extrapolable to the rest of the companies. I say this because yesterday - surely your ladies and gentlemen do not remember - we celebrated a beautiful anniversary. The anniversary is that a year ago in this House we approved the proposed law that we presented - which I myself presented - to amend Law 3/2004, on measures to combat late payment. It was the establishment of the sanctioning regime. Well, it has been accepted, the tabling of amendments has begun - it has been extended up to thirty-six times the tabling of amendments - and it does not seem to us that the current crisis situation is paralysing, it is hindering the processing of a real sanctioning regime. Because what the law establishes creates and grows is not a sanctioning regime, it is not going to be the solution to corporate lateness. I therefore ask the President, I ask the Bureau, but I ask the parliamentary groups that week after week they are hindering the processing of this bill. If there are aspects you don't agree with, we'll negotiate them, but do you know what's going on? When allowed to proceed: votes in favour, 344; votes against, none; abstention, 1. If there is a majority to be admitted to the procedure, it cannot be that there is a majority that later blocks it weekly. That is why I am asking you not only to vote in favour of the amendment we are dealing with today, but I am asking you to unblock the procedure of the sanctions regime for late business. Most small and medium-sized enterprises in Catalonia and the Spanish state as a whole will thank us. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-23-CD210923.u71	Thank you very much, Mr. Bel. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Capdevila i Esteve has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-23-CD210923.u72	Good morning, President, good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Today we should not be here discussing, arguing and voting on this amendment, which is wasting, albeit little, time for the implementation of important transport measures. For twenty months now, AENA, like other railway infrastructure managers in Spain, many other airport operators from all over the world, should have sat down and negotiated a reasonable and balanced solution with the concessionaires of the commercial and restoration spaces of their airports, particularly and most notably as a participating company, mostly by public shareholders. It is not in vain that the State decides, even, who directs it. In particular, AENA should not have olympically ignored the voice of popular sovereignty, which in the end is its main shareholder, and which in the form of a non-legislative proposal voted unanimously urging it literally: 'taking into account the most recent jurisprudence of the Supreme Court and the judicial decisions issued in recent months on the issue, to negotiate and reach balanced agreements on the conditions for the concessions of premises for commercial and hospitality activities in its airport network'. From 1 June and unanimously. Since June 1, radio switched off by AENA. The conditions which the PSOE had proposed until a while ago, we understand that authorized by AENA, do not by far satisfy the literal of the PNL, I repeat, approved unanimously by the groups representing the popular will, which is, I insist, AENA's majority shareholder. In particular, it harms SMEs that, less armed with financial muscle and powerful legal teams under threat of collateral execution, have been forced to submit to draconian conditions. As Beethoven said, the only symbol of superiority I recognize is goodness. For this reason, I recognize Mr Ramos, who, with an admirable, extremist, worthy of the best cause, has tried to put together a basket until the last minute, but with expired limbs. As Senator Bailac said well in the Upper House, in Catalonia the Generalitat passed a decree law to lower the rent of commercial premises of the shops that had to close by COVID, urging private owners. How are we not going to be able to demand the same from AENA? In those we are, ladies and gentlemen, and therefore also in line with the repeated authorship of the GNP, we will vote yes to the amendment. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-23-CD210923.u73	Thank you very much, Mr. Capdevila. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Guijarro García has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-23-CD210923.u74	President, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon now. On the point that calls us, the only amendment that comes from the Senate to this bill, as has already been said, is the famous AENA amendment. The first thing I would like to say in this regard is that this should not have come this far. It is a message that I believe Mr Barandiaran has already launched, as well as Mr Capdevila and some other rapporteurs, because this really had to be solved by an agreement. We share the philosophy of the amendment that, if a premises are rented and the economic activity of the contract cannot be carried out or drastically reduced, mechanisms for protecting economic activity and employment must be articulated. The criterion is very simple: if I cannot carry out the activity or the activity is substantially impaired, the object of the contract cannot be fulfilled and therefore the entire payment of the rent should not be required. I think there is a basic unanimity on this point. Moreover, in our group we believe that there should be an equivalence between the reduction of rent and that of economic activity; precisely when it is the State that acts as rent capital it must have exemplary conduct in defense of the productive economy and employment. Our group is therefore going to abstain from this amendment, not because we are against the content, which as an announcement seems to us to be relevant, but because, as I say, we would have preferred this to have been the result of an agreement. In any case, it is clear that this House today sends a powerful message to Mr Lucena, President of AENA, and the message is: you have to negotiate. In commercial codes there is one thing that is called major cause and you have to negotiate, Mr. Lucena. Above all today, ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to highlight the adoption at the end of a sanctioning regime for the VTC sector. Although it has already been resolved at the presentation stage and is not the subject of the amendment we are discussing today, this procedure is the final step towards implementing this regime. As you know, our political space has been fighting for years with fellow taxi workers to ensure that the working conditions of a sector affecting some 100,000 workers in this country, some 100,000 families, are not lost. As you know, since the entry of various multinationals in the VTC sector, the conditions of these workers have been threatened and precarious, as are the working conditions of people working in VTC. In many cases, as you know, they are falsely autonomous. The struggle of the taxi sector to ensure compliance with the 1/30 ratio has had powerful enemies, often media that have wanted to criminalize the struggle of a sector that fought for their rights and also for the rights of all workers. Because, ladies and gentlemen, when we talk about the tuberization of the economy, we are referring exactly to this. The companions of the taxi have fought for their rights, yes, but they have fought, above all and also, for the rights of all workers. In that regard, we would like to thank you for that struggle, that example, and we would like to congratulate you on the fact that, at last today, we can celebrate the achievement of one of the historic demands as was this sanctioning regime. As you know, already in 2013 the famous 1/30 ratio was established, which did not rise to the rank of law until Mr Rajoy did so in the famous Royal Decree-Law 3/2018, a royal decree law that, as I say, raised to the rank of law this ratio, but did not finish solving the problem that already existed. It had to be the new government, with Minister Ábalos, that with the Royal Decree-Law 13/2018 established a transitional period of four years for the creation of this ratio, which also enables the autonomous communities for their regulation and that establishes the adequacy of this sanctioning regime that we are discussing today. The regime contains progress in definitions and sanctions which we believe are substantial and which I would like to highlight. First of all, it establishes a clear definition of pre-contracting, one of the most harmful elements that the sector has been suffering in recent times and that we trust that this initiative will be eradicated. It also establishes sanctions for wandering, sanctions for operating outside the autonomous communities. I mean, all this regime is doing is enforcing what the law already said. To conclude - and once underlined the goodness of a sanctioning regime that, as I say, makes possible the effective enforcement of a law - I do not want to stop extending this logic to all the commercial relations that govern in Spain, and in this sense it took advantage, as Mr Ferran Bel has done, to anchor the shady to this sardine. Why do I say it's sardine? We believe that it is urgent to move forward with a sanctioning regime that will allow us to reduce the average payment periods in our economy, which are well above the European average. There is a legislative initiative in this House - as Mr Bel has well announced - and from our parliamentary group we think it might be useful to move forward on this. In that regard, we encourage the groups and also the Government to release this very important measure as soon as possible. As you know, the delay in these periods has mainly harmed SMEs, which have de facto and unintentionally become financiers of large companies through the systematic delay of these payments, illegal delays and delays that have certainly been exacerbated in these months of pandemic. If it was already a problem in March 2019, imagine later. But it is only possible to correct - as the bill we are discussing here today shows - this kind of conduct through a sanctioning regime. So let's apply this story. I conclude by saying that, seeing that this course is good - that of establishing a sanctioning regime - we extend their kindnesses. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-23-CD210923.u75	Thank you very much, Mr. Guijarro. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs De las Heras Fernández has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-23-CD210923.u76	Thank you very much, Madam President. The original draft law was intended to amend the Land Transport Management Act in a two-fold manner: on the one hand, to establish infringements relating to the rental of vehicles with a driver and, on the other, to the delay in the carriage of goods by road. Neither does the former - which is left at the expense of a regulatory development that will depend solely and exclusively on the Executive - nor does the latter. For its part, the amendment that is being debated today modifies the contracts for the lease or assignment of business premises at the airports managed by AENA, so I could not start my intervention without being surprised by the amendment presented by the Canary Coalition in the Senate, since it lacks any relation to the object of the amended rule. However, once we have the text on the table, although technically it is not the right thing to do, we must analyse what is at stake, and this is fourteen thousand jobs. [[Applauds]] And it turns out that VOX already demanded on 1 June what is being debated in this amendment today. Mr de Esquerra, it was not his GNP that established it, but an amendment that introduced VOX to his GNP in the Finance Committee, since his non-legislative proposal sought to exclude precisely the leases of AENA. We have already requested in our amendment that it be reinstated... [[Rumors]] Here's the text. You are saying no, but I have the text of your non-law proposal and our amendment. [[Show a document]] As I say, we are calling for the economic balance to be restored to AENA's lease contracts in the face of the halting of traffic, and it was approved, as you quite rightly said, unanimously. However, we do not know what the PSOE will do or what its voters would say if they changed so suddenly, as they have opposed the Senate. Do not worry, that what I am telling you do not condition your vote, that your voters are, unfortunately, accustomed to being deceived. [[Applauds]] We are not surprised that the PSOE will vote against in the Senate. It seems he only wants to limit rents when the lessor is a private individual, because if it is a public enterprise, let him squeeze and express the pocket of the shops, just like he has done with all the workers for a year and a half preventing them from working. Why not citizens and public enterprises? Yes, ladies and gentlemen, who has prevented work, who has established a ban on movement, who has generated this disastrous economic situation and the absolute bankruptcy of businesses and SMEs, has been this government with its mistaken and unconstitutional measures. Let us remember that thanks to the unconstitutionality of VOX, thanks to the fifty-two in solitary, the unconstitutionality of the state of alarm has been declared. But who believes this government to suppress fundamental rights and abduct democracy? [[Applauds]] As our spokesman says, it's not that VOX is alone, it's that only VOX remains. The VOX Parliamentary Group has been with the same speech for a year and a half, because we don't change our minds as the sun sets. Pay those who have not left work. As always, the PSOE washes its hands. As I said in my previous speech, he has not only lost the E of Spanish but also lost the O of worker. It's a good thing they weren't leaving anyone behind. But let's emphasize the reality of the situation. The truth is that AENA already knows the situation that these businesses are experiencing. For this reason, it was she who, as a result of the decrease in the flow of passengers and their economic impact, made a general proposal to its commercial operators, with the aim of reaching a contract rebalancing agreement, part of which were accepted by the tenants. The gravity of the situation has led to tremendous legal uncertainty, as those who did not reach such agreements have come to the courts, whose holders are settling the dispute according to their best judgement and without the establishment of a unanimous criterion, including by changing each of the tenants' contracts in a differentiated manner, establishing conditions not agreed by the parties, in application of the rebus sic stantibus clause, by the appearance of good law, fumus boni iuris. What is the result of all this? Claims, claims and amendments to contracts with different criteria, according to the judge who knows the case in which each one is analyzed individually. In short, legal uncertainty. The amendment with a uniform approach for each and every lease that is contained in the Senate amendment not only implies legal certainty, but also makes it unnecessary to go to the courts and avoids the very high procedural costs that this entails for either party. It could not conclude without talking about another major economic consequence that will affect airports in the next five years and that is in the hands of the government: the approval of the DORA - Airport Regulation Document - that will take place in the Council of Ministers of the end of the month. This document includes every five years the increases or decreases to be applied to the fares that airlines are to pay to AENA for using their basic services. Following the proposal by AENA, which seeks to justify an overestimation of certain figures in order to achieve an increase in airport charges, namely an increase of 3.29% per year until 2026, the National Commission on Markets and Competition considers that they should be reduced by 0.44% per year throughout the period. VOX has submitted a non-legislative proposal requesting the Government to collect the proposal of the National Commission on Markets and Competition and to reduce airport charges by at least 0.44% for the period 2022-2026. I hope that is not correct, but seeing the firm defense of the interests of public enterprises, the abandonment of Spanish workers and the qualification of tourism as precarious and of little added value, we can almost advance what the outcome of the Council of Ministers will be. Lower airport charges. In conclusion, for workers abandoned by this Government, by SMEs, by businesses, by jobs at stake, by legal certainty, by reasons of fairness, justice and by application of the rebus sic stantibus clause, the VOX Parliamentary Group will vote in favour of the amendment. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-23-CD210923.u77	Thank you very much, Mrs. De las Heras. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mrs. Castillo López has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-23-CD210923.u78	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to begin my speech by showing our support for the Canarian people. Our heart and head are in La Palma. [[Applauds]] The bill that today reaches its final stage in this Parliament, with the amendment that comes to us from the Senate, does so as a bill of bat burrillo, an a la carte bill for socialists and communists. Ladies and gentlemen, this government is committing many serious faults, in our view very serious. Firstly, it demonizes the companies in our country, and the amendment we are debating today is an example of that. Businesses for catering or retailing activities note that this Government does not support them and, far from promoting laws to help them, is dedicated to hindering their work with the increase of all kinds of taxes or putting stones on the road, in the style of Minister Garzón with tourism, meat, oil and, recently, with the energy and VTC sector. It is now up to them to the shops and catering services present at the AENA facilities. Ladies and gentlemen, AENA charges the full 2020 rent to the airport shops, in a situation where the airport is completely empty. [[shows a press clipping]] [[Show a picture]] Mr Ábalos did not keep his word, but you also demonise and demonstrate every day a great incompetence when it comes to managing. They handle the letter, ladies and gentlemen. You, who hate structural changes, do not seem to like the short-term changes, such as Amendment No 3, which we are debating today, because it is easier to bring a law full of short-term, opportunistic and at the same time inappropriate patches than to carry out a thorough analysis of what the infrastructure sector needs in our country. It is a law as inopportune as the statements of Minister Reyes Maroto in relation to the volcano as a tourist claim. You carry the mistake in the blood, ladies and gentlemen. With this law they sought to resolve important and necessary aspects, such as, for example, the lateness of road transport or the adequacy of the sanctioning regime applicable to VTC activities, but they have done so on an improvised basis, without reflection, without clear diagnosis, in a disproportionate manner and, as always, at the last minute and through the amendments. It is a bill that comes late and, in addition, comes surrounded by lies and pressure, the same pressure that we all members of society suffer with the rise of light, shopping basket or tolls. What I do have to recognize, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, is that you are impeccable following your maximum favorite. Since the excuses were invented, the mistakes were over. Ladies and gentlemen, Spain deserves a government that goes beyond blaming the opposition when its policies do not work, but, as the great Antonio Machado said, 'the truth is what it is, and it remains true even if you think backwards'. The road is the main mode of inland transport of people and represents 94% of the transport of goods. We have already told you this during the presentation and in the subsequent debate that took place. The People's Party will always support transport and the implementation of effective and dissuasive measures against lateness, but something that was originally good, ladies and gentlemen of Podemos, has ended up becoming one more patch. They do not meet the needs of the road freight sector and do not face passenger traffic. Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist bench, to agree on the substance does not prevent us from denouncing the absolute disgovernment and lack of responsibility of this executive, and that is precisely what you are doing with the amendment we are debating today. You lack respect for this House constantly. They have brought us amendments to real decrees that have not been dealt with as bills and do not want to listen to the main opposition party or the rest of the parties. With regard to the infringements related to the rental of vehicles by drivers, ladies and gentlemen of Podemos, the People's Party is always going to lend its hand to put in place effective and dissuasive measures to combat what is wrong, but the extension of the infringements on pre-contracting and to qualify as very serious, for example, not having a road map, seems disproportionate to us. You Socialist ladies and gentlemen, infected with the populist fever of your government partners, mistakenly believe that making a wink of complicity to taxi drivers will make you happier, but you do not realize that these measures will not generate any more benefits for them. Today this measure is likely to come forward, but it is more based on ideology than on serious, proportionate and well-defined regulation. I am going to the amendment we are dealing with. Adjusting the guaranteed annual minimum income to the passenger flow is something fair, reasonable, balanced, legal and, moreover, of general interest; it is not said by the People's Party, it is said by the jurisprudence. You know, ladies and gentlemen, this problem could have been solved a year and a half ago, when former Minister Ábalos promised them that he would help them and did not, and later in the numerous requests made by the Association of Traders for a meeting to be held so that the ministry - the previous minister and the current minister - could intercede for them. We do not understand why AENA has refused to have a working group that would define a short-term measure of what you like, of those of bread for today, but hunger for tomorrow, that could alleviate this situation until that flow of travelers of the year 2019 is reached. I'm done, President. The People's Party is concerned about workers, about the more than 12 thousand workers in the sector who are affected by employment regulation files; workers who live with uncertainty and no longer have a centre to go back to.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-23-CD210923.u79	Mrs. Castillo, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-23-CD210923.u80	... because contracts were mostly due in 2020. I'm on my way, President. Stop hurting us with clumsy measures. Spain will be a better country without you in command. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-23-CD210923.u81	Thank you, Mrs. Castillo. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Arribas Maroto has the floor. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-23-CD210923.u82	Thank you, President. During these days and until the last moment the Socialist Parliamentary Group has tried to reach an agreement with legal guarantees with dialogue, predisposition and reasonable proposals, but this amendment, ladies and gentlemen, you know that it does not have them. I would therefore like to highlight the dialogue capacity of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, a parliamentary group which does not set its position from the outset by a mere political strategy. Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot vote in favour of this amendment which comes from the Senate because it has nothing to do with the object of this law, a law which, among other things, deals with the lateness of road transport, a problem which particularly affects SMEs in the sector, a problem which adversely affects the economic balance of their businesses. Ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about SMEs, small and medium-sized enterprises that do not charge for their services in time or in form. The delays in payments incurred by these small entrepreneurs create real holes in their accounts. Please think: is it right for an entrepreneur who gets up every morning to carry his goods in time to collect his services up to three months? Socialists clearly think it is unfair. This bill also progressively promotes the regulations of the taxi sector and of the rental vehicles with driver, so that they get closer, seeking a just and equal coexistence. Ladies and gentlemen, when we come to the government in 2018, we find a conflict between the taxi and the VTC, an unresolved conflict due to the lack of attitude and capacity of the People's Party to deal with these conflicts, conflicts that you continue to fuel in those communities in which you govern, as in Madrid and Andalusia. But, ladies and gentlemen, this project also does not leave school transport indifferent, and therefore plans to approve a temporary increase in the maximum age of vehicles carrying out school transport and of children with full guarantees of safety. This Government listens and responds to the discretionary transport sector. We have tried to speed up this process, but there have been other groups that have hampered it while autonomous and small businesses go bankrupt. This sector has suffered no more than 85% of the decline of its travellers. It is a sector that needs to extend the service life of its vehicles; they are small entrepreneurs who are waiting for our decisions to take their vehicles to ITV and get to work. Mrs. Castillo, do you think this measure is opportunistic? Tell those workers, tell those entrepreneurs who are waiting for us to vote on this measure. Mrs Castillo, today we are discussing this bill for another reason: the People's Party government privatizes 49% of AENA, misselling the assets of all Spaniards to a few foreign funds that in a few days won 800 million euros. Today they want us to put this amendment that has nothing to do with the bill, an amendment that comes from the Senate and that intends to force an agreement between two parties: AENA and the concessionary companies of the business premises located in the facilities dependent on AENA. What makes a third party have to modify a contract between two parties? Ladies and gentlemen, are you aware that with this delay we are harming thousands of companies that are waiting for this project? Of course you are aware, because those same requests and calls for help from small and medium-sized enterprises have reached you as well as us. Ladies and gentlemen, they could have used another parliamentary tool without harming these companies. In addition to harming businesses, this amendment is a clear impairment for a strategic enterprise that has mostly public capital and for small and medium-sized enterprises that have already reached balanced and fair agreements with AENA, but it is that unilaterally amending the terms of contracts through this law runs counter to the current legislation and the recent judgment of the High Court. It is contradictory for those who call themselves liberals to propose measures of an ultra-interventionist nature, in addition to the fact that these measures create legal uncertainty in the Spanish market. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, who are you defending? 51% of AENA's profits are from all Spaniards, and if AENA loses, we also lose all Spaniards. I'm on my way, President. I believe that parliamentarians should listen to citizens and civil society. We must meet with collectives, with companies, with trade unions, with associations, but to do this listening work, to use parliamentary mechanisms to serve the interests of third parties, as parliamentarian, seems unacceptable to me. Citizens expect empathy from us, citizens expect us to understand their suffering, citizens expect us to respond to their problems. Members of Parliament must be aware of this, otherwise improving the lives of citizens will be a simple aspiration, but we will not be able to make it a reality. Thank you, President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-23-CD210923.u83	Thank you very much, Mr Arribas. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-23-CD210923.u84	Ladies and gentlemen, we moved on to the agenda item on the subcommittee's report on the review of the updating of the normative framework and the system of international cooperation for development. In defence of the motions for resolutions tabled by the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mrs Gorospe Elezcano has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-23-CD210923.u85	Thank you, President. Good morning, everyone. The truth is that the debate on the report and the defence of the amendments that were adopted and those that we left alive are being carried out in the Commission on International Development Cooperation, which was held on 29 June. Therefore, I would like to remind anyone who wants to know the position of the Basque Nationalist Party to read the Journal of Sessions of that day. We keep two alive - in any case, I can sum up -: one, in relation to the request that the transfers of cooperation be exempt from the ever-increasing costs that the bank charges, and the other, to incorporate into the law different informal spaces of relationship, of collaborative work, of contrast of opinions, because we consider that in the field of cooperation it is crucial to strengthen alliances and collaboration between different actors and different institutions. We are talking about an area in which we will under no circumstances support the establishment of vertical policies that will be imposed on the rest of the actors, because what we intend to do is to strengthen this approach of collaborative or horizontal work with different levels of government. That is why we consider - and that is why we keep the amendment alive - that it would be really important for progress to be made in the configuration and recognition of such informal spaces. We have tabled a number of amendments which have been accepted and incorporated into the report, including the possibility for decentralised cooperation actors to intervene in the area of delegated cooperation and the recognition that decentralised cooperation actors can participate in international forums where issues of their competence are discussed with a voice and with a vote. We have also put forward proposals for improving the coordination of the various actors and for specific recognition of the cooperation and solidarity funds that are really being instrumental. This type of funding, the NGOs that are working, the co-operators and the co-operators are really the soul and the engine of co-operation. De-bureaucratization, progress and recognition of minorities and indigenous peoples, transparency and accountability have been some of the areas proposed by the Basque Nationalist Party to improve the report. And what are the obstacles? Our approach has always been to defend what we consider to be decisive, which is decentralized cooperation, not only because of the quantitative contribution made by these actors to the international cooperation of the State, but basically because of the qualitative contribution. And they do not have to have a secondary role in which they are asked to implement policies decided by others, but they are determining agents, with normative capacity, that promote different models of cooperation, all of them successfully, and that they must work, I insist, collaboratively. The State has two major obstacles to resolve in order to move forward on this issue. The first is to recognize that plurinational State also in cooperation policies, which will make it truly respectful of the cooperation that is being done from different areas, as well as to take into account those regions with legislative powers that can participate in all areas, and the second, to overcome bureaucratic obstacles and make the necessary legislative changes so that cooperation policy can be managed more agilely, more effectively and more efficiently. I only have thirty-six seconds left. I would like to end by thanking all the co-workers and co-workers, NGOs, institutions and co-operative funds for the work they do, as well as all the people who have worked and have gone through the subcommittee to make their contributions to us because they are really the ones who have done the work and this report, and also all of you, comrades and colleagues from all the parliamentary groups and formations that have participated in the subcommittee, because it has been a pleasure for me to work with all of you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-23-CD210923.u86	Thank you very much, Mrs. Gorospe. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr López-Bas Valero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-23-CD210923.u87	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon again, ladies and gentlemen. As Mrs Gorospe has pointed out, our group, the Citizens' Group, has also kept alive a total of five motions for resolutions which were presented in the work of the subcommittee on the reform of the regulatory framework for cooperation. We submitted thirty-eight proposals in total, of which seventeen were accepted or negotiated. Nevertheless, we wanted to keep these five alive because we believe that with them we can further enrich the report itself to serve as the basis for a much richer, much better and much more effective new regulatory text for Spanish cooperation. In this respect, we must express our satisfaction at the work we have done, not so much for our own satisfaction but for the fact that we have contributed, precisely, to the collection of proposals such as that education has been put into value as an added value to international cooperation; that the own value acquired by Spanish cooperation has also been recognised in areas where it has already acted in other priorities arising from new global trends; that the need has been assumed to implement ex ante and ex post evaluations of cooperation policies on the basis of indicators in an objectively measurable manner; that competitiveness in added value has been included, not only in the criterion of low-cost competition, but also in the criterion of international aid; to promote Spain's participation in initiatives such as the Nansen, seeking assistance from persons and groups displaced by force for climatic or environmental reasons; to introduce in the framework of the international cooperation the criterion of prevention, and not only the assistance and solution of emergencies; to promote Spain as a safe country in terms of reception and asylum of persons between the LGTBI cooperation pursued by this type of cooperation, but also through the recognition of the role of good practice in the field of origin; Perhaps, we were most pleased to have the objective of allocating 15% of official aid for the development of Aecide in this legislature, until the end of the legislature, in humanitarian action, in one of the proposals we have agreed with other groups. But we did not comply with the above and, as I say, we wanted to improve that report even further. That is why we have maintained our five proposals, which I will summarise very briefly. Firstly, work to eliminate unnecessary duplication and red tape, because we believe that efficiency should be more than ever, in terms of cooperation, an objective to be pursued; we are talking about public money and we cannot afford to pay more or not to spend everything that is due to administrative obstacles. Secondly, to optimize technical cooperation offices to avoid budgetary deviations due to misuse or insufficient use of personal or material resources, because we believe that it is necessary to monitor and sanction, where appropriate, any inappropriate practices. Thirdly, to promote and improve the framework for public-private collaboration with, or between, companies, individuals and non-profit institutions; we are convinced that the best way to cooperate is with the participation of all actors involved, whether public or private, drawing on their experience and capacity. Fourthly, the proposal that we keep alive is to help private investment enter into cooperation in countries where it is more difficult to do so through regular channels, but where their experience may be more useful and necessary, because the entry of the private sector into those areas, reducing their risks, will encourage their greater participation and to achieve better results, not only for these companies, but also for the recipients of the cooperation they need to develop. And lastly, that the science and R & D+i system itself is also receiving aid in terms of cooperation both in the public and private sectors; we believe that by supporting and encouraging the private sector we will be able to get fully involved in cooperation activities and policies where the public sector has not arrived. We believe, in short, that these are five proposals, which are avenues of action for Spanish cooperation, which must be included in the subcommittee's report, precisely so that its perspective does not remain. We continue to force the entry into cooperation policies also of a private and business sector, which we believe should be there. In this regard, we call on this group to vote in favour of including these proposals in the final report of the subcommittee on reform of the regulatory framework for cooperation. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-23-CD210923.u88	Thank you very much, Mr López-Bas. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Illamola Dausà has the floor for the Plural Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-23-CD210923.u89	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning. As we already highlighted on 29 June at the meeting of the Commission on International Development Cooperation, at which the report prepared by the subcommission was adopted, we welcomed the report, although it clearly does not correspond to 100 per cent of what we would have liked or what we would have written if we had done it alone. During the subcommission's debate, many different voices were heard, all of them providing many ideas and suggestions for improving the current regulatory framework; contributions that we take into consideration, while we are very grateful - other speakers have said - for the involvement of the various representatives. They have been appearances which were the basis on which the Socialist Parliamentary Group, above all, drafted the first version of the report, which has been modified through the motions for resolutions tabled and negotiated by the various parliamentary groups, reflecting, from our point of view, in a more relevant way the different political options that we were in accordance with the subcommittee, and this is where it is important - we believe - to highlight the willingness of many of us, of many of the speakers, to reach agreements. Although it is true that not all the motions for resolutions have been incorporated - here the various speakers have been saying the ones that have remained alive, and we too are going to say ours - we do believe that the large number of amendments that have been tabled and all those that have been negotiated demonstrate the interest of the members of the subcommittee in advancing development cooperation. For this reason, I would also like to thank publicly for the work of all the entities that have sent us their motions for resolutions. The motion for a resolution that we, Junts per Catalunya, tabled aimed to ensure that the new law respected Catalonia's competences and the very model of development cooperation that we have, affecting logically and especially the respect and development of decentralized cooperation. However, as I have already said, three of our motions for resolutions remain alive, which we consider important and for which we call for their vote in favour. I have a doubt here because I do not know whether we can really ask for your vote, because many of us have already voted telematically, and therefore the vote is already cast, but at least it has been requested for those who are going to vote in person now. The three motions for resolutions are as follows: number 119, which seeks to improve the explanatory statement by adding a mention to the Agenda for Sustainable Development, which makes a reference to the Urban Agenda of the European Union For the action plan for the implementation of the 2030 Agenda in Spain and which has defined as a lever policy to promote the current paradigm of international cooperation for development; number 126, which concerns point 12, in which we propose the elimination of the expression 'when it relates to the subject matter of the contract', because we believe that cross-cutting criteria such as respect for human rights, gender sensitivity and energy sustainability should always be present, and finally number 135, which affects the qualifying adjective of the Aecide. In Junts per Catalunya we hope, we hope, that the constructive philosophy that has always prevailed in the preparation of the report and the general spirit of cooperation in the subcommission will be maintained, that it will continue in the legislative process that will begin - hopefully it will start sooner than later - and that it will make possible the adoption of the law in this legislature. Yes, we want the adoption of the future law of cooperation, but also, because otherwise it would be to leave the task to half, the revision of other complementary or related rules, such as the General Law of Subsidies, the Law Regulating the Basis of Local Regime or the Law on Rationalization and Sustainability of Local Administration. In conclusion, I would like to say that the separate vote on the motions for resolutions has allowed us to vary slightly the meaning of the vote. Of course, we reiterate our vote in favour of the final report and wish to get to work as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-23-CD210923.u90	Thank you very much, Mrs. Illamola. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Carvalho Dantas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-23-CD210923.u91	Thank you very much, President. I begin by saying that exactly a year ago we voted - and unfortunately it was rejected in this house - the proposal of the Platform Regularization Ya and the Coordinator Obrim Frontieres to regularize more than 600,000 people in irregular administrative status in the Spanish State. [[Show your T-shirt, which is printed: '#Regularization Ya. Permanent and unconditional']] We must take three things into account when we talk about cooperation: that resources vary, that tools change and that the model has to be adapted. When we explain that Catalonia is a country of solidarity with the countries and peoples that have been impoverished by the global north we must remember the society mobilized in various campaigns, for example, in the eighties, passing through the birth of the municipalist cooperation of 86, when many municipalities and NGOs, such as Justicia i Pau and the Ciemen, decided to create the Fons Català de Cooperació al Desarrollo in 86; the humanitarian aid campaigns in Bosnia in the nineties; the launch of a District 11 of the Barcelona Juntament with the great Pasqual Maragall, but also for the huge citizen camps for the 0.7 of twenty-six years ago throughout Catalonia, until the adoption of the first Catalan law in 2001. A long time ago. In all these years the world has changed quite, obviously. From the famous 0.7 commitment that was adopted at the UN many years ago - and almost no one remembers that it is not being fulfilled - we have moved to less concrete agendas budgetaryly, but much more ambitious politically, such as the Sustainable Development Goals in the famous 2030 Agenda. However, in all these years, ladies and gentlemen, poverty and inequality have not stopped growing and have shifted from a global North-South dichotomy to a huge increase in inequalities in each of the latitudes, so today we can talk about inequalities everywhere. We are not just talking about development cooperation, we must talk about global justice. And why does the server make this Catalan historical summary? Basically because I am here today to defend the amendments, all the Republican Group's proposals to this report. I would like to highlight five points - I have very little time - that seem very important to me. First, the reform of the Spanish Law on Cooperation should strengthen the role and representation of the diversity of actors in the bodies of planning, implementation of the cooperation policy and the General Administration of the State. What does this mean? Decentralisation, the PNV deputy has already commented on this. Secondly, the reform of the Local Regime Bases Act, in order to establish the municipal cooperation competence explicitly, clearly, unequivocally and to avoid its questioning. Thirdly, reform the Law on Rationalization and Sustainability of Local Administration - fundamental - because it gives all the power to interveners and secretaries to decide at their discretion whether or not local authorities can cooperate. Fourth, the General Subsidy Act to facilitate administrative management tailored to the specific needs, obviously in cooperation, of local public administrations. And fifthly, cooperation must promote rights, social justice and inclusion; ecological solutions to peace; political coherence: the SDGs, the 2030 Agenda; protection of ethnic and racial minorities; languages, ladies and gentlemen - there is an amendment from the Republican Group that has not been accepted, it is not that you do not accept the languages of the Spanish State, it is that you are not accepting the languages of the world -; cultures; human rights defenders; basic rights in health and education; promotion of civic space, citizenship; global education; awareness-raising; climate justice; promotion of inclusive and sustainable economic models. [[applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, from the Republican Group we are asking - obviously many of you have already voted - to consider our amendments alive. Finally, we must have a real and verifiable commitment to humanitarian aid. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-23-CD210923.u92	Thank you, Mrs. Carvalho. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Sánchez del Real has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-23-CD210923.u93	Five minutes to talk about cooperation, I don't think much time. In fact, the groups have maneuvered so that there would be less debate. This project on cooperation is a strange project, because it is born an orphan, born wrong and born a liar. It is born orphaned because the beautified minister - who has been the great adalid in her hegira under which this project was born- pretended, as you will recall, a feminist diplomacy, an ecological diplomacy, a diplomacy with a lot of 'ista', but now it is imputed, it is very imputed, as this government will be imputed. So this proposition is born orphaned. They will remember that the last contact we had in this Commission was with the minister herself, who very kindly invited us to eat on the eve of her being defended in the midst of her embellishment with this absent President. Cooperation 'co' and 'de', i.e. it is cooperation and development. That is why we understand that development is what has to make the ultimate end of cooperation precisely the disappearance of aid. The ultimate goal of any aid must be that we are so effective, so efficient and so effective that they never need help again. There we will have reached the goal, and not to feed yourself back as we do with these speeches full, one after another, of common places and fictions; those little unicorns that you have. [[Applauds]] The world has changed. Are you going to go talk to them about feminist diplomacy, environmentalism or ask them how a Taliban feels about gender today? [[Mr. Sánchez del Real shows a pakol beret.]] Spain has left EUR 4 billion - which I must say was well invested, in security and cooperation - in the hands of these gentlemen. This is what has changed in the world these months. By the way, we've been talking to them about the world changing and it's been that way for quite some time now. This is the raw reality faced by those people we want to help. They face not only the Taliban but all dictators, all those who try to oppress people, peoples and nations, in the hands of many of the same slogans that some have used right here today. [[Applauds]] What has happened to feminist diplomacy? What has happened to environmental diplomacy? When you go - if you go - to Kabul, you will answer with this you know Him in the Commission, but this is the answer to feminist and ecological diplomacy, 'this', 'this', 'this', 'this'. [[shows a burka]] [[Ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, some of them on the floor]] This is what they're going to answer. As long as you are not clear that this is the raw reality of the world, any goal or money invested in cooperation will be handing it over to these, which is exactly what happened this past month. [[again show a pakol beret]] Returning to our Spain and our ministry, he was born orphaned because the minister in his first appearances did not even mention cooperation, it is that until yesterday the structure of the ministry that has to cover us in this essential work was not published. And it is born an orphan because this ministry is born of a project that comes embellished, because the present minister comes embellished from the Falcon. I am afraid that, despite the work that the Socialist Group's Members have done to promote all this, you have been orphaned. If they have even made Secretary of State a person who was not even on the Commission. That's how orphaned this project is, because I'm talking about politics. In fact, this project lies, lies in its drafting. You are going to publish in the State Official Gazette and in the Official Gazette of the Courts a text that lies, because it says there has been consensus. False. The text says there has been consensus, but consensus requires agreement from all parties. There has been no consensus. Have we agreed that participants from all ideologies, all sympathies and all origins would come? Of course. Have we agreed to those presences? Yeah. But has the final document been agreed? No, that's fake. We have not even had a working meeting between the members of the group to talk after the appearances and to do the drafting - which the Socialist Group had already done and whom I thank again for the work -. What a consensus that is, where one does not even feel to consent. That is the respect you have for the truth and the word consensus. So this strange process requires us to tell the truth of what cooperation has to be. Cooperation must be based on one ideology, the Spanish Constitution, and on one question, what human rights are. It has to be orderly and secure it has to have control, it has to have evaluation, before and after. We are talking about that they have not yet given explanations to the millions of Aecide that have disappeared in Panama and other countries. We'll talk in commission about that. So, ladies and gentlemen, when you go to talk about cooperation with one of these, don't forget that you are going to answer them with the raw reality There will have to be a lot of work to do for cooperation that really helps people. [[again show a pakol beret]] [[show a burka again]] Thank you so much. [[Prolonged applause by the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, on the ground]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-23-CD210923.u94	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez del Real. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr. Elorriaga Pisarik has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-23-CD210923.u95	Thank you very much, President. I rise to this rostrum to present the assessment that my group makes of the conclusions voted on in the International Cooperation Commission of the work that you know. As I already had the opportunity to say in the debate we had in committee last July, our assessment is unfavourable, and I will try to explain very briefly why. Since Pedro Sánchez became President of the Government just over three years ago, three Foreign Ministers, three Secretaries of State for Cooperation and three Directors of the Spanish Agency for Cooperation have been in office, i.e. nine responsible for the same matter in just three years. This dance of office, followed by the consequent wandering in foreign and cooperation policy - and I dare say that in all foreign policy - has brought with it a very efficient management, and two data are enough to verify. The Government's annual regulatory plan for 2020, the first adopted by the Government, announced a limited reform of the Law on International Cooperation, exclusively to extend the deadlines for administrative agreements and cooperation projects and also promised a comprehensive reform of the Fronprode. One year later, the regulatory plan for the current year indicates the need for a comprehensive reform of the Cooperation Act, and no reference is made to the need to amend the Fonprode. In other words, the priorities of this Government have changed significantly in twelve months, simply as a result of a change in portfolio ownership. On the other hand, if we look at the economic resources allocated to this policy, we can easily see that, having increased the resources allocated in the budget to Aecide by 21 % in this year, in 2021, the obligations recognised on 31 July this year have decreased by 8,6 %. Currently, exactly 23% of the resources approved for Aecid have been used. If we look at the current transfers, which are the core of Aecid's activity, 14% of the appropriations approved by this House for cooperation to date have been used. In other words, it seems to improve budgets, but the money used in cooperation is actually reduced. Against this background, a document is approved stating that the allocation of 0.7 % of gross national income for the coming financial years will be legally safeguarded. Obviously, a completely useless effort to see the capacity for budget implementation. As a result, all accountability and expenditure assessment mechanisms are failing dramatically. The first conclusion is clear: it was not known what to do with international cooperation and the Government chose to ask this committee for an opinion. The result of this report is precisely the result of this starting point, because it is unable to provide clear guidance on the direction of reform, and I will say why very briefly. Firstly, because it lacks a clear diagnosis on which to base the proposed reforms. It is a prolific, repetitive and ideologically very biased document that does not address the content of the necessary reform. It sets out a range of objectives and priorities, almost all of which have been mentioned to us at any time over six months of attendance, but it hardly stops to determine what the new instruments are or what the new tools should be that would improve the effectiveness of the use of resources for cooperation. It is a short-term document: the current law has been in force for more than two decades and yet it is set as 2030 horizon. It contains a partial view of the system of cooperation. It absolutely forgets financial cooperation and significantly marginalises bilateral cooperation. It is far from the lines of reform of the countries in our environment and far from the institutional changes that have taken place in the European Union. In short, we absolutely share the need for a thorough reform of cooperation legislation, but we believe that it must be done much more rigorously. In addition, an additional problem has been introduced in the course of the amendments, which will have to be looked at carefully during the legislative process. If we want to link cooperation to foreign policy and that is the majority feeling, we must take into account what the approved competition distributions are. The allocation of powers to the autonomous communities cannot be altered by ordinary laws in this Parliament. Finally - as has already been said - the Spanish company is forgotten in this opinion; when it comes to internationalisation it is almost always suspicious and trying to limit its action. It is also extremely imprecise what is said about the status of the co-operator. Therefore, as a conclusion, you, the Socialist Party and the Government, have worked with most of your parliamentary partners, but with them you will hardly be able to shape a new state policy on cooperation. If you really want to, sit down with the People's Parliamentary Group and let's work together from now on. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-23-CD210923.u96	Thank you very much, Mr. Elorriaga. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] In turn of fixing positions, by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, I have the floor, Mr Moliner.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-23-CD210923.u97	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon now, ladies and gentlemen. Let me first of all thank our co-workers all over the world, people who show us day by day that solidarity is the tenderness of peoples. It is precisely for them and they make sense that we give our full support to this project and to international cooperation. The subcommission had the task of producing a report that would serve as the basis for the Government's preparation of the text of the new Law on International Cooperation. We understand that this task has been carried out in a critical and courageous document, which largely gives an effective response to the real problems that Spanish cooperation has been showing for too many years. I must say, with so much roundness and satisfaction, that the subcommission's process has been successful, mainly because we have been able to hear complaints and opinions from all kinds of experts in this field - in that case, from the agreed list - and we have been able to see the comatose state in which our policy of international cooperation was based after years of disdain, abandonment and instrumentalization by successive right-wing governments. Our group, the United Nations, will support this report, of course it will. We would have liked it to be even more ambitious, but I hope that we can still enrich the text in the different stages of processing that remain ahead. I would like to highlight some unquestionable achievements that I believe this report contains. Firstly - as has already been said - the decentralization of the system and the development of all decentralization. The cooperation carried out by the Autonomous Communities and local entities is one of the most important assets of our system of cooperation, and it is because of its quantitative importance, since, as much as we want to deceive ourselves, it is the municipalities and the Autonomous Communities that carry out and sustain most of the solidarity cooperation. It is also the orientation on the satisfaction of basic social needs and the exercise of rights, and all this with a policy involved with NGOs. However, we must also say that we are witnessing a dangerous situation with concern, because in many cases we have seen how the ultra-right blackmailed the governments of the People's Party in various negotiations to reduce or make disappear the funds that were earmarked for development cooperation or development aid. Please, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, do not let yourselves be blackmailed, because afterwards the good words will be worthless. Disapproving these values of decentralized cooperation and organized social fabric is a mistake that we must not make. Of course, there is also an almost unanimous consensus, or almost consensus, that feminism is one of the hallmarks of cooperation, and it is more than obvious, that there is no need or need to point out. Finally, there was talk of the budget, which had already been touched. The report states quite bluntly that without a budget there is no policy and without progress towards 0.7% the reform will lose credibility. There will also be controversies that we must continue to debate: on the political direction of cooperation, where we are committed to maintaining some independence; on increasing aid for bilateral cooperation, because in this sense 25% seems insufficient and we would expect that 50-50 in relation to multilateralism, and, of course, on deepening the aspect of migration. This is the first time that this last aspect has been specified in the report, and our group is honoured to have insisted very much on this. We must not forget that emigration is a right and that, in addition, the liberalization of economies is destroying the livelihoods that force such emigration. All of this will be part of policy coherence and I think it is something we need to deepen. Of course, from our group we assume the challenge of changing the meaning of globalization, the challenge of moving from neoliberal globalization to solidarity, equity, social justice and sustainability, with a new model of multipolar governance, without vetoes. I conclude, ladies and gentlemen. The Legislature has done its job. We have allowed all participants, social actors, experts, teachers, trade unions and civil society in general to raise the law they need. From this rostrum, as head of the Commission for International Cooperation, which I am honoured to chair, I would like to thank all the participants for their willingness and effort. Thank you to your ladies and gentlemen for all the work you have done and especially to the NGOD Coordinator for her tireless work and to the Commission's lawyer for the same reason. We have a golden opportunity, let's not waste it.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-23-CD210923.u98	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-23-CD210923.u99	Let us be the solidarity that the moment needs. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-23-CD210923.u100	Thank you very much, Mrs. Master. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, Mrs Guijarro Ceballos has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-23-CD210923.u101	Eskerrik asko, president. Eguerdi on, ladies and gentlemen. Development cooperation cannot be a partisan issue. I would ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to see a long light for solidarity and for global justice, because Spanish development cooperation is a mark of the country, and of the real one. Our cooperation has added value, great experience and presence on the ground. The pandemic or the recent crisis in Afghanistan shows us that we are a global community, that suffering is universal and that fear is shared. We are a people of solidarity within and outside our borders, with more than 2,800 professionals who work throughout the planet under really complicated circumstances and who have been left to life, with more than 2 million people who collaborate with NGOs and with a great diversity of actors. So, ladies and gentlemen, do not underestimate or manipulate this matter, because this is a flag that represents us as a people. Just a second to address your VOX lordships. You are disqualified from the very beginning. They have directly proposed that the Cooperation Commission should disappear from Congress. That is their contribution to cooperation; patriotism of the good. And another question. Beware of the speeches against the 2030 Agenda that they have made during the preparation of this report, that some buy them and look at what they end up shouting at Chueca. I invite the People's Party to rise to the challenge and to build state policy, which you are walking on in this matter with those of witches and other beauties. I invite you to sit down for a real dialogue, honestly, although seeing your latest positions in Europe on gender-based violence or on LGBTI is evident your loss of values. This parliamentary group and the Government of Spain have been committed since the beginning of the parliamentary term to being a reference and to regaining the lost decade in cooperation with the governments of the People's Party. The report has been carried out with the impetus of the Socialist Group and with the consensus, yes, the consensus, of the majority of the groups, after many months of work, more than thirty appearances and many meetings with the entire cooperation sector. So the first thing is to thank the sector. They have been very generous in offering us their knowledge and their times to update and reform our cooperation, which is much needed. We also thank the ladies and gentlemen who have had the spirit of consensus. More than 50 amendments have been adopted and more than 20 transactions have been made. We also thank the lawyer, our advisor, and my colleagues in the group who have been unquestionably betting for international solidarity from this vision of our social democrat life. [[Applauds]] As stated in the report, we want genuinely transformative cooperation, with renewed humanitarian aid, to establish Aecid, the Spanish Agency for Cooperation, as a central pillar, to incorporate that mixed professional career so demanded by the sector, to legally embrace autonomous, foral and local cooperation and to recognize that added value and its uniqueness. We want our multilateral cooperation, as the President of the Government said these days at the United Nations, to provide real solutions to the challenges facing this world. We want to promote multi-stakeholder and multi-level partnerships and, yes, financial cooperation for sustainable development. And of course we will push for financial commitments. I sincerely believe, ladies and gentlemen, that this is a good report, that it is agreed and dialogued with those who wanted to agree and dialogue. It is a good basis for feminist, green, sustainable and human rights-based cooperation. [[Applauds]] One last point, for me the most important. We must promote cooperation where the protagonists are the people of the evil so-called south - Afghanistan, Guatemala or the Congo - all those people with names and surnames and with life stories that tell us the so unequal distribution of the wealth we have. It is to them that we have to listen to and accompany in their processes and to whom our work is directed, our effort of consensus, our commitment. The greatness of this work is to be able to change unjust realities for realities of hope. Gioconda Belli said solidarity is the tenderness of peoples. Let's do it. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-23-CD210923.u102	Thank you very much, Mrs. Guijarro. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum. Ladies and gentlemen, we vote in five minutes. I remind you that you will only be able to vote from the seat that corresponds to you, identified with your name on the screen. I also remind those Members who have been authorized to vote for the telematics procedure, who cannot do so from their seats. (Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-23-CD210923.u103	Ladies and gentlemen, take your seats. We shall begin the voting. Commission agreements on reports of subcommittees and presentations. Report of the subcommittee on the review of the updating of the normative framework and the system of international cooperation for development. The motions for resolutions tabled by the parliamentary groups were voted on. Motions for resolutions by the Basque Parliamentary Group The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 101 plus 246 telematics votes, 347; in favour, 41 telematics votes; against, 101 plus 199 telematics votes, 300; abstentions, 6 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-23-CD210923.u104	The motions for resolutions are therefore rejected. Motions for resolutions by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. Motions for resolutions 73 and 76. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 101 plus 246 telematics votes, 347; in favour, 37 plus 90 telematics votes, 127; against, 64 plus 145 telematics votes, 209; abstentions, 11 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-23-CD210923.u105	The motions for resolutions are therefore rejected. The rest of the motion for a resolution by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 101 plus 246 telematics votes, 347; in favour, 37 plus 66 telematics votes, 103; against, 64 plus 171 telematics votes, 235; abstentions, 9 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-23-CD210923.u106	The motions for resolutions are therefore rejected. Motions for resolutions by the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mrs Illamola Dausà. Motion for a resolution 135. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 101 plus 247 telematics votes, 348; in favour, 20 telematics votes; against, 101 plus 217 telematics votes, 318; abstentions, 10 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-23-CD210923.u107	The motion for a resolution is therefore rejected. The rest of the motions for resolutions by the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mrs Illamola Dausà. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 101 plus 247 telematics votes, 348; in favour, 22 telematics votes; against, 101 plus 207 telematics votes, 308; abstentions, 18 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-23-CD210923.u108	The motions for resolutions are therefore rejected. Motions for resolutions by the Republican Parliamentary Group. BLOCK VOTING OF THE PROPOSALS FOR RESOLUTIONS. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 101 plus 246 telematics votes, 347; in favour, 27 telematics votes; against, 101 plus 202 telematics votes, 303; abstentions, 17 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-23-CD210923.u109	The motions for resolutions are therefore rejected. Motions for resolutions by the VOX Group. BLOCK VOTING OF THE PROPOSALS FOR RESOLUTIONS. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 101 plus 246 telematics votes, 347; 53 telematics votes; 64 plus 128 telematics votes, 192; abstentions, 37 plus 65 telematics votes, 102.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-23-CD210923.u110	The motions for resolutions are therefore rejected. Motions for resolutions by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress. Motions for resolutions 173, 215 to 218 and 254. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: votes were cast, 101 plus 245 by telephone, 346; in favour, 37 plus 78 by telephone, 115; against, 64 plus 105 by telephone, 169; abstentions, 62 by telephone.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-23-CD210923.u111	The motions for resolutions are therefore rejected. Motions for resolutions 212, 213 and 252. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: votes were cast, 101 plus 245 by telephone, 346; in favour, 37 plus 66 by telephone, 103; against, 64 plus 103 by telephone, 167; abstentions, 76 by telephone.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-23-CD210923.u112	The motions for resolutions are therefore rejected. Rest of the motions for resolutions of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: votes were cast, 101 plus 245 by telephone, 346; in favour, 37 plus 57 by telephone, 94; against, 64 plus 134 by telephone, 198; abstentions, 54 by telephone.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-23-CD210923.u113	The motions for resolutions are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-23-CD210923.u114	I should like to inform you that from 2.30 p.m. to 3.30 p.m., i.e. for one hour, non-law proposals and motions, Senate amendments, the subcommission's report, the request for the establishment of the Commission of Inquiry, the amendment to the whole of the bill and the request for the bill to be adopted. All these matters will be put to the vote in the Chamber at the end of the sitting.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-23-CD210923.u115	We continue, ladies and gentlemen, with the point concerning the request made by the parliamentary groups Plural, Republican and Euskal Herria Bildu for the creation of a Commission of Inquiry to establish the causes of the railway accident of Alvia, which occurred in Santiago de Compostela on 24 July 2013. In order to defend the request made by several groups, Mr Rego Candaimil spoke by the Plural Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-23-CD210923.u116	Thank you, Madam President. [[The lady]] We bring here jointly Nationalist Block Galego, Esquerra Republicana and Bildu the proposal to reopen the Parliamentary Commission of Inquiry into the Alvia accident in Santiago de Compostela in 2013, with the aim that it may be possible to complete the work started in 2019, as well as to complete it in the light of new data, in order to draw adjusted conclusions that go in the line of establishing not only the truth, but also the assumption of political responsibilities that, from it, must be assumed, if necessary. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-23-CD210923.u117	Excuse me, Mr. Rego. I would beg the people standing and chatting to go to the cafeteria or their offices, please. We do not hear the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-23-CD210923.u118	But also, and I want to make it clear from the outset, we want this committee of inquiry to be the impetus for genuine independent technical research, which unfortunately, eight years after the fateful accident, has not yet taken place. We are with victims and family when they claim truth, justice and reparation, which we know will not be possible until all the circumstances around the accident become clear, and that is why we are here. In the parliamentary sphere, the investigation started in June 2018, after several blocked attempts. It was an investigation conditioned to a large extent by the existence of a questionable and questioned FIAF report, by an independent body, linked to the Ministry of Development itself. Today, we also know that ADIF spent EUR 15 000 on advising, or should we say indoctrination, those who appear on the Committee of Inquiry, which at least shows no interest in clarifying the truth and the responsibilities behind the accident. But the Commission was also dissolved before it could draw conclusions at the end of the parliamentary term, which in itself would justify this new Commission of Inquiry. It is also true that there are new elements, some relevant, such as the denunciation of a Talgo mechanic, that half an hour after the disaster several directors, literally, of the company gave the strict order to delete from the database all the faults that the train had. We are aware, in any case, that the ideal would be for this parliamentary committee to start after a genuine independent technical investigation, as the victims and their families have been claiming for eight years. But we are very afraid that if there is not enough political momentum this research will not come about. As you know, the CIAF report was not subject to the basic criterion of impartiality and independence. I do not say this, not by the BNG, says the European Railway Agency, which points out that the composition of the CIAF investigation team did not guarantee the independence of the investigation and did not meet the independence requirements set out in the Railway Safety Directive. The European Commission says that, at the request of BNG's Euro MP, Ana Miranda, opened an infringement procedure for the Spanish State still unclosed. At the first appearance in this legislature of the Minister of Transport, José Luis Ábalos, in the Commission, I asked him, on behalf of the BNG, to restart technical research in an independent Commission. His answer, beyond defending, to justify an independence in which no one believes, was that the ministry was planning to promote an independent technical commission on mobility accidents, not only railways, but on the whole of mobility, and that if such a commission thought it appropriate, the investigation could be reopened. The commitment was vague, but it was not even fulfilled. As far as we know, that committee is not yet set up. In any event, in response to a question put by the BNG in January 2020, the ministry acknowledged that it would be necessary - I quote textually - to carry out some additional action or analysis to the report which, without questioning what had been done, deepens and/or clarifies the doubts raised. However, nothing at all. Sincerely, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party and the Socialist Party, who have or have ministerial responsibilities in relation to this case and who also have in their hands this Commission to come forward, it is not so obscurantism and concealment in a very serious accident that left eighty people dead and more than one hundred and forty injured. Darkness and concealment, and not only on the part of the bodies directly involved. Today the president of the victim platform reminded me that the magnificent and award-winning documentary Frankenstein 04155 was vetoed in Congress and not yet broadcast on public television. Why? Like I said, it's not a receipt. In a few months, the judicial process in which we do not want to interfere will start, even if we find it surprising that there are only two accused persons and one of them is the driver. We continue to demand, as victims and family members have been doing for eight years, that a genuine independent technical investigation be launched. What we have to decide today in this Congress is whether a parliamentary committee of inquiry is reopened to determine the causes of the accident, the political responsibilities involved, and the recommendations to ensure that such an accident never happens again. There are still many incognites on absolutely relevant aspects: on the layout of the A Grandeira curve; on why the ERTMS system was not operational in that section, which would have prevented the accident; on whether this section was opened for political reasons hastily, before all checks and security tests had been carried out; who ordered the deletion of the data and, therefore, concealing fundamental evidence for the investigation, etc. Finished. We hope, ladies and gentlemen, that this Committee of Inquiry will be adopted here today and that this will be a decisive step towards clarifying what has happened. Truth, justice and reparation; we owe it to the victims and family members, we give it to society as a whole. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-23-CD210923.u119	Thank you very much, Mr. Rego. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr López-Bas Valero has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-23-CD210923.u120	I simply want to express the clear will of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group that this House can restart and complete the work of this Commission, which was already proposed, when in April 2018 it was set up for the first time. We believe it appropriate to allow the commitment to the victims and their families to be fulfilled so that this Congress, within its framework of action and competence, attempts to clarify the circumstances of the terrible accident of the Alvia train between Madrid and Ferrol, which took place on 24 July 2013. The eighty dead victims and the more than one hundred and fifty wounded require that we finish this work that was interrupted by the conclusion of the previous legislatures. Citizens will, of course, do so in the same direction, as was already expressed in the constitution of the Commission. We are here not to make this a partisan struggle, but a task to unravel what really happened and what needs to be done so that something like this does not happen again. As representatives of society, we owe it an effort to mitigate as far as possible the impact of what has happened with the search, as has been said, for the truth, for the possible mistakes and how to avoid them. We are aware that there is a judicial procedure under way that is not to be interfered with, because our work is different. That is why we will support the initiative to launch this Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-23-CD210923.u121	Thank you very much, Mr López-Bas. Mr Gómez-Reino Varela has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podem-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-23-CD210923.u122	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you, President. More than eight years ago, on July 24, 2013, eighty people died and about one hundred and forty were injured of varying consideration by the derailment of the Alvia 04155 train that made the connection, as you know, between Madrid and Galicia. The events took place on the corner of Angrois, about three kilometers from the train station of Santiago de Compostela; a black spot of the railway infrastructure where the trains were seen, and are still, forced to reduce considerably their speed to avoid events like the tragic event; a black spot at which, according to different versions, the minimum adequate security conditions were not given at those dates to avoid the calamity that happened there. Eight years have passed; eight years - surely - very difficult for all those who survived; eight years very difficult for the families of the dead, wounded, affected; eight years in which I believe that all of them and all of them, the whole of society and us and ourselves as legislators, deserve us, and above all we must end an investigation that once and for all sets out the conclusions and, if necessary, the responsibilities, also political, of that painful event. It should be remembered that at that time from the Ministry of Development - ruled the People's Party - came up with a theory: that the only ones responsible for this accident were the driver and the excessive speed. The results of the research carried out by the CIAF, a body also attached to the ministry, yielded similar conclusions. However, as has been said here today, in the summer of 2016, the European Union Railway Agency released a report on the accident that had been ordered by the European Commission. This report notes that the investigation carried out by the CIAF lacked independence criteria and generated a huge conflict of interest situation. Who made the CIAF report? For staff of Renfe, Adif and Ineco, companies responsible for the construction and management of the line. But not only that, the European Railway Agency's report warned that the investigation carried out by the CIAF was obviating key elements, such as line analysis, safety systems or risk analysis. As you all know, the Community directive requires that a risk assessment be carried out and that control measures be applied when changes in operating conditions or new material are made to pose new risks in such an infrastructure. In this case, the risk was neither assessed nor controlled when an amendment was made to the original project, the ERTMS safety system was not installed at the most dangerous point of the route, nor was the risk assessed or controlled when the chief of drivers warned in writing of the risk in December 2011. Nor was an appropriate assessment made when the security system was disconnected because it caused delays in this line. And what we are talking about here is breaches of the European Railway Safety Directive, as well as operational changes in safety systems that were not only contrary to existing legislation, but clearly posed a risk to the safety and life of people. The European Railway Agency concluded that, taking into account the relevance of the accident, an investigation should be opened following the appropriate independence requirements. Shortly thereafter, in 2017, following this report, after listening to the victims' platform, the European Parliament also asked the Commission and the Spanish State to promote and monitor a truly independent investigation. In the XII Legislature our parliamentary group, and in response to the demands of the Platform of Victims of Alvia, promoted the establishment of a parliamentary commission of inquiry for the clarification of the facts; Commission which, it must be remembered, was tried at all times to prevent by the Government of the People's Party in this House, but was finally able to move forward. The appearances made and the analysis of the information provided in the framework of this research provide elements that reinforced the Agency's thesis. European Railway as well as the Victims Platform itself. Unfortunately, as you know, the completion of the legislature did not allow this work to be completed with the right conclusions. In this impasse, the efforts of many and many have been aimed precisely at promoting the independent technical research demanded by European authorities and victims. For our part, we believe that the passage of time has only reinforced the need to carry forward this parliamentary committee of inquiry, and we will, of course, support its implementation. The establishment of this Commission is essential in order not to undermine the legitimate desire for truth, reparation and justice on the part of the families of the victims and of society as a whole. A member of the Victims Platform said a while ago: those who stayed here will always be remembered, what happened here will never forget. So we ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to work to give justice, truth and reparation, and above all to ensure that in this Commission, which we approve today, no shadow can cover up the truth. Thank you very much and good afternoon. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-23-CD210923.u123	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Romero Vilches has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-23-CD210923.u124	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me first express our solidarity with the victims of that tragic accident in Angrois, near Santiago de Compostela, in July 2013. This accident, which took eighty lives ahead and left multiple injuries, both physical and moral, in hundreds of people as well as their relatives and friends, remains unresolved more than eight years later. From VOX we express our condolences and our closeness to all those people affected by this disaster. It is clear that Spanish society has the right to know what happened then and what failed, to resolve responsibilities and to verify whether there has been some kind of onegligence guilt. It is a duty of justice that we owe to the victims and a need for society as a whole in order to prevent other possible accidents in the future. The purpose of this initiative before us is the possible creation of a Commission of Inquiry into this fact. As stated in the explanatory memorandum submitted by the proposing groups, it is assumed that a European regulation is not being complied with which points to the need for an independent investigation. I remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that Spain is a rule of law and when there are cases where there is suspicion that there may be some kind of human responsibility, there are legal mechanisms to investigate. We have both administrative and judicial channels, and both are presumed to be objective and impartial. Administratively, we have the Commission of Inquiry into Rail Accidents. This entity is under the responsibility of the Ministry of Transport and, if it is true that this Commission because it is included in the Ministry of Transport is not independent, as they say in their explanatory statement, we do not know what its usefulness is then and whether it is worth it to continue to exist. On the other hand, there is the jurisdictional route, which we have to acknowledge is unfortunately slow in our country because of the scant relevance given to the judiciary, both in respect for the separation of powers and in its material and human means. Eight years have passed since that tragic day without even being able to see what the sentence will be. But the truth is that in the text of the PNL that they present to us they recognize that work is still being done, both in criminal and in the contentious-administrative way, to know the reasons for what has happened and to resolve responsibilities. In any case, justice in Spain is presumed to be independent, and I have to tell you, ladies and gentlemen, that we find it quite tendentious that the proponents of the Plural, Republican and Bildu parliamentary groups should assume that the ordinary ways of investigation are not going to work, and ask for a committee of inquiry in Parliament. We find it tendentious because in VOX we do not fall from memory the immense capacity of the left of our country to use the misfortunes of people for partisan benefit; they are experts in using accidents, perhaps mismanaged or awkwardly communicated, to turn them into real hunts against the political enemy, while other facts - which we also have in mind and which surely have in mind all the Spaniards - that were real criminal attacks, filled with dark spots, are summarily coming together and it is considered inappropriate to ask in depth what happened. I also remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that in Balearic Islands you are not very much in favour of setting up a Commission of Inquiry, even though VOX has proposed it on various occasions, to clarify the events that have taken place with the girls in the Balearic Islands. [[Applauds]] I also assure you that, as much as you are playing VOX, you will never forget the more than three hundred victims of the ETA attacks which still remain unclear today, although for that reason the left, the far left, together with all your separatist accomplices, do not even intend to set up a Commission of Inquiry. [[applause]] As you see, we denounce once again that double measuring rod that demonstrates the sectarianism that has been installed in Spain with the alliance between the left and the separatists; that alliance that is the real enemy of Spain. We must also make it clear, however, that it does not seem appropriate to us that this Committee of Inquiry was already approved in the last parliamentary term, and because of the election call being interrupted, because in VOX we have empathy, ladies and gentlemen, we have empathy and we put ourselves in the place of people. In VOX we put ourselves in the situation of the victims and understand the frustration caused by the unfortunate judicial delay to which we have referred. For these reasons, our party does not want to be an obstacle to the clarification of the facts, but it does not want to be an accomplice to the political intentions of sectarian parties such as those who come to propose to us this Commission of Inquiry. Because ladies and gentlemen, in VOX we want to respond to the concerns of the victims and avoid other catastrophes in the future, if that were possible, because in VOX we care about the victims, but all, all the victims. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-23-CD210923.u125	Thank you. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Delgado Arce has the floor. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-23-CD210923.u126	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the People's Parliamentary Group, first of all, we wish to express our memory to the people who, eight years ago, on the eve of Galicia Day, lost their lives in the terrible accident in Angois, Santiago, as well as to the wounded, their families, friends and all the society that was shocked by this tragedy. We discussed the request for the establishment of a Commission of Inquiry, it is said, to establish the causes of the railway accident in Alvia where I have just said, an initiative supported by the Plural Parliamentary Group, the Republican Group and the EH-Bildu Group. Our group wishes to make the following points in this plenary. The first is to refer to the previous Committee of Inquiry. The XII Legislature, which began in July 2016, had among its objects of parliamentary debate one that happened on September 28, 2017, when the Plenary of this House agreed to the creation of the Commission of Inquiry into these same facts. The Commission was set up on 18 April 2018. We work on it for some of the people who sit in this Chamber today and hold a total of sixteen sessions of appearances. At the initiative of the parliamentary groups which were free to propose candidates, the victims, their associations, the Office for Victim Assistance, the train driver, the intervenor, railway experts from Renfe, Adif, the construction companies, were train manufacturers, European officials of the Commission for the Investigation of Railway Accidents, the Technical-Scientific Commission and people who had political responsibilities at different times from the start of the project of this line to its commissioning and to the date of the accident. This Commission was already working on the draft of what the opinion and conclusions were going to be, when the President of the Government, Mr Pedro Sánchez, in the exercise of his powers, dissolved the General Courts and, therefore, we could neither draw up the opinion nor, of course, refer it to the plenary for a vote. Second consideration. Ladies and gentlemen, this accident is being investigated - as could not be less - from the very beginning by the judiciary. The proceedings were conducted by the Santiago de Compostela Court of Instruction No. 3 and, since that date, an absolutely complex investigation process has been initiated - and the case has been declared on several occasions - and innumerable investigations have been carried out, in which the parties concerned, with their lawyers and with the required guarantee and contradiction and procedural procedure, have been able to request a huge number of evidence. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, on 21 July 2021, i.e. a very short time ago, the High Court of Justice informed us that Instruction No. 3 had agreed to the opening of an oral hearing in this proceeding. The Instructor gave rise to the charges against two persons in case the facts to be charged to them could constitute certain offences and, at the moment, we are in the process of preparing for the oral trial. At the end of July, the Justice Officer of the Xunta de Galicia reported that large and different spaces are being established to accommodate this trial, in which it is estimated that there will be the order of one hundred and twenty lawyers and prosecutors, which will have a logically wide duration, and in which there will be many experts and witnesses. This trial, it is indicated, is expected to take place in the first quarter of 2022. In this context, a trial is to be held in this proximity situation, which is to be held by representatives of the judiciary, unremovable and subject only to the rule of law, who are presumed to be independent, who will have all the capacities - and have - to examine documents, to examine witnesses, to see the contradictions or coincidences that exist in the experts. That is to say, a procedure which will set out in a judgment proven facts which will undoubtedly constitute very important basic elements for Members of this House today in order to be able to work on a final opinion of conclusions. Ladies and gentlemen, you did not want to wait for this to happen and you are putting forward this Committee of Inquiry. In other parliaments, such as the European Parliament, this would not be possible, because the regulatory rule prescribes that there cannot be a Commission of Inquiry when legal proceedings are under way. In any case, ladies and gentlemen, the People's Parliamentary Group is not going to oppose this Commission being set up. What we do wish to see is that it is not a parallel trial, a trial outside the courts of justice. It is, as they put forward in their request, a question of concluding the work plan approved in the previous legislature. In short, take advantage of the work carried out, which was enormous, conscientious, complex, difficult and extremely technical, to draw up an opinion, to draw conclusions and, of course, recommendations, which were assigned to this Commission. There are aspects, Mr Rego Candamil, which promote this initiative, as regards the composition and the time limits which, as you are well aware, are clearly capable of improving to accommodate them to the parliamentary framework and, at the same time, at the same time as the Commission will be set up, because clearly, with the time limits laid down, it would not be feasible to do so in the terms which have been raised. In any case, ladies and gentlemen, the People's Parliamentary Group will work in this Commission, if it is created with the utmost respect, seriousness and conviction that parliamentary work must be serious and not interfere in judicial proceedings. Nothing more, Madam President. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-23-CD210923.u127	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, Mr Ramos Esteban has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-23-CD210923.u128	Thank you, President. I would like to start with a general reflection on the attitude that we tend to have, which we tend to have, that some people have in this House. I am going to do this because I think we have to focus on what we have to try to avoid during the establishment and development of the Committee of Inquiry. We see how Parliament, on many occasions, has become something different from what we were used to, and some will think or wonder, if we were at the time when social networks did not exist, if we would see here every day so many gestures not full of content to draw attention. I think the overactions are exaggerated, which puts a lot of emphasis on gestures to draw her attention to. I know that it is very attractive for some people to draw attention to the fact that they can upload a video that their followers can support, hoist and retweet in the networks tomorrow, but I have no doubt that sometimes in this Parliament there is a feeling that there are more influencers than Members. I am saying this because I believe that in matters like this we cannot afford to focus on those gestures and we must try to go unnoticed. On such a delicate, sensitive, emotional issue, in which there are many families who have lost their family members, friends, children, parents, who have lost many people who wanted and who know that they are not going to recover, we have an obligation to be exquisite, to be rigorous, to draw the conclusions of why it happened and what we have to do to prevent it from happening again. We have to avoid the gestures that focus on us, we have to avoid going astray and not drawing the right conclusions and also avoid some shows that take place here, just as we have to prevent Members from coming here with souvenirs, as we have seen today with the Member of VOX, or there is a Member, also of VOX - who are usually the ones who make the most of this dynamic - from coming here to talk about ETA on a subject that has nothing to do with it. I think we have an obligation to this committee - which we are going to support - to be rigorous, exquisite and to draw conclusions. Each time there is a rail, sea or air accident, two processes are automatically opened, two tools that exist legally. One is the judicial tool, which draws the conclusions of the responsibilities over what happened and makes the decisions it believes are appropriate. Another tool has been mentioned today, which I believe we need to improve, as Mr Nestor and other Members who have spoken earlier have said: the Committee on the Investigation of Railway Accidents. I do not know why in recent years, whenever there has been an accident of this type, whether by rail or by air, there has been doubt as to whether such commissions are independent or not, or whether they are autonomous and whether they draw the most appropriate conclusions. I believe that we need to review it and, therefore, one of the things that the Government has done, after listening to the sectors and the victims of various accidents, is to propose - it is already in progress - the creation of a multimodal body that guarantees independence and autonomy so that any accident that occurs in the rail, sea or air field meets all the characteristics, with all the guarantees and that the victims never have any doubts as to whether there is any element that is not properly analysed. I believe that those who are here, those who are part of that committee, will have a great responsibility ahead of us. We will have to have the capacity of empathy to know, to feel, to think everything that people who know, as I said before, that their family members will never come back, that they will never have them next door again. I am clear that with regard to the conclusions that we draw, however rigorous they may be, they will always have doubts, but we have to give them the assurance that those of us here, with the work we have done in the committee, have given them all the guarantees, as I have said before, of solvency and rigour and that we have drawn the best conclusions. As I have already said, the Socialist Party is going to support this committee, which was set up and supported in 2018, and which, on the occasion of elections that were convened earlier, fell and the work that had begun was not finished. As other speakers have said here, I believe that what this committee has to do is close those conclusions, as it did with the Committee of Inquiry in Spanair. It was two committees that began their work in parallel: one has already completed its conclusions and the opinion has been adopted by this House, and that is what we have to do with the Angois Committee. I only expect one thing to think of the victims: that, once and for all, they have the opportunity to move on, not to forget their relatives but to move on, about a fact that should not have been produced and which we hope will not happen again. When there is an accident of any kind, no one can doubt that there are causes that have caused it. We cannot resign ourselves to thinking that this accident was inevitable. I think those of us here should have the ability to analyze what happened, how it happened and how we can prevent it from happening again. But I also want to add one thing, and this concludes: whenever there is an accident of any kind, the perception can be created that, for example, we do not have a safe rail system, but our country has a safe rail system, every day thousands of rail trips are made, we have an extensive high-speed rail network and we are high-speed referents. I think accidents like this can create uncertainty for people who use certain means of transport, and it's logical, but I still think that we have a secure system and that technology and its advancement allow it to be more and more. We have to give it certainty, security and assurance that in the setting up of the committee and in the development of its work we have properly analysed everything so that such a drama does not happen again. Nothing more and thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-23-CD210923.u129	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-23-CD210923.u130	We continue with the item on the agenda for the debate on the whole of the draft law on urgent measures for the reduction of time in public employment, coming from the Royal Decree-Law 14/2021 of 6 July. I should like to inform you that the Republican Parliamentary Group has called for this bill to be adopted. That request shall be put to the vote after the vote on the amendment as a whole. For the defence of the amendment as a whole, Mrs Vehí Cantenys has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-23-CD210923.u131	Thank you, Madam President, and thank you for the few and few Members left on a Thursday at this hour. Since I have time and I am sure that it has not exhausted everything, I will start with two preliminaries, with the permission of the Presidency. The first is that two years ago today the arrest of the members of the CDR, of the 23-S - which is called the case - and from here we want to send them a fraternal hug and we want to thank them. Thanks to the worms of the earth! We're with you! [[Applauds]] The second thing is, as the Member of the Socialist Party has said, the concern for the racist and Islamophobic spectacle that there has been in this rostrum not long ago. We usually raise our hands, stop the plenary and ask the Bureau of Congress to censor racist words and references. We have not done so because we normally do not agree with the Bureau's view, but we wanted to refer to the gesture made today by the deputy of VOX, because this gesture is not so far from the accusation of a witch that was made to another MP of the PSOE not long ago or from all the insults that, normally with a gender perspective, as the deputy of VOX has also done today, are uttered from this rostrum. Racism and machism are part of the same dynamic of power that wants us dead, that wants us out and that only wants homogeneous, grey people and oh, surprise! White, high-class, straight, and obviously, gentlemen. [[Applauds]] I'm going with the subject we're dealing with, which is the interim, the temporary workers in the public sector. The COVID-19 has given us a very clear lesson: public services are essential for survival. In addition, every day at 8:00 a.m., citizens came out to applaud public health workers. In fact, in this House we have very often applauded women workers in public health, we have even talked about other types of essential workers. Well, let me tune in to the popular saying and say that many applause, but few nuts; many applause, but few rights to public workers, because the amendment to today's whole goes against what is called the 'icetazol', the decree on temporary public workers that the most progressive government in history intends to solve by firing thousands of people. Interinage, temporaryity, is one of the main elements of precariousness of public workers. Let me tell you that more than 80% of temporary and temporary workers are women, oh surprise again!, when Members of Parliament and Members of the Right and the Far Right deny gender, deny sexist violence and deny the sexual division of labour, and say that we are talking about gender ideology. Well, look, more than 80% of female workers and temporary workers are women. In Catalonia, according to the Idescat, in 2019 there were 68,499 interim figures, 80,733 indefinite workers and 28,361 job figures; in 2018, of the 54,364 interim persons, 40,552 were women and 13,812 were men. According to data from 2020 published in the press, the rest of the Catalan countries follow the same trend; the Valencià Country, 84 700 interims, and the Illes, 24 500. In spite of this reality, the rules on public work are based on the reduction of temporary figures, but since this is not the practice, the Court of Justice of the European Union has ruled on several occasions condemning the abusive practice and fraud of the Spanish Government. We wanted to refer to two, Directive 1999/70/EC and the judgment of 19 March 2020, because they clearly condemn the abusive practices of the Spanish administration and, in addition, specify what temporary work is and therefore work in law-enforcement. In view of this situation, what is the solution of the Spanish Government? The 'icetazol', which is called, and is worse the remedy than the disease. In the absence of rights, the most progressive government in history puts layoffs on the table; the 'icetazol' bets, rather than for recognizing rights or for indemnifying, for firing. What's the problem? That thousands and thousands of people go to the street, people who have been working for the public administration for ten or twenty years. Today, the CUP, the independenceist left, contrary to what many Members of the European Parliament often say - which we are selfish, which independence only looks to its people, which we only make policy for our country - brings an amendment to the whole, with the same text that is being processed in the Catalan Parliament, to solve the situation of temporary and temporary workers in a way that equips them with rights. What does that text say about the amendment as a whole? That all those who take more than three years in time and who are developing a work considered structural, become fixed and fixed: the campaign that the platforms of workers and workers have called 'Fijeza Ya'. Dismissing thousands of people cannot be the solution to a demand made by the European administration, with all the criteria; people cannot be held in precarious conditions of this kind. So, out of internationalist solidarity, because we work for the popular classes and because we are at the side of public services and their workers today, here, we present this amendment to the whole. I want to finish three questions. The first is that Esquerra, Els Comuns, Ciutadans and Junts per Catalunya have supported in Catalonia the processing of the proposed law presented by the CUP, which is the same text that we present today. The first question is: What are these parties going to vote on today with this amendment as a whole? And the second question is: What will happen when there is a clash of legitimacy between the Spanish Government, the 'iceta', and the proposed law that will be dealt with in the Catalan Parliament in favour of workers? The second question is a clarification. Some people, some media outlets have spread the word that the CUP, by presenting this amendment to the whole, was against the rights of workers and temporary workers because it made the process slower. Well, look, it's not true. The only institution that has the power to slow down or speed up the processing of this royal decree as a law is the Bureau of the Congress of Deputies, which has extended the period for amendments to the whole; the UPC is doing what it is doing is putting an alternative text that defends the rights of workers. And the third question: what do the concertation unions do? Where are they? Who are they defending? The employer and the government? Indeed, the unions of concertation are defending the employer and the Government, because we have not seen them alongside the platforms of temporary workers. And this is a problem, because if the unions work for the interests of the government and the employers, it is that they cease to be trade unions, for reason of being trade unions; it is that they begin to be something else. It ended, now, with a demand from platforms and organized workers. It is essential to stop the opposition processes of places of abuse. It is essential to stop the opposition processes of places of abuse. The only solution is immediate fixedness. Get out on the street on the 25th of this month in Madrid, on the 2nd of October in Barcelona. Fix it now!
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-23-CD210923.u132	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Espejo Saavedra-Conesa has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-23-CD210923.u133	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I said the other day, and I maintain it, that the government, with the royal decree-law that is going to be processed, fortunately, as a bill, wanted to give up a very serious matter of acting staff. The motion put forward by Mrs Oramas in the past plenary session was not out of time politically, much less because this matter, as we see, remains on the table and remains a key issue. So much so, that we have practically the last three plenary sessions of Congress dealing with this issue, either because the Government brought that royal decree-law, because of the petitions and motions presented and, now, because of this bill and because of the amendment to the whole of the CUP. If I were to say that the royal decree-law was and is a boulder, I cannot say anything other than the amendment tabled by the CUP which is being voted on today. This amendment simply says that a worker who is more than three years in an interim situation automatically becomes fixed. Good. Above they call it sanction, but sanction for whom, gentlemen of the CUP? Of course, for the worker it is not a sanction and, of course, it cannot be, because it is he who is in a situation of abuse that is the situations of abuse that we have on the table that we have to resolve. We agree on that. But sanction for the person responsible for your situation? Nor do you impose a sanction on the person responsible for your situation. That is, you propose a sanction for the Administration because, within its conception, the Administration is simply an entity, a sort of magical heritage that is there. You think that public money is nobody's and, for us, public money is all citizens' money. What you propose is that the sanction be for all citizens, that you will see how your money is dedicated to paying a salary as a penalty for an abuse caused by one or some specific officials of an Administration who are not going to suffer or be given any penalty. In addition, they propose a system that, let me tell you, further encourages the abuse of interinity by those who want to use it to commit another additional fraud that sometimes happens, and you want to incorporate certain people into the Public Service without opposition. We all know that in certain administrations interim appointments have nothing to do with the needs of the service, but with the needs of what it also names - incorporating as interim persons in cases where the appointment of interim persons does not meet the needs of the public service. The solution to the abuse of interinity must be done once and for all by solving the current problem and preventing it from occurring in the future. Your proposal does not prevent it at all; it is more, it may even encourage it. What you are proposing is that abuse can continue to occur and, in addition, you are in favour of committing another major fraud. We are quite clear that the problem now faced by public workers in situations of abuse must be solved, but also that abuse must be prevented from continuing. And that's why you were asking: What are you going to do? So let's vote no, let's vote no on your proposal. Why? Because we are going to introduce amendments to the bill in order to try to ensure that this situation does not happen again. I repeat those which I have already had the opportunity to explain and which at least have the support, we could say gestural, of some of the Members who are also in this House. There has to be a system in which all public employees who are in a situation of abuse today are guaranteed their jobs, without discrimination because of the time they are in abuse, and should not be seen on the street by an abnormal functioning of the Administration - which is the responsibility of the Administration and its officials - and that affects those who take more than three years. It is true that the transitory situation between the adoption of the Royal Decree-Law and the processing and subsequent approval can lead to the loss of work by many abusive workers. My group therefore demands that the Government paralyze the effects of this decree, as far as the public offers concerned are concerned, until this Congress approves this law in its final form, which seems to be changing. For people who are in a situation of abuse, we have proposed and will propose in the processing solutions based on Article 61.6 of the EBEP, such as the restricted competition, such as regulating their legal situation with equivalent staff. We must also make a system whereby this does not happen again and that we do not have people more than three years in a situation of abuse. And how do you do that? Regulating. This amendment to the CUP does not do so, it simply says that those who go beyond three years become fixed. This does not fix the problem, this generates a sanction, as they call it, but not to anyone, but to citizens who will have to pay the compensation of those officials. Therefore, we do not agree. They are entitled or should be entitled, in accordance with our amendment, if approved, to compensation if they exceed three years. It will be compulsory for no one to be more than three years old, but if by the complicity of the Administration no one is, he will be entitled to compensation of thirty-three days as the rest of the workers, and at four years he will cease, yes or yes. And he will have to be paid in addition to that compensation, another tens, but of those compensations one or some people will be liable, who are responsible for the administration and who have an obligation to make those places not perpetuate in time. Not the Administration, because the Administration is you and you have no responsibility, and it's me and I have no responsibility, and they're all citizens. We are therefore going to propose that those responsible for this abuse should be taken care of. Also, as I said at the time, we will propose, when it comes to a law on the civil service - and here we will see what everyone votes for - the abolition of the privileges of politicians when they return from their positions in politics to the public administration. Let's see if what is said here is a mouthpiece, but then, at the time of truth, we defend our own privileges. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-23-CD210923.u134	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Rego Candaimil has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-23-CD210923.u135	Thank you, Madam President. The BNG is clear that a real and urgent solution must be given to the problem of the abuse of time in the public administration. We know it's not easy, but it's absolutely necessary. That is why we voted in its day against validating Royal Decree-Law 14/2021, because we understood, like the affected groups, that it was not a real solution and we advanced some issues that still seem fundamental to us. The first, the need to eliminate troop replacement rates, which are one of the causes behind the abuse of temporary recruitment formulas and which continues to prevent many places that are really structural from being treated as such. Secondly, the negotiating powers for the resolution of the conflict of abuse of temporality in the area of the autonomous communities which have their own public service laws must be respected; in the case of Galicia, Law 2/2015, do Emprego Público. It is in the autonomous communities, precisely, where there is the main exchange of temporality for skills, among other things, in education and health. Thirdly, the specific situation of the various sectors of public administration - central, autonomous, local, justice, education and health - must be taken into account in order to be able to negotiate and apply more timely consolidation procedures, since, in fact, we start from very different realities. So much so that the royal decree-law itself gave the deadline of one year to date its contents to the educational and health field. However, the room for manoeuvre he left was almost nil and that was a mistake. In addition, among other things, there needs to be a clear definition of what is considered fraud and temporary abuse. It is necessary to establish a strong minimum sanctioning regime as a deterrent; to put at the centre of the debate the elimination of the replacement rate; that administrations have the capacity to enter into stability agreements without implying that the expectations of those who, from outside, want to gain access to public employment are undermined; to eliminate the forced dismissal of all persons working for three years; and that compensation is of a general nature. In short, without fully agreeing with the text of the amendment as a whole, we believe that it is more appropriate than that of the Royal Decree-Law as the basis text from which we can incorporate proposals such as the one we will be doing to find a definitive solution, so we will vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-23-CD210923.u136	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] We have informed the parliamentary groups that the time limit for voting is extended to fifteen forty-five today. For the same group, Mr Bel Accensi has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-23-CD210923.u137	Thank you, President. Briefly, a background. The issue of interim measures has been poorly resolved in the State as a whole over the past few years, and here everyone, to a greater or lesser degree, should take on our responsibility. However, when different judgments, also from the European level, indicate the need for regulation, the Government decides to regulate by means of a royal decree-law. From the start, we didn't think it was right how to fix it. It does so with a royal decree-law that comes to this House without having absolutely agreed with anyone and that ends up approving at the last moment, spraying the laguero, with agreements with some parliamentary group, more based on goodwill than in reality. And here we are. An alternative text is now being presented and what is being asked of us? When it comes to legislating, we are going to do it with a basic text, which is the actual decree-law, or we are going to do it with a basic text which is the amendment to the whole. Without fully agreeing with the amendment to the whole of the specific text and understanding that there are many improvements, which could be made at the time of the partial amendments, we are going to vote in favour of the proposal. And we are going to do this for two reasons: first, so that the Government realizes and is another touch of attention that things cannot be done by Article 33; often Article 33 gives you the solution, but on many occasions it creates many problems, and, second, so I have said, if we have a text and we have another text, when we amend almost we prefer to start with the alternative text presented today by the UPC, which also had majority support in Catalonia, rather than through the Government's project. Now, whether it is the Government's project or the alternative presented by the UPC, we have already warned you that we are going to introduce one or other partial amendments to correct, remedy and find a solution that is already definitive and reasonable for all these thousands and thousands of interims who are suffering from disability and, if I may, the incompetence of the different administrations over many years. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-23-CD210923.u138	Thank you very much. [[A cleaning service worker disinfects the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Vallugera Balañà has the floor for the Republican Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-23-CD210923.u139	Thank you very much, President. Just to answer the questions that the CUP's fellow Member has legitimately asked us, I would like to say that we are going to vote affirmatively, just as we did in the Catalonian Parliament, to whom she knows that I am a true and total legitimacy. My political vocation responds to the Catalonian Parliament and, therefore, in line with what we are voting on there, we will vote exactly on the same text here, i.e. in positive terms. Secondly, I share as fundamental the paralysis of the OPE element in order to be able to negotiate with a certain peace, and I also share that everything must be done very quickly. That is why I hope that on October 31st, as was our commitment, we will have a text to send to the Senate; if it were already sent to the Senate, better. Therefore, I am somewhat in favour of all Members of this House that, if the Commission is to meet from Monday to Friday every week, we should do so; it is more, I am in favour and I have asked for all of us to agree. Finally - I'm sorry, not yet - in Catalonia I was asked to refer today to the collective of the TEIs, which did their tests on 18 September. I send you a big hug and I think I do, that your situation is not fair. Finally, I would like to say that we have asked the plenary to be called upon because we believe that this is such an important debate that we want it to be debated in this plenary, not just in the Commission, and that each of our groups can explain its position to the rest of the state. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-23-CD210923.u140	Thank you very much, Mrs Vallugera. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations, Mr Honrubia Hurtado has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-23-CD210923.u141	Thank you, Madam President. Our group is going to vote against this amendment as a whole, and we are going to do so for different reasons. The first is because, unlike what other groups have previously put forward, we believe that the text presented by the Government, as a background document, is a text that is more advanced in proposals in all areas of solutions that should be addressed. The second, which is directly related to the previous one, has to do with the fact that the text presented by the CUP offers only partial solutions; the spokesman for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group commented. Indeed, it is a text that establishes a sort of sanction mechanism so that, when a temporary worker in an abuse situation reaches more than three years old, he or she can automatically be recognized as a fixture; however, it does not establish any mechanism to prevent that situation from being reached in which that worker may be longer than he or she should be for the reasons justifying his or her appointment and therefore have to become a fixed worker. On the other hand, we also recognize that the text generates a series of legal doubts which seem to us to be quite obvious. Legal doubts as to whether they are in line with article 23.2 of the Constitution, and it is true, as we know, that the Constitutional Court admits that, for certain procedures, systems could be used, let us say, that do not exactly address the idea of equality, merit, capacity, etc., but all this has to be linked to a situation of exceptionality. And not only that, but it would have to be done in a unique and unrepeatable way, and in this proposal put to us by the CUP that is not the case. Basically, it is intended to make a change so that any person who has more than three years in a situation of abuse of temporality automatically becomes fixed, and that does not follow that definition of exceptionality that the jurisprudence of the Constitutional has told us that it must be so in order to be valid. But even if it were approved as proposed by the CUP and the Constitution gave it validity, for a matter of principle it also seems to us that this could to some extent be problematic - the spokesman for Citizens has also said - and it is that the fact that there is an automatic conversion, when it is three years old, to fixed staff would mean that at least all temporary staff recruitment procedures would have to be strengthened very much, because clearly what cannot be allowed is also that there is a situation in which there is a certain flexibility when it comes to doing this type of recruitment and that then the administrations, for whatever reasons, allow these people to reach the maximum and automatically become fixed. Those of us who come from territories or from nations where the subject of caciquism, client networks, etc., have posed a serious problem to the daily functioning of politics, we know what we are talking about and understand that there are certain things that, at the very least, could be dangerous. However, we believe that within the framework of the validation of the Royal Decree and the agreements to which the Ministry committed itself, we already have a way that can be quite effective in providing a solution to the problems that are being raised according to the demands made by the groups of interims and interims affected, and it is the way of 61.6 of the Basic Staff Regulations. That is to say, when the Ministry tells us, even if it is in the case of a staff that it takes ten years, that it has been uninterrupted and that its place has never been convened, when we are told that it is possible to use this route, what we are being told is that it is possible to use the restricted processes to solve this problem. We therefore understand that, if it is possible to do so with ten years, it is possible to do so with other mechanisms that are also well-founded. Why? Because here, as we discussed last week, there would be two issues to be taken into account. On the one hand, the time limit. Why ten years? Ten years seems to be an absolutely arbitrary criterion. There are other criteria, such as the three years, because that is where the abuse has been recognized by the recent ruling of the Social Chamber of the Supreme, or the five years, because that is where the doctrine usually comes saying that there is the condition of long-term interim, which could be equally valid and would probably have much more legal basis. And, on the other hand, there is the question of justifying exceptionality. This article from the EBEP tells us that the exceptional situation must be justified in order to carry it out. We understand, as we also said last week and I have said before, that for this to happen we must be linked to a unique and unrepeatable situation, such as the fact that the partial transposition of a directive into the public sector is being acknowledged. We understand that these avenues could be much more efficient in solving this problem, would have a greater legal basis and would also satisfy the demands of the interim and interim groups, which are demanding something as fair as not losing their jobs. These are the approaches that we will take to the presentation. We believe that the 61.6 approach should be applied by lowering the limit to three years, we believe that exceptionality should be argued and justified by means of transposition of the directive and we also believe that there are plenty of reasons to justify this exceptionality, not only because the directive is transposed, but also because of the consequences of situations of abuse that have not been done during these more than twenty years. But also for other issues such as, for example, the fact that there has been a prolonged period of time - it is said in the explanatory statement of the text - in which budgetary reasons prevent recruitment of staff. There was even a discussion that was resolved in the Supreme whether or not the places occupied by interims should go out to offer public employment above the replacement rate. The Supreme at the time said they should not, therefore fully conditioned the recruitment policies. In addition, other issues such as gender, for example, are in fact more than 70 per cent women. In this case there are judgments as important as that of the modification of the pension calculation of the Constitutional Court itself, which at the time said that the fact that a question will affect women by 70% was sufficient reason to justify the change that was made. There are, therefore, sufficient questions to justify exceptionality and we believe that this is the way forward, because it will be much fairer for people who are demanding not to lose their jobs. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-23-CD210923.u142	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Ruiz Navarro has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-23-CD210923.u143	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. This pin that I carry in the flap is called 'precious feet' and faithfully represents how the feet of a 10-week-old baby are and, therefore, a human being like us. [[Applauds]] All our support for those who dedicate their lives to stop that silent genocide that represents abortion. You're heroes, not criminals. [[The applause continues]] Ladies and gentlemen of the UPC, the truth is that I still can't believe that this, that is to say what you bring here, this two-leaf pamphlet, is what you call an alternative text to a bill. It is not serious that you present this in Parliament and I am not going out of my astonishment. [[The lady]] Talking to you about the content of this is not serious either, but we will highlight three aspects that we are drawn to our attention. First, the strange wording of the text itself. It is confused, unintelligible and also collects judgments of value as dogmas of faith. It is simply incredible in a text that pretends to be normative. It is also striking that you are talking about the mantra of the gender gap in public administrations, precisely there, where according to government data in March of this year more than 57% of civil servants are women, reaching by sector even 75% of the total. And this, as you have said in your exhibition, is also repeated in the interim staff. So, with this data, I guess you'll be referring to the male gender gap in the administration, right? [[Applauds]] There is no doubt, ladies and gentlemen, that the alternative text before us does not fit in any way. It is not acceptable to present something so deficient and with a total absence of basic legislative technique. But do you really believe that this can be published in the BOE with normative value? It's amazing. If the text you are trying to replace, this is not even a primary school job that you have brought us. This is an absolute shame in this Parliament. [[Applauds]] The second point I want to comment on with you is that on your page 4 you also dare to wear medals. Apparently, there was no democracy in Spain until the CUP appeared and the workers were chained with balls to their jobs. Read your own text and see how you put it there. Of course, being you communists, who create adalides of freedoms is nothing new; you have been selling paradise since 1917 and only extending hell. [[Applauds]] Thirdly, the cake truce, is that you intend to fix here, apparently, anyone who works in any entity directly or indirectly involved in more than 50% by an administration. This is really very shocking because it comes to my mind that, perhaps, you want to make staff equivalent to the career official you have placed in Cultural Ómnium, in the Platform for Language or in any other cultural chiringuito' - with k - linked to Catalan coup. [[Applauds]] Maybe you go around, because indirect participation is something very ethereal, even I would say that very fluid, something like genres, don't you think? And do you think that, for example, they could also make fixed staff, equivalent to an official according to this text that presents us, to the wife of Juan Espadas, mayor of the PSOE of Seville, regional leader of this party, who does not know or explain what functions he performs in the Faffe? Because with the text that you're presenting to us, we're doing the same thing to a career officer, aren't we? You really, with what you are bringing here, are not respecting the work that is being done in this Parliament. It's really a shame. If you really want to help the acting staff engaged in temporary abuse, instead of bringing these things here, you could start by doing two things that would be very important. The first is to demand urgently both in the Catalan Regional Parliament and here that a rigorous audit be carried out of which places and persons linked to public administrations are suffering real abuse of temporality, because it is urgent, ladies and gentlemen, to have this audit. You can't waste a minute more on having this authorship to start working. The victims must be identified with names and surnames, because not all interim staff suffer from temporary abuse, but those who suffer should not remain even a minute more invisible. And, secondly, what they could do is also denounce the most likely unconstitutionality of the royal decree-law on which this bill is based, as VOX does. It is clear that the best way to amend a rule that is contrary to our order in its entirety is to change it. Yeah, yeah, change it. And it turns out that in VOX we're already taking the pleasure in doing it. Indeed, it is surprising that a Government which has been declared unconstitutional by a state of alarm and which is on its way to the same with the latter has not yet resigned. The illegal and massive violation of our fundamental rights does not deserve a lower price. So, ladies and gentlemen of the UPC, bring serious work to the House, if you can, and we can also debate seriously what you bring to this Chamber. Nothing more. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-23-CD210923.u144	Thank you, Mr. Ruiz. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Constenla Carbon has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-23-CD210923.u145	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. I wanted to begin my speech by reminding Mrs Vehí - who has just walked out the door - and Mr Botran who is at the Congress of the Deputies of Spain, of which you are a member. I want to make this clear at this point because in the explanatory statement of the alternative text to the draft law of urgent measures for the reduction of the temporality in public employment presented to us they are based solely and exclusively on Catalan services and the truth is that we are faced with a situation that affects many Spaniards, not just Catalans. The People's Party, a party that is serious and concerned about the stabilization of public employment, has managed to reduce the temporality of public employment in the General State Administration by less than 8%. This has been achieved thanks to the launch during 2017 and 2018 - when, by the way, the People's Party ruled - of two of the major agreements for the stabilization and consolidation of temporary public employment, as reflected in the General Budgets of the State. There is also another agreement, the same agreement, which is reflected in the General Budgets of the State of 2021, approved by the Socialist Party. According to data provided by the Secretary of State for Public Service in this House, there is currently a temporaryity in public employment which reaches 37% in the autonomous communities and 12.45 % in the local entities. The People's Parliamentary Group, at present, continues to work for quality public employment, listening to the affected groups to scale up the problem and present the amendments to the bill, coming from Royal Decree-Law 14/2021, which is currently being dealt with in this House. And the Members of the CUP - who are no longer here - bring to this House It is an alternative text to the draft law that is under way, a text that is very difficult to understand, both in substance and in form. In the form it may be because they translated it from a text into Catalan and online tractors sometimes fail, and what is worrying is that they do not do an in-depth reading to ensure that the translation captures the content of the original text. This lewdness is a clear lack of decorum and respect for both the Legislative Chamber and all the Members who are part of it. The proposal before us is a proposal with total lack of legal rigour, which we can describe as a populist and, above all, a simplistic one. Simplistic, as they collect themselves in the explanatory statement, or maybe it's another translator's mistake. And they bring us a text that denotes a total lack of knowledge of the public administration. They mix different administrative situations of public employees as well as their respective implementing regulations; they do not know the structure of the Public Service. With that lack of knowledge, how will you intend to solve this problem? Gentlemen of the UPC, to legislate you have to be like good doctors: you have to know the symptoms to be able to diagnose, choose the best treatment and do not produce side effects. In its imperialist desire we find ourselves in this amendment interventionist terms in relation to the expansionist aspiration of Catalan independence, making concrete proposals for non-existent public workers from the Catalan Countries, the Valencià Country and Les Illes. I stress that they do not exist because they are only part of their delusions, since in Spain there are only autonomous communities, including the Autonomous Community of Catalonia, the Valencian Community and the Balearic Islands. [[Applauds]] Because you are committed to bringing here a product of your imagination and, in addition, you are made up of representatives of autonomous communities in which you are not represented, since you are deputies for the constituency of Barcelona, the capital of the Autonomous Community of Catalonia. Gentlemen, I remind you once again that they are part of the General Courts of the State and we are representatives of all Spaniards. What is clear is that paper endures everything, but what cannot and should not be allowed is the lack of respect and the use of public employees as the object of secessionist and separatist proclamations. But they also lack respect for this House because of the lack of rigour in the content of this amendment as a whole. And if they are so concerned about the situation of public workers, they could start by defending and ensuring the well-being and interest of Catalan public employees of the General Administration of the State in Catalonia, who are suffering the harassment caused by the separatist environment, thus causing the flight of public workers to other places in Spain. It is clear that on such an important issue as the stability of temporary public employment we hope that the Socialist Party Government and We can not try to play again, as it did last July in the validation of the decree-law, with the people concerned, that we do not trade with them, that we do not use them as currency of exchange and auction for other interests in the evil so-called dialogue table. So, gentlemen of the UPC - who are not, but can see the recording later - are still in time to propose amendments to the text of the bill, amendments that are real and that respond to the problem of temporaryity in public employment. Get to know the public administration, propose amendments to the text of the law with real and legal solutions, and with the work of all the groups in this House we will draw up a good law that gives the best answers to all the needs of public jobs. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-23-CD210923.u146	Thank you, Mr. Constenla. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Aceves Galindo has the floor for the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-23-CD210923.u147	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon now. At this last point in the plenary, which is probably so full of questions, I wanted to start by saying that we should focus the debate a little bit, because the truth is that, after listening to all the speakers, a moment has come when I think we didn't know what we were talking about, everyone uses it for their things. It is true that Mrs Vehí has shown us in her speech that all she wanted was to bring this debate to this plenary in Catalan, in the key of Parliament, to see what the Catalan Government, represented here in its Members, was doing there; it has been shown to be what it was looking for. But, as always, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, I want to start once again - I always do so, not when I am interested - by thanking all the public employees in this country for their usual work and that which they have of course done during the pandemic, but all the public employees without distinction, from any autonomous community, to each and every public employee, the more than two and a half million in our country. We are debating an amendment to the whole which, by making a simile, if the House comes to take it into consideration, would be infinitely more harmful to public workers than the text of the bill we are dealing with and which we all have the opportunity to amend in the partial phase, and I will explain why. We are faced with a problem with multiple edges; the temporality in our country does not come from now, ladies and gentlemen, comes from many years ago, with more or less an average of more than 30%, and in the autonomous communities and local corporations at times it has reached 48%. And, of course, the Government has had to make decisions in this case, has had to make decisions that came from the past and has been brave; others have not, others have hidden themselves and have not made decisions. Even the European Union, as you know, has also alerted us to these high rates of temporality. Focusing on the subject, why do I say that by approving this amendment as a whole we are going back to rights and legal certainty? Look, it contains confusions in concepts of employment - it speaks sometimes of a worker and sometimes of an unemployed person -, it confuses with the administrative regime, which causes insurmountable technical and also legal contradictions; it is not clearly reflected the legal formula proposed to carry out the transformation for this intended equality by not conforming to any existing figure in law. But he could have created it; the text could say what formula he uses in law, but it does not indicate it either. In addition, the intended transformation of an interim person as a career officer creates serious constitutional problems and thus creates legal uncertainty. Simply, the judgement of the Constitutional Court 111/2014, on its 5th legal basis, would answer each and every one of the questions I am raising. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I am not going to go on there, because I believe that we are all prepared to understand that - of course, the Socialist Group always acts responsibly and rigorously - we cannot accept this situation. But we also forget something in this matter, which is obviously very important to me. If this text were adopted, what we approved would be out of the question, and I believe that on that day of July I heard everyone agree that the basic Staff Regulations of the Public Employee should be amended so that there would be no such large interinity bag in our country again. That is to say, from now on there can be no public employee who is more than three years of temporaryity, because just in the third year the Administration has to have already sought the formula to summon the opposition or to have consolidated its job. And yet, with that proposal that they make, we would end up with this position, and I think that is a huge responsibility. And, ladies and gentlemen, if the workers were not entitled to any compensation, if the small municipalities would no longer have the cooperation of the provincial parliaments to consolidate their staff and, finally, if they were not allowed to continue the additional provision concerning that within one year teachers and health officials also have the opportunity of regularisation, they would understand that the amendment to the whole cannot be accepted, because it goes against the interests of the workers, much against it. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, in addition to these issues, I would also like to make a comment on what I have heard from other speakers. Mr. Consten, really, I think you, the People's Party has such amnesia... Well, of course, they've been able to destroy computers and a lot more. [[Protests.-Mr. Mateu Istúriz utters words that are not perceived]] Don't worry, man!
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-23-CD210923.u148	Quiet, please. Mr. Mateu Isturiz, silence, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-23-CD210923.u149	In my village they say that the garlic eats... [[Protests.-Applause.]] This text comes from an agreement with the three major trade unions in this country. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, do you now deny social dialogue? Is it as now in my land, in Castile and León, that they want to burden themselves with social dialogue? Also at the country level? This is signed by the three major unions of this country, ladies and gentlemen, by the three. [[Protests.-Mrs.Angolo Romero utters words that are not perceived]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-23-CD210923.u150	Mrs. Angulo, please be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-23-CD210923.u151	In addition, ladies and gentlemen, it comes from a dialogue with the autonomous communities and the Federation of Municipalities and Provinces. And I say to you, when is the People's Party going to come up to this rostrum and clarify what its proposal is? You guys come up here and don't say how you would have done it. They only express themselves against and use other qualifications, but they do not express clearly how they would have accepted it. We have the opportunity now, and from here I am holding my hand on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group to all the parliamentary groups so that, at the stage of amendments between all of us, we try to find agreements, seek consensus and try to solve a problem that affects everyone, because mayors have them of all signs, as presidents of the parliaments and presidents of autonomous communities, especially the People's Party and the Socialist Party, and I think it is not very fair for them to be held accountable for this alone.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-23-CD210923.u152	Mr. Aceves, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-23-CD210923.u153	I'm on my way. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I would like you once and for all to state your position, because you have not yet said so. Of course, we, the hand stretched out, because it is an important issue that we must solve. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-23-CD210923.u154	Thank you very much, Mr. Aceves. Ladies and gentlemen, we vote in five minutes. I remind you that you will only be able to vote from the seat that corresponds to you, identified with your name on the screen. I would also remind you that those Members who have been authorized to vote for the telematics procedure cannot do so from their seats.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-23-CD210923.u155	Ladies and gentlemen, we shall begin the voting. We started with non-law propositions. No legislative proposal by the VOX Parliamentary Group concerning the reprobation and dismissal of the Ministers of Justice and Defence and the Minister of the Presidency, Relations with the Courts and Democratic Memory. It shall be put to the vote on its terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 100 plus 249 telematics votes, 349; in favour, 36 plus 107 telematics votes, 143; against, 64 plus 141 telematics votes, 205; abstentions, 1 telematics vote.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-23-CD210923.u156	The non-legislative proposal is rejected. - the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations (CGE) may in common may-galicia in common, on labour-related measures to be implemented within the framework of recovery, processing and resilience plans. [[File number 162/000814]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-23-CD210923.u157	No law proposal of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, on labour measures to be promoted within the framework of recovery, transformation and resilience plans. We are voting in the terms of the compromise amendment tabled by the Socialist Parliamentary Group and the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in common. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 100 plus 248 telematics votes, 348; in favour, 64 plus 101 telematics votes, 165; against, 36 plus 116 telematics votes, 152; abstentions, 31 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-23-CD210923.u158	The non-legislative proposal was approved.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-23-CD210923.u159	Motions resulting from urgent appeals. Motion for an urgent appeal by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Martínez Oblanca, on the railway policy of the Ministry of Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda in the Principality of Asturias. The vote was taken on the terms resulting from the incorporation of the amendment tabled by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 100 plus 247 telematics votes, 347; in favour, 36 plus 118 telematics votes, 154; against, 64 plus 108 telematics votes, 172; abstentions, 21 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-23-CD210923.u160	The motion for urgent questioning is rejected. - the People's Parliamentary Group at the Conference, to take into account the order of the day and content of the agenda of the so-called mass of the dialogue, as a result of the self-determination, between the Government of Spain and the Generality of Catalonia on 15 September 2021. [[File number 173/000092]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-23-CD210923.u161	Motion following urgent inquiry by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, to report on the agenda and content of the agenda of the so-called "table of dialogue", in reality a table of self-determination, between the Government of Spain and the Generalitat of Catalonia held on 15 September 2021. It shall be put to the vote on its terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 100 plus 247 telematics votes, 347; in favour, 36 plus 115 telematics votes, 151; against, 64 plus 130 telematics votes, 194; abstentions, 2 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-23-CD210923.u162	The motion for urgent questioning is rejected. - the VOX Parliamentary Group, on measures to be taken by the Government to prevent the laundering of hate crimes. [[File number 173/000093]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-23-CD210923.u163	Motion resulting from urgent inquiry by the VOX Parliamentary Group on the measures to be taken by the Government to prevent the trivialization of hate crimes. It shall be put to the vote on its terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes cast, 100 plus 248 telematics votes, 348; in favour, 54 telematics votes; against, 64 plus 133 telematics votes, 197; abstentions, 36 plus 61 telematics votes,97.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-23-CD210923.u164	The motion for urgent questioning is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-23-CD210923.u165	Bill amending Royal Decree-Law 17/2020 of 5 May, approving measures to support the cultural and tax sector to address the economic and social impact of KOVID-19. Separate vote on the amendments. We shall vote on the amendments to Article 2 (1); to Article 2 ter; to the new Article 2 quater; to Article 3; to Article 5 ter; and to the new first final provision. [[new]] [[new]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes cast, 100 plus 243 telematics votes, 343; in favour, 89 telematics votes; against, 64 plus 94 telematics votes, 158; abstentions, 36 plus 60 telematics votes,96.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-23-CD210923.u166	The amendments were rejected. We voted on the amendment to Article 2(2). [[new]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: votes were cast, 100 plus 246 telematics votes, 346; in favour, 36 plus 119 telematics votes, 155; against, 64 plus 103 telematics votes, 167; abstentions, 24 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-23-CD210923.u167	The amendment was rejected. We vote on the amendment to Article 2a [[new]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 100 plus 246 telematics votes, 346; in favour, 36 plus 141 telematics votes, 177; against, 64 plus 96 telematics votes, 160; abstentions, 9 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-23-CD210923.u168	The amendment was adopted. [[Applauds]] Amendment 24, by Senator Gómez Perpinyà, of the Confederal Left Parliamentary Group, to Article 3a [[new]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 100 plus 247 telematics votes, 347; 38 telematics votes; 100 plus 202 telematics votes, 302; abstentions, 7 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-23-CD210923.u169	The amendment was rejected. Amendment 42 of the People's Parliamentary Group in the Senate to article 3 bis [[new]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 100 plus 247 telematics votes, 347; in favour, 17 telematics votes; 64 plus 104 telematics votes, 168; abstentions, 36 plus 126 telematics votes, 162.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-23-CD210923.u170	The amendment was rejected. Amendment to Article 4a [[new]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 100 plus 245 telematics votes, 345; in favour, 35 telematics votes; against, 64 plus 147 telematics votes, 211; abstentions, 36 plus 63 telematics votes, 99.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-23-CD210923.u171	The amendment was rejected. Amendments to Article 5 as regards the amendment to Article 12(5) of Royal Decree-Law 17/2020. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 100 plus 246 telematics votes, 346; in favour, 35 plus 124 telematics votes, 159; against, 65 plus 102 telematics votes, 167; abstentions, 20 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-23-CD210923.u172	The amendments were rejected. Rest of amendments to Article 5. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 100 plus 247 telematics votes, 347; in favour, 100 plus 234 telematics votes, 334; against, 4 telematics votes; abstentions, 9 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-23-CD210923.u173	The amendments were adopted. Amendment to Article 5a [[new]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 100 plus 247 telematics votes, 347; in favour, 64 plus 178 telematics votes, 242; against, 4 telematics votes; abstentions, 36 plus 65 telematics votes, 101.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-23-CD210923.u174	The amendment was adopted. Amendment to Article 6(2). The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes cast, 100 plus 247 telematics votes, 347; in favour, 100 plus 221 telematics votes, 321; against, 1 telematics vote; abstentions, 25 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-23-CD210923.u175	The amendment was adopted. Amendment to Article 6 (2) (a) as regards paragraph one of the new tenth additional provision. [[new]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 100 plus 246 telematics votes, 346; in favour, 36 plus 119 telematics votes, 155; against, 64 plus 97 telematics votes, 161; abstentions, 30 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-23-CD210923.u176	The amendment was rejected. Rest of the amendment to Article 6(2)a [[new]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes cast, 100 plus 247 telematics votes, 347; in favour, 100 plus 214 telematics votes, 314; against, 1 telematics vote; abstentions, 32 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-23-CD210923.u177	The amendment was adopted. Amendments to Article 6(3)a, sub-paragraph 1. [[new]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 100 plus 246 telematics votes, 346; in favour, 36 plus 70 telematics votes, 106; against, 64 plus 103 telematics votes, 167; abstentions, 73 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-23-CD210923.u178	The amendment was rejected. Amendments to Article 6(3a) (2). [[new]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 100 plus 246 telematics votes, 346; in favour, 57 plus 26 telematics votes, 83; against, 7 plus 92 telematics votes, 99; abstentions, 36 plus 128 telematics votes, 164.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-23-CD210923.u179	The amendments were rejected. Amendments to Article 6(4). The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 99 plus 247 telematics votes, 346; in favour, 47 plus 233 telematics votes, 280; against, 51 plus 1 telematics votes, 52; abstentions, 1 plus 13 telematics votes, 14.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-23-CD210923.u180	The amendments were adopted. [[Applauds]] Amendment 27, by Senator Gómez Perpinyà, of the Confederal Left Parliamentary Group, to Article 6(5)a [[new]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 100 plus 246 telematics votes, 346; 84 telematics votes, against 100 plus 150 telematics votes, 250; abstentions, 12 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-23-CD210923.u181	The amendment was rejected. Amendment 60, by the People's Parliamentary Group in the Senate, to Article 6, paragraph 5 bis [[new]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 100 plus 245 telematics votes, 345; 100 plus 232 telematics votes, 332; 4 telematics votes, abstentions, 9 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-23-CD210923.u182	The amendment was adopted. Amendment to Article 6(7), sub-paragraph 1a [[new]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 100 plus 244 telematics votes, 344; 88 telematics votes; 64 plus 93 telematics votes, 157; abstentions, 36 plus 63 telematics votes, 99.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-23-CD210923.u183	The amendment was rejected. Amendments to Article 6(7), subparagraphs two and six [[new]] [[new]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes cast, 100 plus 244 telematics votes, 344; in favour, 85 telematics votes; against, 64 plus 92 telematics votes, 156; abstentions, 36 plus 67 telematics votes, 103.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-23-CD210923.u184	The amendments were rejected. Amendments to Article 6(7), sub-paragraph seven, eight and nine [[before five]] [[before six]] [[before seven.]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 100 plus 244 telematics votes, 344; in favour, 88 telematics votes; against, 64 plus 92 telematics votes, 156; abstentions, 36 plus 64 telematics votes, 100.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-23-CD210923.u185	The amendments were rejected. Amendments to Article 6(8); to Article 6(9) and to Article 6(9). The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 99 plus 245 telematics votes, 344; in favour, 99 plus 231 telematics votes, 330; against, 1 telematics vote; abstentions, 13 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-23-CD210923.u186	The amendments were adopted. Rest of amendments to Article 6. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 100 plus 245 telematics votes, 345; in favour, 100 plus 182 telematics votes, 282; against, 55 telematics votes; abstentions, 8 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-23-CD210923.u187	The amendments were adopted. Amendment to the additional provision [[new]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 100 plus 245 telematics votes, 345; in favour, 100 plus 185 telematics votes, 285; abstentions, 60 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-23-CD210923.u188	The amendment was adopted. Amendments to the derogating provision. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 100 plus 245 telematics votes, 345; in favour, 100 plus 173 telematics votes, 273; against, 51 telematics votes; abstentions, 21 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-23-CD210923.u189	The amendments were adopted. Amendment to final provision 3 [[before unique]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 100 plus 244 telematics votes, 344; in favour, 100 plus 222 telematics votes, 322; against, 13 telematics votes; abstentions, 9 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-23-CD210923.u190	The amendment was adopted. Rest of the amendments. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 100 plus 245 telematics votes, 345; in favour, 100 plus 198, 298; against, 38 telematics votes; abstentions, 9 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-23-CD210923.u191	The amendments were adopted. - DRAFT LAW AMENDING LAW 16/1987 OF 30 JULY ON THE ORDER OF TERRITORIAL TRANSPORT IN THE FIELD OF INFRINGEMENTS RELATING TO DRIVING VEHICLES AND TO COMBATING MOROSITY IN THE FIELD OF CARRIAGE TRANSPORT, AS STANDARDS TO IMPROVE MANAGEMENT IN THE FIELD OF TRANSPORT AND INFRASTRUCTURES. [[File number 121/000047]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-23-CD210923.u192	Draft law amending Act No. 16/1987 of 30 July 1987 on the organisation of land transport in respect of infringements relating to the leasing of vehicles with a driver and to combat delays in the transport of goods by road, as well as rules for improving management in the field of transport and infrastructure. Vote on the amendment. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 100 plus 246 telematics votes, 346; in favour, 36 plus 142 telematics votes, 178; against, 16 telematics votes; abstentions, 64 plus 88 telematics votes, 152.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-23-CD210923.u193	The amendment was adopted. [[Applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-23-CD210923.u194	Commission agreements on reports of subcommittees and presentations. Vote on the report of the subcommittee on the review of the updating of the normative framework and the system of international cooperation for development. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 100 plus 243 telematics votes, 343; in favour, 64 plus 135 telematics votes, 199; against, 36 plus 102 telematics votes, 138; abstentions, 6 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-23-CD210923.u195	The report of the subcommission was adopted.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-23-CD210923.u196	Requests for the creation of commissions of inquiry, at the request of the parliamentary groups Plural, Republican and Euskal Herria Bildu, for the creation of a commission of inquiry to establish the causes of the railway accident of Alvia in Santiago de Compostela on 24 July 2013. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 100 plus 246 telematics votes, 346; 64 plus 138 telematics votes, 202; against 1 telematics vote; abstentions, 36 plus 107 telematics votes, 143.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-23-CD210923.u197	The establishment of the Commission of Inquiry is hereby approved.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-23-CD210923.u198	Discussions on all legislative initiatives. Vote on the amendment to the entire alternative text to the draft law on urgent measures to reduce the temporary nature of public employment, from Royal Decree-Law 14/2021 of 6 July, submitted by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Vehí Cantenys and Mr Botran Pahissa. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 100 plus 245 telematics votes, 345; in favour, 33 telematics votes; against, 100 plus 209 telematics votes, 309; abstentions, 3 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-23-CD210923.u199	The amendment to the whole alternative text was rejected.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-23-CD210923.u200	The plenary of the House has requested the final deliberation and vote of this bill. We shall therefore proceed to vote on that request. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 100 plus 244 telematics votes, 344; in favour, 100 plus 237 telematics votes, 337; against, 6 telematics votes; abstentions, 1 telematics vote.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-23-CD210923.u201	The bill is now before the plenary. Very good afternoon, everyone. The meeting rose. The meeting rose at four and forty minutes in the afternoon.
