ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-02-CD210202.u1	Very good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The meeting was called to order. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, I'm asking for a little silence. Prior to the consideration of the agenda, we shall proceed to the oath or promise of compliance with the Constitution in accordance with Article 20.1.3 of the Rules of Procedure. In place of dona María Pilar Ramallo Vázquez, I ask Don JuanManuel Constenla Carbon if he swears or promises to abide by the Constitution.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-02-CD210202.u2	Yeah, I swear.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-02-CD210202.u3	Don Juan Manuel Constenla Carbon has acquired the full status of MP. Congratulations. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-02-CD210202.u4	We begin with the debate to take into consideration the proposed law of the Galician Parliament, an organic transfer of ownership and competences from the AP-9 motorway to the Galician Autonomous Community. That is why we are joined by three representatives of the Galician Parliament who make up the delegation that will defend the proposal, to whom I welcome the House on behalf of all its Members. For the presentation of the initiative, I have the floor, first of all, Mr Gonzalo Caballero Miguez.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-02-CD210202.u5	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good afternoon, good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. He speaks to them a Galician who uses the AP-9 daily, the fundamental road to communicate five of the seven major Galician cities, which vertebrae three quarters of the population in Galicia and which has one of the highest tolls in Spain; a highway from Tuy to Ferrol, from south to north of Galicia, passing through Vigo, Pontevedra, Santiago and A Coruña, but still today it is more expensive in tolls moving from Vigo to A Coruña stays Vigo to Madrid. A toll of EUR 22.30 per traffic from the south to the north of Galicia is unacceptable, an abusive burden that limits mobility and competitiveness to Galicians and Galicians. Every day the concessionaire collects more than 300 000 euros, about 130 million euros each year. It is a genuine expoliation to the Galicians and to the Galicians, and it is necessary to alleviate it. While other highways of the same time return to the public domain and tolls rise, the Government presided over by José María Aznar decided to extend the concession of the AP-9 until 2048. He extended a business for the private, a robbery to the pockets of the Galicians and the Galicians, a poisoned gift that we continue to pay for. The reduction of AP-9 tolls is a fundamental issue for Galicians and Galicians, especially those with the most economic difficulties, who see how such tolls limit their right to mobility and effective movement across the territory. And that is why I would like to thank the groups that have supported the General Budgets of the State which, in this way, have made possible what is going to be a historic reduction in tolls in the year 2021. Without the General Budgets of the State, which incorporate 63 million euros for bonuses in the AP-9, the partial but substantial reduction of the tolls would not be viable. As I said who was a Member of this House and a reference socialist, Ceferino Díaz, socialism and Galicianism are the two identity traits of the Galician socialists. We defend the reduction of tolls and the transfer of the AP-9 to Galician autonomy. We are the only party of the present who participated in the drafting of the Statute of Autonomy of Galicia, within which it is possible to transfer a motorway that is vital for our communications, as has been done, by the way, with other motorways of state ownership in similar circumstances in other historical nationalities such as Catalonia or the Basque Country. The arguments that attempt to argue against this transfer will come down in the light of the precedents. The position of the Galician socialists is not to break Spain; we do not believe that Spain robs us; we believe in a plural and diverse Spain and we want to strengthen it in its diversity. We do not want to empty the State; we want an efficient, responsible and modern State. We believe in the state of self-government, co-governance and the principle of subsidiarity for the rational management of the AP-9, in which proximity allows the best possible management and therefore we support the transfer to Galicia. The management of AP-9 from nearness is already a historic claim in our community. In the face of those who are now trying to get medals, it should be remembered here that the first claim of the ownership of this motorway for Galicia was the work of then President Emilio Pérez Touriño, and that today it is already a unanimous demand of all the political forces with parliamentary representation in the previous legislature - when this proposal was approved - and also now. While the Aznar Government extended the concession of the highway until 2048 and the Government of Mariano Rajoy continuously vetoed the debate on the transfer of AP-9 in Congress, it is now necessary to advance the reduction of tolls and the transfer of the highway. Two years ago this House opened up to the transfer debate and today we call on all groups to do so again. Castileo said that true heroism is in transforming desires into realities and ideas into deeds. Well, the unanimity of the Galician Parliament on the claim of ownership of the AP-9 is a good example of what represents this infrastructure in our community. Galicia today calls for progress in the transfer of AP-9, which is the best way to comply with a State and a better country. That's the Spain and Galicia we want. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-02-CD210202.u6	Thank you very much, Mr. Knight. To present the initiative, Mrs. Ana Pontón Mondelo has the floor. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-02-CD210202.u7	Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Imagine that they travel by car from Madrid to Vigo; it is 603 kilometers and would pay 13 euros in tolls. Once in Vigo, they decide to go to A Coruña and they have to go yes or yes for the AP-9; they will check when they arrive to A Coruña that they have paid 17 euros. How is it possible that traveling 150 kilometers is more expensive than traveling 600 kilometers? How is it possible that the AP-9, Galicia's main artery, an economic infrastructure fundamental to our economy, is one of the State's most expensive motorways? Every day some 22 000 people use AP-9, every day 22 000 people are victims of a legalized scam that brings billionaires to the dealership but which is fraught with the economy of Galician families and businesses. For an idea to be made, a worker who travels from Santiago to A Coruña twenty-one days a month - and there are thousands - is spent 294 euros on tolls, 16% of the average salary in Galicia. The figures, ladies and gentlemen, speak for themselves. The AP-9 is the only highway of its generation that has the maximum concession, 75 years, up to 2048; the others are free or soon will be. And they'll wonder, how did we get to this? It is obvious that by political decisions. The history of the AP-9 is the chronicle of discrimination with Galicia, the history of a looting that has cost us millions of euros in tolls. Ending discrimination and this scam is behind the transfer request, as a starting point for the AP-9 to become what it always had to be: an infrastructure at the service of the Galicians and the Galicians and not the other way around. But as I said, this is not the result of chance; in 1994 Felipe González and Borrell had the kindness to extend the concession ten years, until 2023; otherwise, eight years ago we could move freely along this highway. In 2000 it was José María Aznar who had the kindness to expand the concession twenty-five more years, and as guinda privatized it at a balance price. The consequence is that we have the most expensive 219 kilometers of highway in the state and the longest concession. In 2019 Itinerary raised 153 million euros, an average of 420,000 euros per day. As you can see, the rates are ruinous for users but they are a manna for the buitre funds owners of this infrastructure. The cost of building the AP-9 is more than amortized with a collection of 3115 million euros since its opening. That is why we in the BNG call for the transfer as a first step to end this historical discrimination. But this transfer must be free of charges; we want an AP-9 rescued, just as the Madrid radials were rescued with billions by the state. It's time to have a Galician AP-9 free of tolls. The BNG believes that this session should be sufficient time for the final approval of the transfer. After forty-one years, seven months and six days paying it is time for the countdown to make this demand come true. And in the meantime, they comply with the political agreements. I use this rostrum to remind the Socialist Party of the investment agreement with the BNG that collected a historical discount from the AP-9 tolls. These reductions are still pending because the Government of the State is failing to fulfil its commitment, not to the BNG but to the Galicians and Galicians. Mr Sánchez is not making the BNG wait, but the thousands of Galicians and Galicians who each day use the AP-9 and who hoped that the Socialist Party would not act like the People's Party. The agreements are to comply with them and President Sánchez is not complying with Galicia. Comply with the signature and stop keeping the Galicians waiting. I shall finish, ladies and gentlemen, by sharing a reflection. The AP-9 is a symbol of two abuses: the first, historical discrimination with our country; we represent the conviction that Galicia has to play another role in the state that recognises its status as a nation. The second, the AP-9 is also a symbol of how the Madrid governments have governed the interests of citizens and for the benefit of multinationals and vulture funds. It's in your hand, ladies, to put an end to these two assaults. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-02-CD210202.u8	Thank you very much, Mrs Ponton. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Finally, as a representative of the Galician Parliament and to present the initiative, I have the floor, Mr Diego Calvo Pouso. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-02-CD210202.u9	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, very good afternoon to you all. As a representative of the Galician Parliament, as a representative of the Galician People's Party, but, above all, as a Galician, I am deeply honoured to be able to defend the interests of our community here today in this rostrum. Today we bring a unanimous demand, which up to three times has been supported by all the groups that we are part of the Galician Parliament; three parties that we made a common cause, a demand from all Galicia, from Galicia united, which transcends and overcomes the ideological differences that we have and the usual discrepancies. It also fits perfectly into the Spanish Constitution and the status of autonomy and makes it an autonomous community that has always been loyal to Spain. I would like you to understand that we Galicians do not intend, before or now, to be a problem for Spain. We do not ask for anything that has not been done before or that would be in keeping with the legal framework of our coexistence. It is simple, we only aim to improve through direct management the relationship between citizens, businesses, territory and this infrastructure that is basic to our community. The AP-9 is the vertebrate axis of Galicia. Everything that happens every day in the AP-9 has an influence on thousands of citizens, thousands of families and thousands of businesses. The planning of the works, the organisation of the staff in the cabs, the maintenance of the firm, the cleaning of the weeds on the margins, the authorizations on roads connecting with the AP-9, all have repercussions on the territory and the Galician society, in particular the tolls. This January, just a few days ago, the AP-9 was for the fourth consecutive year the motorway of Spain which has increased tolls the most; for decisions taken in offices away from Galicia and which do not take into account the impact on citizens. It would be unthinkable for the Xunta de Galicia to decide to extend the AP-9 from the citizens' pockets and not from the budget, as happened in 2011 by the General Administration of the State with Mr Zapatero affront of the Government. It is difficult for the Galician Government to authorize a pact whereby tolls could be raised for twenty years, when we have a report from the Galician Consultative Council on top of the table warning that this agreement is null and void. But it's not time to come back, it's not time to look back, it's time to look forward, to ask for a change, to manage responsibly, with territorial knowledge and also with social responsibility. It is time to remember that the AP-9 is the patrimony of the Galicians, which is not the heritage of a concessionaire, of a private society that makes use of its rights, but also its interests, relentlessly. In the interests of the concessionaire today, three years later, there are many agreements that have not been concluded. The toll on Redondela has not risen and it was a commitment. In January, tolls and bonuses have risen again, and we know nothing, even though these promises were included in the State's General Budgets. Look at the trip between A Coruña and Vigo - I repeat, three euros more expensive - than two years ago, when the initiative was last debated in this Parliament. At that time the convulsive political landscape - it is true that in Galicia it is much more stable and with a strengthened majority, everything has to be said - made it impossible for the initiative to prosper. Today we ask once again for the transfer, ladies and gentlemen, with an integrative feeling, in order to unite and not to separate and never to attack the Government, even if some Member does not believe it. Today we come to make a more rational and fairer management. The Xunta can manage the AP-9 more efficiently than the State, the Xunta knows the territory and is closer to the needs of users. The Xunta does not agree that the toll is increased, especially when in other areas of Spain the toll is reduced or disappears. That is why this transfer is fairer than ever with Galicia and the Galicians. It is a vital infrastructure for Galicia, five of the seven major cities we have in Galicia, where 70% of the population and 80% of economic activity are located. It has no State consideration, does not connect airports or ports of general interest of the State or even reaches the border, but that state ownership often causes works that affect AP-9 to suffer very large delays. I'm done. The transfer of the AP-9 is an initiative with a long journey, too long I would say, and taking advantage that this year 2021 is Holy Year Xacobeo, let me tell you that the Galicians on the way know a lot. I am convinced that this time we will reach the end of the road and that among all of us we will make it a reality. I would like to thank you in advance for the vote in favour of all the groups that have expressed it before this plenary session and to wish them, in this Holy Year, a good path for all. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-02-CD210202.u10	Thank you very much, Mr. Calvo. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] The House's parliamentary groups are now taking part. In the course of fixing positions, I have the floor, first of all, for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Muñoz Vidal.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-02-CD210202.u11	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Once again in this House we address an important issue such as infrastructure, which is fundamental for Spain, also for any country because it is a strategic issue. A strategic issue that has to be treated as such and not as a political weapon, a party weapon, a currency of change for political support. However, in Spanish politics we are used to using infrastructures as a conglomerate of electoral favors and calculations. Look, my parliamentary group, Citizens, comes to this House and to this debate with many doubts about this proposed law, in particular three; doubts that first of all already arise in the very explanatory statement of the proposed law because, look, it is pointed out that the AP-9 circulates entirely through Galicia, which is certain, but they do not say that it serves in turn as a connection with Portugal, which makes it a strategic way, a way of general interest in the State. Furthermore, this motorway, ladies and gentlemen, has also been considered an itinerary of European interest. Why don't you talk about this in the explanatory statement? We may be able to find out and find out personally during this debate. The second question arises when we see both the Group of the European People's Party and the Socialist Group exchanging their views on this matter according to the political moment at which we meet or the opportunity before us. Today both of you will come here - your representatives have already done so in the Galician House - to tell us that this transfer is irrefutable for Galicia, but the truth is that you have not always thought so, ladies and gentlemen. The PSOE will say this because it has signed an agreement with the BNG that included this infrastructure in exchange for support for Mr Sánchez's investiture, which Mrs Ponton recalled; and the PP will say this because today there is no longer Minister De la Serna occupying the portfolio of Fomento; that is, as the Minister De la Serna is no longer in the Chamber. Because, gentlemen of the PP, there is a news - you can see - in El faro de Vigo, dated 31 July 2017, with Minister De la Serna and President Feijóo, in which Minister De la Serna denies the transfer of the AP-9 three days after the approval of the proposal in the Galician Parliament. Tell us now whether that insurmountable cost of what Minister De la Serna was talking about when he was in government has already disappeared or is another example of the classic and irritating strategy of both the PP and the PSOE to promise in opposition what they refused to do when they were in government. And the third question we are being asked is that this proposal does not refer to who is going to pay the cost of the modifications to the economic and financial system of the concession. Will the Galician Junta do it? With what budget? You speak as if the budget, this matter of vital importance, did not matter to you and is one of the main issues in this debate. Three doubts raise this debate, but neither in this bill nor anyone in this rostrum has told the Galicians the truth, and it is that the transfer of State ownership to the Fifth of Galicia of the AP-9 does not imply that it is necessary to reduce the toll per se if there is no revision of the concession contract; a revision that can be carried out regardless of who is the owner of this motorway. This proposal for a law is passed or not, a revision of the concession contract may be made. Therefore, we are not talking so much about the expoliation - as has been said here - to the Galicians, but about who puts the medal, about that aggravation compared to the rest of the autonomy, about that historical discrimination, about the fraud or the abuse of the Galicians or about a question of justice, as has been said here a few minutes ago. Do you know our position on infrastructure? This spokesman for Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda repeats every opportunity he has; the position of Citizens is to consider today more necessary than ever a national pact for infrastructures that avoids situations like this. We cannot play the good cop or the bad cop on such serious issues, we cannot play to exchange roles depending on the situation and the moment or who is in the Government on every occasion; this game that has taken place for forty years that explains the waste and underutilized infrastructure of our country. As I told you before, ownership has nothing to do with tolls. If the Xunta really wanted to lower the tolls for the users, it could have negotiated with the Spanish Government and agreed to assume part of the cost of the toll. Or, for his part, if Mr Ábalos wanted this not to be the way with the highest tolls in all of Spain, he could have changed the terms of the contract, as is done on many occasions. Therefore, this proposal for a law, without any other action, is not going to imply anything new and may be a disappointment to the Galicians. This bill, without any additional action, does not lower tolls, does not reduce the cost of operating the infrastructure and much less rescues the concession. We will support the consideration of this bill because it received unanimity from the whole of the Galician Parliament, but I would like to tell you that we will be very vigilant during its proceedings so that this change of title does not cost the Spaniards any more money. Ladies and gentlemen, we continue to believe that AP-9 is a way of general interest, we continue to be in favour of co-responsibility in the planning and cost of infrastructure and we continue to be against electoralism with investments. In Citizens we will continue to bet on a common infrastructure policy that treats all citizens equally and that makes no distinctions between Spaniards depending on whether or not the political force that demands it. This is the solution we propose: a national infrastructure pact, and we will continue to work for it. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-02-CD210202.u12	Thank you, Mrs. Muñoz. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Rego Candaimil has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-02-CD210202.u13	Thank you, Madam President. Before more, I would like to welcome the reprehensibility that today accompanies us from the Parliament of Galicia: Diego Calvo, of the People's Party; Gonzalo Caballero, of the Socialist Party, and the national spokesman of the BNG, compañera Ana Pontón. Today we are going to take an important step to put an end to a situation of expoliation - yes, of expoliation - and of discrimination in infrastructure in Galicia. The AP-9, as a result of the decisions of successive Spanish governments of one sign or another, has eventually become one of the most expensive motorways in the Spanish State and one of the few long-term concessions. At this time there are only three with 75-year-old periods, two of them, by the way, in Galicia, because, in addition to the AP-9, there is also the AP-53, between Santiago and Lalin. Thus, while most of the highways on the state network complete the concession and become toll-free in the period 2018-2022, the AP-9, which would initially have completed the concessional period in 2013, will, if not remedied, be subject to concession until the year 2048. This is due to two extensions. The first, of ten years, carried out by the Government of Felipe González, until 2023, and the second, made by the Government of Aznar, of twenty-five years more, in both cases directly, without competition and for works that would in no way justify such abusive enlargements. Let us think that the extension of the concession made in 2000 was justified in order to compensate for the construction of a section of eight kilometers without toll between Fene and Ferrol and partially the circle of Vigo. That is, twenty-five years of extension for eight or ten kilometers, a gift to the dealership. What rigour can technical and economic reports have to justify such barbarity? The problem is that since then we have been paying for all Galicians and Galicians. Expoliation, therefore, and discrimination. Let's see. Beyond the rescue of the Madrid radials, to which my partner Ana Pontón already referred, last year the Ministry of Transport announced that it assumed from the General Budgets of the State the extension of the Centennial Bridge, in Seville, in the SE-30, but directly linked to the A-4, for an amount of 102 million euros. It seems good to us, but the extension of the Rande Bridge, in the AP-9, on the Vigo River, was imputed to the rates and, therefore, weighs on the users of Galician users for twenty years. It is not fair, because these repeated policies for twenty-four years, which led to excessive and unjustified tolls on a motorway rather than amortized, suppose a ballast for the development of Galicia and our economy. It should be remembered that the AP-9 articulates the whole Atlantic axis of our country, on which five of the seven most important cities, three airports, five ports of general interest and the majority of fishermen, 70% of the population and most of Galicia's economic activity are located. There are many workers who have to use this route of communication on a daily basis because of the absence of an effective road alternative, for which tolls represent a real loss of their income, and also many companies located on the Galician Atlantic axis for which tariffs represent an insurmountable cost in their production costs, which hampers their competitiveness. Let's just think that a heavy vehicle from any producer or logistics company will have to pay for a journey between Ferrol and Tui, round trip, almost 100 euros; exactly, 97.5 euros. The consequence is that most self-employed people and small and medium-sized enterprises avoid using the AP-9, saturating inadequate and massively populated conventional roads - you only have to know the scattered habitat of Galicia -, increasing traffic problems, but also the risk of serious accidents. And we ask ourselves: has the State Administration ever evaluated the human, social, health and environmental costs that this entails? All these are more than sufficient reasons for Galicia to have a broad social consensus on the need for the AP9 to be rescued for public management, freed from tolls and managed in our country with criteria of social and environmental interest. It is an objective that the BNG has been promoting for many years, both at social and institutional level, under the slogan 'AP9 galega and sans paxes'. The result of this effort and the social impulse are the legislative proposals of the Galician Parliament which, unfortunately, for a long time, clashed with the Bureau of this House and with the veto of the government of Mariano Rajoy, until in 2018 it was admitted to procedure. Unfortunately, political vicissitudes did not allow this process to be concluded, but we hope that it will be possible on this occasion. In any case, the BNG, without renouncing that objective of a public Atlantic highway in Galicia and without paxes, continued to work to mitigate the economic impact of tariffs. Consequently, the investment agreement between the BNG and the Socialist Party collected measures which were in their day very well valued by Galician society but which are still awaiting implementation. Among them, this is the transfer that we are now dealing with, but in addition - and citotextually - at least the 100 percent bonus of the toll for recurrent users, both private and professional, every day of the week running the cost of the bonus charged by the General Budgets of the State, the gratuity of the Vigo Redondela stretch and also assume the 1% increase per year corresponding to the conventions of 2011 and 2013. They are all necessary measures which, moreover, have budgetary support, so it does not feel that the Government, instead of announcing that 1 January was beginning to apply, announces to us a new increase in tariffs which causes the tolls of the AP9 to be the highest in the whole of the Spanish State, 0.92% for the fourth consecutive year. This is even more serious if we take into account that, with the exception of two others - the AP6 and the AP7 - all other motorways in the Spanish State dropped the tolls by 0.08% to 0.11%. There are no objective reasons for the Government to continue to delay the implementation of these discounts and rebates, so that every day that goes by without applying them affects the credibility of the Government in fulfilling its commitments and harms all Galicians and Galicians. That is why the BNG will stand firm in its claim for its immediate application in the awareness that in this we have the entire Galician society behind us. Today, in any case, we hope to take a significant step in the right direction by moving towards the definitive transfer of the AP9 to Galicia. It's justice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-02-CD210202.u14	Thank you very much, Mr. Rego. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, I have the floor, Mr GómezReino Varela.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-02-CD210202.u15	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon and good afternoon also and a greeting to the representatives of the Galician Parliament who are accompanying us here today. Today is an important day for Galicia. After many years of demands, of a huge indignation in Galicia over the situation of the AP9, after years of shamefully enlarged concessions, after years of blocking the People's Party to the debate on this bill in this House, today we are finally going to debate and, if everything goes as it seems, to initiate the process for the transfer of a fundamental and basic infrastructure to Galicia as is the AP9. We are here to discuss an issue which in Galicia, as has already been said, generates total unanimity on the part of all Galicians, of all the political parties in our country and, in addition, of all the social sectors. It is something simple that anyone can understand: Galicia's main communication axis, which communicates five of our cities, 70% of the population, has to be managed from Galicia. Recapitulating, it has been a long and tortuous path. Firstly - and we must insist on this even though it has already been mentioned here - two enlargements of concessions with central governments, the last of Mr Aznar, of the People's Party, who mortgaged us and tried to shield the PA-9 scam until 2048. Secondly, years of blockages to the debate on this initiative in this House, blockages by the People's Party and also by citizens when they had a majority in the Bureau of this House. It must be remembered here today that it was this parliamentary group that brought to the Constitutional Court an initiative to call for amparo in the face of this systematic blockade by the People's Party and its right-wing partners. Finally, with the arrival of a progressive government, the coalition government, they have begun to see the first and indispensable steps to begin to solve this aggravation of the AP-9. On the one hand, the unblocking of the debate on the initiative and, on the other, the budgetary commitment to Galicia, which, through bonuses, will greatly alleviate the day-to-day lives of thousands of Galicians and Galicians, users, transporters and families moving through the AP-9. So we are here today to discuss, at last, whether the AP-9 is Galician or not, and I think the data is obvious: the AP-9 is a infrastructure located from north to south entirely in Galicia, connects five cities, more than 70% of our population. I believe that these are exactly the conditions for being able to apply articles 148 and 150 of the Constitution and article 27 of the Galician Autonomy Statute. Secondly, once we get this transfer and now that we also have by way of bonus of the General Budgets of the State an aid for the day-to-day people moving through the AP-9, we have to address something that is fundamental: in addition to being Galician, the set of administrations we have to work to make the AP-9 public again. We are talking about an infrastructure that is an anomaly and an unnecessary aggravation, with which we have to end once and for all. How can it be, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, that these years the concessions of the AP-1, AP-2, AP-4, AP-7, AP-68 and for the AP-9 have to wait until the year 2048? How could it be tolerated that other toll freeways have been for twenty-five, thirty or twenty years and that the AP-9 will be for almost seventy-five years? Toll freeways are going to be an anomaly in the Spanish state and we must remember that. What does this anomaly translate into in the case of AP-9? In which millions of users, citizens, give huge benefits to investment funds and vulture funds. The case is that, once the transfer is advanced, today we are giving this important first step at a time when not only in this area, but in general, there is no doubt that the citizen consensus on the importance of key sectors of the economy, the energy sector, the infrastructure sector, the pharmaceutical sector as well, is going through the public filter. We must all work to ensure that a strategic infrastructure such as AP-9, for its role as an instrument of development, economic dynamism in Galicia, international connection, social inclusion and vertebration, is recovered for public control. Today the road begins, a path that we hope will not truncate, by the way, the Government of the Xunta of Galicia, of the People's Party. It must be remembered that this, if carried out, will be the first transfer in thirteen years. It is a path that passes through the transfer of the AP-9 and, secondly, why the whole of the administrations involved we open the debate and assume the rescue of the AP-9 for the public, in order to stop it from benefiting the private. Therefore, AP-9 galega and, in addition to galega, public and free. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-02-CD210202.u16	Thank you very much, Mr. Gómez-Reino. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Contreras Peláez has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-02-CD210202.u17	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I announce our group's vote against the motion for a law. The pilgrim - or perhaps not so pilgrim - is given the circumstance that this proposed law gives effect to point 4 of the investment agreement between the Socialist Party and the Gallego Nationalist Block, signed on 3 January 2020, which referred precisely to the transfer of ownership of the AP-9 motorway. We are opposed not only by a general principle of rejection of the constant increase in the power of the autonomous taifas or of rejection of the transfer, without recompense, of a valuable asset of the State, but we are also opposed because we believe that this transfer can result in very serious financial obligations for the suffering state arks. I refer to Article 1.3 of the proposal for a law, which states that the General Administration of the State shall retain in its charge, with respect to the concessionary company of the AP-9 motorway, the obligations with economic and financial repercussions arising from the application of the concession in force. In 2011, the State signed with the concessionaire Audasa an agreement under which the concessionaire undertook to extend the motorway in the Santiago area, in the Rande Bridge, etc., and in return would be allowed to raise the amount of tolls by 1% per year for 20 cumulative years. However, as Article 1.2(d) of the proposal confers on the Autonomous Government the power to modify the economic regime of the concession, what is to be expected is that the Galician Government will effectively reduce the tolls, but the State will have an obligation to compensate the concessionaire for the economic damage suffered. In other words, what will happen is that Mr Núñez Feijóo will be able to hang his populist toll-reducing medal at the expense of the pockets of all Spaniards. By the way, the Rajoy Government has twice vetoed the transfer that we are discussing today, claiming considerations of this kind, considerations of budgetary balance, which, if already valid at that time, are now much more so, at a time when we are looking at a catastrophic deficit of 14% by 2020. Therefore, we should ask Mr Casado whether he agrees with Mr Rajoy of 2016 and 2018 or if he agrees with Mr Núñez Feijóo of 2021, which is in agreement with Pedro Sánchez and the Gallego Nationalist Block. But why does the Galician Government want the ownership of this motorway? Is it because you think that by magic art you're going to lower the tolls or you're going to manage it better? We don't think this is it. We believe that it does not want to be any less than the Basque Government which, since 2019, and by leaving the Government of the nation, possesses the competences on all roads in Basque territory, including the AP-1 and AP-8, motorways that reach the border, link with French motorways and, therefore, do not seem subsumable in Article 148.1.5.a; that is, the road with possible autonomous ownership. We think that this is a case that illustrates very well what we could call the perverse logic of the state of autonomy; a logic by which autonomy feels obliged to demand more and more competences to justify its own existence and not to be less than the others. It is the spirit of the Camps clause of the Valencian Statute. [[Applauds]] In this process, the State is being deprived of the essential minimum powers to ensure national cohesion, unity of the internal market and equal rights among all Spaniards. The constitutional wound through which this constant bleeding of state powers occurs is article 150.2 of the Constitution, a tautological article which states that those powers which by their very nature are susceptible to transfer can be transferred; that is, the transferable is transferable. It is the law of the funnel and it closes a one-way mechanism that always operates in the same direction, the state loses competences, autonomy wins them, and that one-wayness has ended up being established in our subconscious as prejudice according to which the just, the natural thing, is that the state loses more and more power and autonomy gains more and more power, and those who dare to propose the opposite are called fascists. In VOX we think that the state of autonomy has failed, it is an expensive, heavy state - we have gone from 800 000 civil servants in 1978 to more than 3 million at the moment - it is an inefficient state, as we are dramatically proving in the current crisis, and it is a state that is destroying solidarity between the Spanish regions, as was proven at the time with the impossibility of approving a reasonable national hydrological plan. All this was done, the State of Autonomy was asked to try to definitively integrate the nationalists into our constitutional system. Well, today the exact opposite has been achieved: nationalists are less integrated than ever before, have been disloyal in the exercise of autonomous competences, have used them - especially educational and media-related ones - to indoctrinate their population into hatred of Spain and a falsified version of our common history. [[Applauds]] Spain is the only country in the world in much of whose territory a child cannot receive education in the official language of the State, and all this, by the way, is also happening in Galicia. Repeated complaints from the Association We speak Spanish indicate that only subjects of lower linguistic value - as it were - are taught in Spanish, such as Mathematics, Physics or Chemistry. The Galician Autonomous Government has copied all ideological left-wing legislation, from gender-based violence laws to sexual indoctrination laws in schools, and has also copied the media propaganda apparatus of Catalan nationalists; I refer to the Galicia Radio and Television Corporation, with its four television channels, three radio channels and a budget of €107 million in 2019.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-02-CD210202.u18	Mr. Contreras, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-02-CD210202.u19	We will not favour the nationalism of Nuñez Feijóo with new concessions. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. [[Prolonged applause by the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, on the ground]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-02-CD210202.u20	Thank you very much, Mr. Contreras. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Delgado Arce has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-02-CD210202.u21	Ladies and gentlemen who make up the delegation of the Galician Parliament, welcome to the Congress of Deputies. Good afternoon, everyone. Ladies and gentlemen, I announce that the People's Parliamentary Group is going to vote in favour of taking into consideration this proposal for an organic law of the Galician Parliament to transfer ownership and powers of the AP-9, and that I will do so for a number of reasons, which I will list below. Firstly, by supporting a unanimous request from the Galician Parliament, in which the People's Party is the first political force at the will of the voters, who revalidated their confidence for the fourth time just a few days ago, in July. Secondly, for consistency with our affirmative vote. On December 11, 2018, the speaker also spoke to you in this rostrum defended the affirmative vote to consider a proposed law of the Galician Parliament which was practically similar to this one, with some slight modification, and which fell due to the early convening of the elections. And it is that actually the transfer of the AP-9 to the Autonomous Community of Galicia is not a new fact but is a unanimous demand of the Galician Parliament, repeated already on three occasions, in the years 2016, 2017 and 2018. It has been said here, and I ratify it, that AP-9 is the main channel of communication from Galicia, a vertebra from north to south of our autonomous community, where 60% of the population lives in that Atlantic strip, unites five cities from the seven major cities and around it almost all the important roads of the autonomous road network are articulated. It is true that this motorway only circulates in the territory of the autonomous community, does not enter neighbouring autonomous communities, nor does it connect with Portugal because in Portugal it enters through another toll-free highway, which is the A-55, and neither does it connect any port and airport of general interest. Ladies and gentlemen, this proposal for organic law in the current context is more necessary and more timely than ever. In recent years, it has also been said here, the evolution of toll freeways in Spain has been very different. In some territories, tolls have disappeared at the end of the concession; in others, they have been considerably reduced as a result of the State's rescue of concessions or simply, as in this year, they have barely risen, even dropped as a result of the negative evolution of the CPI. But what about the AP-9 motorway? It has been experiencing in a short space of time extraordinary increases in rates and exponential increases, which will be repeated further in the coming years. The concessionaire Audasa maintains unorthodox tolls, which limit access to this route to people with fewer resources, who waste the family savings, as has been said here, and the competitiveness of the economic sectors, especially the transport sector, and these tolls in Spain have continued to rise since 2001 and, of the three motorway tolls that have risen, the most, that of the AP-9. Ladies and gentlemen, the State General Budgets for the year 2021, recently approved and which entered this House in October, foresee 55 million euros for certain actions on this motorway: 1.53 million for the free toll from Vigo to Redondela, the most expensive toll of the entire AP-9, being announced its release in 2017 by Minister De la Serna, then postponed by Minister Ábalos and now there are 1.53 million and this measure has not yet been launched, which should have been in operation earlier this year, as well as the necessary works to be done in Redondela as a result of the works of the motorway. There are also 3.40 million in the budgets to abolish the cumulative annual increase of 1% of the tolls for 20 years and also with an interest of 8% fixed annually as a result of the cost of the works, an increase that, as has been said here, is due to a real decree of November 2011 by the Government of Don José Luis Rodríguez Zapatero, on the eve of a general election, which was then added by another Royal decree of 28 October 2018. By the way, it has been said here and I repeat: the Galician Advisory Council has ruled that these royal decrees are null and void, as well as the consequences arising from their application. Finally, there are 50 million euros that are planned for bonuses for frequent users' tolls, which are thousands and thousands and thousands of people. This climb, by the way, is additional to the gratuitousness of the tolls that already operate for the journeys back in the day between Vigo and Pontevedra and that supports the ministry thanks to the setting up since 2013 by the former minister of Fomento, dona Ana Pastor. Ladies and gentlemen, this proposal for an organic law is based on absolute respect for legality, the Spanish Constitution and the status of autonomy, and I say this for those who are filled with the mouth of the Constitution and of Spain and who are unable to enforce the rules that we have all given ourselves. [[Applauds]] Article 148 of the Spanish Constitution sets out the possibility of road transfers, the itinerary of which is developed entirely in the territory of the Autonomous Community, and this is the case, and according to Article 150.2 it will be transferred by means of an organic law. The Galician Autonomy Statute, as an organic law and as important as many other laws that exist in the Spanish legal system, provides for the possibility of competition in roads that are in the territory of the autonomous community and in those which, being part of the state network, are the subject of transfer, as stated in article 27.32. Ladies and gentlemen, with the consideration of this proposal for an organic law, it only ends a first procedure, the legislative procedure, but then comes the most important once it has been proved, which is the negotiation of the transfer, negotiation which, as perfectly stated in Article 2 of this proposal for an organic law, must be implemented by agreement of the Joint Commission for Transfers State-Xunta of Galicia and the corresponding royal decree of transfer of services. We aspire to a direct management of the highway. The autonomous communities, the ones that we believe in the Constitution, the ones that we believe in the State of Autonomy, which we are outraged at being called taifas to our autonomous communities and the lack of respect for our autonomous governments, we say that we want a State in which we are all loyal, in which we all live under the same umbrella, but in which autonomy is respected, management is respected and greater solidarity is sought among all regions. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, we are going to vote wholeheartedly for this proposal for organic law. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-02-CD210202.u22	Thank you very much, Mr. Delgado. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, Mr Meijón Couselo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-02-CD210202.u23	Thank you, President. 'We were saying yesterday...': this phrase attributed to Brother Luis de León might well serve to begin this intervention, since just over two years ago a similar law was discussed in this House. [[Continue your speech in Galician]] Undebat that occurred after several vetoes of the People's Party Government to prevent it. In fact, in the year and a half the Rajoy government vetoed three times, with the consent of Mrs Pastor, that the transfer of the AP-9 could even be dealt with in this House, an impediment that ceased from the very first moment that Pedro Sánchez was appointed president of the government, and proof of this was the debate that could be held on this issue on December 11, 2018. [[Applauds]] Aborigine was possible; three times. A debate that won the House's majority vote in favour of taking into consideration the proposed law of the Galician Parliament, except for that of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, which now seems to have changed its mind, but which could not complete its journey because of the dissolution of the Chambers. Well, today we take up with satisfaction the action on its paralyzed day and it is a matter of pride that we can return to this plenary room to discuss latoma in consideration of this point. Let me repeat part of my speech of that year 2018, since there are reasons that do not change. He then said that for Galicia, for Galicians and Galicians, the Atlantic Highway is not just any motorway, that the Atlantic Highway is our Main Street, a daily, frequent and multi-faceted road linking the most populated areas of Galicia, a road that affects our daily mobility because there is no real possibility in many sections should be a reasonable alternative, either because of the state of the secondary roads, or because of the broad rodeos, in some cases truly broad, that should be given, and the times that this means. Its preferred use is not to leave bridges, not for vacation use or for long and rare trips; on the contrary, it is the way that workers and companies use daily, and the one that interrelates our cities in all areas of the day-to-day. Let us not forget, as was said here, that it unites five of the seven major cities through an urban continuum that is the hallmark of the house. Therefore, more than the emphasis on the ownership of this path - which also - we are extremely concerned about the objective of people's mobility,mobility that we do not intend to contemplate from the perspective of privilege, but from the perspective of the balance and sustainability of our road system: criteria of equity, criteria of justice. The criteria of equity and the criteria of justice were abruptly shattered when in 2000 the Aznar Government approved the extension of the concession until 2048, with a high level of tolls, which are undoubtedly - as my colleagues in the Galician Parliament recalled - an insurmountable burden for families and businesses. And all this when it was promised - the phrase of Mr Rajoy still resounds through the networks - the suppression of the tolls in that election campaign in which Aznar won. If we hadn't been there, we would be talking about a very different scenario, with a concession that would end in 2023, and there would only be two years left to complete the concession. The Royal Spanish Academy defines the word aggravation as unequal treatment of persons who have or believe that they have the same right to something in a given situation. The spokesmen who have preceded me in the use of the word have given good proof with their data that this really is so. This is also acknowledged by the current Minister of Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda, Mr Ábalos, when he stated a few months ago that the Government reiterates its commitment to eliminate the aggravation that many Galicians suffer from with the AP-9; a commitment that did not remain in words, but took shape in the General Budgets of the State: more than 60 million to reduce bonuses in the AP-9 sections. These bonuses, the words of the Secretary of State, Sergio Vázquez, are designed to accompany the entire concession until the year 2048 and the sooner it will become reality, as well as the gratuitousness in the roundabout. That is not something that can be done overnight, and you all know that this is so. And yes, it is true that the bonuses are contained in the government agreement, but I will remind you one thing, the Socialists never agreed anything that is not consistent with our programmatic principles. As we would say in Galician - laugh -. [[Laughs and applause.-Pronounce words in Galician]] [[Applauds]] Therefore, if there is an agreement to improve and reduce tolls, it is because they were already included in the commitments of the PSOE. [[Continue your speech in Galician]] But already with Emilio Pérez Touriño as president, the transfer of AP-9 to Galicia was claimed. After what I have heard, the truth is that it is paradoxical for me that those who tabled amendments to the budgets in full in order to bring them down, are now those who intend to direct the budgets, those who intend to implement them; it is precisely those who wanted to bring down the increase in pensions, those who did not support the recommendations of the Toledo Pact, those who did not support the Reconstruction Commission, those who did not support the historical increases in health, education, vaccines, scholarships, as if all this had nothing to do with Galicia. [[applause]] [[applause]] Those who did not support it know that, on the 2018 budgets - discounting the AVE - there is an increase in investments in Galicia of 300 million euros, 62%, and in years of crisis and pandemic. - Yes, Mr. Rego, do the math. And they're the ones who didn't support the 60 million game to boost the AP-9 tolls. Ladies and gentlemen, we are aware that what we are discussing here today is taking account of this proposal for a law, which means that we have arduous hours of work ahead of us, in which we hope that consensus and agreement will be imposed in order to bring to fruition the end pursued, which is the transfer of AP-9 to the Xunta de Galicia. This is the desire of the majority of Galician citizens and this is what is expected of all of us. Times are near; let us hope so. Nothing else. Kiss. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-02-CD210202.u24	Thank you very much, Mr Meijón. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-02-CD210202.u25	We move on to the agenda item on non-legislative proposals. We begin with the non-legislative proposal of the Socialist Parliamentary Group on the creation of a road map for knowledge transfer. Mr Alfonso Cendón has the floor for the presentation of the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-02-CD210202.u26	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, today the Socialist Group is bringing forward a non-legislative proposal to establish a roadmap for the transfer of knowledge. Spain needs to improve on innovation; we need to make R & D+i one of the fundamental pillars of our welfare state and our productive model. The current academic-scientific connection with business is insufficient; there is a significant gap between public investment and private investment in R & D+i. It is clear that much work remains to be done to ensure that our productive fabric and the competitiveness of Spanish companies reach the most leading countries in this area. Spain is the tenth country in the world in scientific publications, in high-impact journals; however, we occupy around the thirtyth position in innovative publications, in global innovation ravines. We must be aware that there is no science applied basic science, so we must continue to support with determination research in universities, in IPOs and in technological centres, but to enhance more if the weight of the transfer of knowledge and the advancement of academic and research careers can be gained. We need the knowledge generated in our country to be transferred to society in order to provide innovative solutions, generate new products and services and improve the competitiveness of our companies by creating quality jobs and improving our well-being. As you all know, industrial policy is in the Socialist Party's DNA, so we advocate that we stop seeing the state as a strictly bureaucratic body that slows down innovation. That is why we must change our outlook, start to assess the risks and advantages of the State assuming an entrepreneurial and proactive role in science, also as a productive element. In fact, we believe that the State should not innovate only when there are market failures, but should be an active player in creating a more sustainable, inclusive, social and equitable world. Scientific and research training seeks to demonstrate with practical examples the real application of knowledge, especially in scientific subjects, but there comes a time when such an important link breaks and does so against our interests. As studies intensify and specialize in a field, we no longer find the obvious relationship that research and innovation have with our welfare state. Moreover, these synergies also do not exist significantly in the business world; we hardly have examples of investment and knowledge from the scientific business world or vice versa, and that is a problem for our country. On a large scale, we understand that our scientists, our researchers, are working to find answers to the problems of our world, they are constantly studying formulas to improve it; however, it is difficult for us to introduce their results into the markets quickly and effectively. In relation to this, the survey of indicators of knowledge transfer developed by the Ministry of Science and Innovation in 2017 revealed that of the total number of patentees requested by universities, OPIs and technology centres only 48 % had some type of co-ownership and, of these, only 28 % were companies, most of which were small enterprises with little economic muscle to carry out large projects or very important investments. Public-private collaboration is particularly affected by the composition of our productive fabric, mainly SMEs and micro SMEs, which are not very intensive, especially in technological skills. The results of R & D+i projects in the form of products, services or intellectual property, as well as other forms of knowledge, such as human resources, know-how, value chains or open innovation forums, must be achieved from the academic-scientific to the productive fabric. In short, what the Socialist Parliamentary Group intends with this initiative is to improve the incentives to promote the transfer of knowledge in our country, to increase financing for business innovation and thus to encourage the creation of innovative and emerging companies or startups. Also, and no less important, it seeks to facilitate the incorporation of researchers into the private sector, the realization of doctoral dissertations in companies and to continue promoting innovative public procurement programmes. In addition, we must amend the Science Act, integrating and updating elements contained in other laws into a single body of legislation and including mechanisms that support the need for researchers to be motivated to transfer knowledge, as well as improving systems for monitoring and evaluating such transfer in accordance with international standards. We need to continue to boost projects that require a public-private collaboration component, with calls such as Missions or the Cervera programme, which are very important for the transfer of knowledge, and which are a unique and pioneering initiative in Spain in support of business R & D. At this point, I imagine you are already convinced of the need to improve the training of experts working in knowledge transfer offices, incorporating the market dimension and facilitating the arrival of knowledge generated by society. We must create common spaces in which the dividing line between research centres and the productive fabric is more flexible and permeable, and it is necessary to enable a transfer risk capital fund to assist the creation of technology-based enterprises. In short, ladies and gentlemen, it is in our hands to promote ambition for R & D & I, cooperation between academia and business, offering opportunities to large innovative companies, which will accommodate projects led by SMEs. Today we have the opportunity to abandon the policies that have wasted so many years on science and innovation in our country. Let us continue with the momentum marked by this progressive coalition government, with general historical budgets, historical in science, with an increase of more than 59% in non-financial items dedicated to R & D+i, which break and leave behind the era of the Popular Party of Mariano Rajoy, in which there was an unprecedented decline in investment in R & D+i and which drove us away from the European average, when we had reached our historical peak of 1.4% of GDP in investment in R & D+i at the Zapatero government stage. Ladies and gentlemen, the Socialist Parliamentary Group is reaching out to them to reach a great deal for science and innovation, to reach a pact for science in our country. This GNP is a good time to establish that base. Do not forget that the decisions we make today will depend on the future of our country, the improvement of our productive model and our welfare state. Ladies and gentlemen, bet on science and innovation; we all win. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-02-CD210202.u27	Thank you very much, Mr Alfonso. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] In defence of the amendments made by your groups, Mrs Martín Llaguno is speaking on behalf of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-02-CD210202.u28	President, ladies and gentlemen, the Socialist Parliamentary Group has brought us today to debate a non-legislative proposal which we believe has to do, in part, with the report that the group of experts has made to the ministry which has said that it is very important - and there is a great deficit - the transfer of science in this country. [[The Lord]] We completely agree. Indeed, there is a need to improve the transfer and improve the science of this country. However, the truth is that the non-law proposition you have brought us is full of generalities. You set, a priori, three objectives with which we can agree. Firstly, to encourage the incorporation of researchers into private enterprise; secondly, to amend the Science Act to include transfer as part of the science itself and, thirdly, to promote public-private collaboration. The idea is good, but let's see the development. Firstly, to incorporate research staff into companies, and they say that what they want to do is to follow and strengthen the programmes that are already under way. But, let's see, as my grandmother would say, candid souls, if we have programs that are preventing researchers from entering companies and companies from having researchers, let's not try to reinforce them, let's innovate and make new proposals. Secondly, strengthen the Science Act in order to collect the motivation for the transfer. Point 1, in order for the first thing to be transferred is science, and therefore we have made you a proposal - which you have not just accepted - which is that, for example, you clearly modify the timetable of the research agency which has left the projects in this country hanging in the air for eight months. For there to be a transfer there must be research and there must be researchers. Secondly, you ask us a little about the model of Juan Palomo: I like it I eat it. If you really want to reform the Science Act, talk to researchers first, because, for example, Cotec one of the things he says in the last report is that one third of university professors who have applied for the six-year transfer are against the criteria that have been used. A sexian who, by the way, does not mention and has area biases and gender biases, you worry so much. Talk to the investigators. We too have ideas that can incorporate how to require communication plans to be evaluated with the indicators used by the European Union, which has been doing so for a long time. None of this comes in your GNP. The third objective is to improve public-private collaboration and financing for innovative companies, and they refer us back to the solutions they have always given. If those solutions worked, public-private collaboration would be under way. What we are asking you is that there are many bureaucratic procedures and many problems in the current scientific system. As an example a button: look what has happened right now with the COVID medicine, with the Farmamed, which have stopped and the problem they are having are bureaucratic procedures. Therefore, talent is - the report you are handling says - in fact we have patents, the number of patents has increased, but what is lacking is to reduce that bureaucracy, accompany scientists and remove all the obstacles so that we are not at a competitive disadvantage. In short, we have tabled an amendment with four points which are very basic and with which we hoped they would agree. First, to attract talent by increasing, for example, tax incentives for firms hiring research staff. This is not and needs to be started. Secondly, remove uncertainties and provide legal certainty in the whole field of science. One of the issues is the timing of the State Research Agency. Thirdly, to break down bureaucratic barriers to investment in innovation, to make standards more flexible so that sponsorship models can enter, so that microfinance and technical and institutional support can be used to guide innovative companies. And finally, to really bet on an open data management culture that will allow scientific culture to be transferred to public opinion. We are looking forward to seeing what proposal they make us. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-02-CD210202.u29	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, I have the floor at this time, in which Mr Rego Candamil will also be given the first position.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-02-CD210202.u30	Thank you, Mr. President. In our view, the two main R & D+i challenges are investment and precariousness, increasing the former and reducing the latter. These are the foundations that for the BNG must be improved, as they involve the success in research and the dissemination of knowledge. Precarity, temporality and instability are a huge burden for many scientists, especially predoctoral scientists, in developing their work. We consider that talking about knowledge transfer in these conditions is to want to start the house on the roof. In this regard, we again propose the amendment of the Science Act so that pre-doctoral contracts are concluded under the form of a contract of employment or service entitled to compensation and automatic extensions in the event of a positive evaluation. When it comes to knowledge transfer, it is always necessary to prioritise the public interest; the provision of public funds for research in public-private collaboration programmes must be made according to social or general interests so that the private sector participates and that there is a social return on these investments; work, economic dynamism, public use of the advances and participation of society in the benefits. In this respect, we have tabled a number of amendments which we hope will be taken into consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-02-CD210202.u31	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Errejón Galván has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-02-CD210202.u32	Thank you, Mr. President. Two notes on this non-law proposition. First of all, of course we are in favour of public-private collaboration, but there are two ways of doing it, there are basically two models. If I had to sum it up, I would tell you that there is one that is that of public-private collaboration led by an entrepreneurial State and that of public-private collaboration by a kind of paid State. The former has the capacity to have an active industrial policy, to guide investment, to bet on certain sectors and to pave the way, guide and boost private investment. It is, for example, the one who decides a decade before man gets to the moon, the one who guides investments, injects into many companies and many industries, generates thousands of jobs and, in addition, favors technological developments that many technological companies then live on. The entrepreneurial State in this regard points to countries. And we, too, believe that the fight against climate change is going to be a huge opportunity for the development of leading technologies and industries. In the second model - which we might call the pay-as-you-go model - the state only pays; it has neither the ability to orient nor the ability to plan. It never brings benefits, but it's always there to pay when private people get sick and it's the sad model of what ridicule does in front of Astrazeneca. When Astrazeneca fails to meet deadlines, fails to meet contracts and fails to deliver vaccines, she is forced to make a fool of herself, and that is why a public pharmacy is needed. The second point is the point of the fundamental ingredient. Of course, a more robust Spanish science system is needed, but this starts with scientists and in Spain, you know, doing science is practically a heroic act. There are two examples, and one has been given. Firstly, the precarious situation of FPU workers who have to recognize their rights as workers. And, secondly, today we knew lanoticia, I think it was news from the SER Chain, that the nine researchers who investigate the variables, the new strains of COVID, work in precarious and with contracts that are not stable. That's where we start. We will vote in favour of this non-legislative proposal, but I think you know as much as I do that to start taking your Spanish science system seriously, you must start by ending the precariousness of your scientists. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-02-CD210202.u33	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] I give the floor to Mrs Illamola Dausà.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-02-CD210202.u34	Good afternoon. The GNP presented to us creates several doubts. One is an initial doubt, because we do not understand either the title or the content; we do not know whether it refers only to technological knowledge or to all kinds of knowledge. Then, in their text, they talk about technology and public-private collaboration. In Catalonia we have several examples of this, I point out only one, the Cidai, which is dedicated to promoting artificial intelligence and its use in companies and institutions. It consists of two public administrations, four research centres and three private companies. It is promoted by the Department of Digital Policy and Public Administration. The Honourable Counselor who chairs it, Counselor Puigneró, was vetoed by the Government of Spain to participate in the Global Business Summit. The aim of this congress was to publicize global digital solutions. So it does not seem to us that what you are proclaiming and what you want to promote in your GNP is in line with the actions you are carrying out. There is also talk in GNP of a change in the economic model based on knowledge generation. That's very good for us. The question is: Do you believe this to be said or done only by the recommendations of the European Semester? Some indication of this has already been made. Why? Because researchers in Spain either have precarious contracts, or are forced to immigrate, and in universities there are also cuts and not just for researchers, for everything. It is true that in almost all general budgets the cut in universities and research is abysmal, although in the last ones that have been approved the budget has been increased, but why? Because the Next Generation does; if not, we have doubts that it would actually have been done. We also have a discrepancy with regard to the size of businesses. You say that SMEs have less mass of capacity and technological knowledge. What are they based on? We say a company is big because it's IBEX or because it invests in R & D & i? Perhaps the so-called large companies should contribute and follow the example of SMEs. Finally, with regard to the National Recovery and Resilience Plan and the losses you have to present in Brussels, will you take into account the public-private proposals, for example, of the Generalitat de Catalunya, which follow the model that you propose to us in this GNP? They're all doubts. And the last is why they have a GNP, because we all know the value they have and the course they can take. You are a party of government, so we understand that perhaps you could have used another element. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-02-CD210202.u35	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Castillo López has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-02-CD210202.u36	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I begin by highlighting and thanking the important work of all those who represent science, technology and innovation in our country, a fundamental pillar for tackling the health, economic and social crisis in which we are immersed and a collective that has demonstrated its generosity and its enormous research and innovative capacity at the service of society. Ladies and gentlemen, we lost the European Medicines Agency because of nationalist radicalism and in the current pandemic we needed it more than ever. We have lost the opportunity to put our country at the top of Europe's health decisions and, ladies and gentlemen socialists and Podemos, we are now running the risk of losing that critical mass as important as it is valuable that researchers represent. Without the extensions of their contracts, without solving the stays, without funding, how do you want them to continue to bet on Spain and science? The People's Party has listened to you, defended you and will continue to do so, but you have laid down and vetoed all the proposals we have made to you and our amendments to the General Budgets of the State. Socialists, you recognise in your GNP that Spain lacks its own technology and industrial knowledge and that this puts us in a situation of vulnerability and fragility vis-à-vis third countries. When will they also recognise that division of competences in three ministries means a loss of strength of competences that require coordination and unity? We are still in time to place our country in its rightful place in international science and there they will always count on the support of the People's Party. Our president, Pablo Casado, has offered them a state pact to allocate 2% of GDP to investment in science. But let us be clear, Mr Cendón, with four million unemployed people, 7000 businesses and 14 668 self-employed people who have had to close in January, as well as with a huge number of researchers in limbo, the GNP they present to us today does not aim to boost the competitiveness of companies and society as a whole, does not seek innovation and the transfer of knowledge and does not aim to bet on by researchers in our country. He seeks to cover up the inaction of a minister, Mr. Duke, who is neither expected nor expected. Its GNP is scarcely sufficient in content, with a poor and poorly focused exposition, and what we had outlined to them with PNL paths approved on December 22 in relation to strongly betting for research in our country and by the doctors of the Spanish university, as well as to reformulate the instruments of transfer of knowledge and the promotion and defense of industrial property. This GNP shows a total lack of coordination between socialists and communists and, in addition, between the socialists themselves. And they present it a week after the validation of the real decree of the European funds, which is still more irritating; after the blank cheque that Bildu and VOX have placed in their hands with funds that we do not know how they will be distributed, that they forget about the SMEs and that they will finance strategic projects weighted by parameters by the Government itself. We have asked a subcommission to talk about all this, but a subcommission to listen to the sector, to listen to everything that science, technology and innovation represent. We are surprised that in this GNP they make no reference to the Shocking Plan for Science and Innovation presented by its president, probably because it was nothing but pure marketing. Where are the EUR 1056 million for direct investment and EUR 508 million in concessional loans for innovative companies in our country? You should have coordinated before writing this GNP. It's all marketing, ladies and gentlemen. Socialists, may you speak here of Rajoy when the invoices were piled up in the drawers and, now that you are ruling and have European funds for the recovery of SMEs, may you also acknowledge that the digitisation and technology of these companies are missing and bring us this GNP without measures or funding is completely shameful. Spain will not be able to break down the wall that separates the Spanish university from the company. We have amended this GNP and we hope you will consider our points: 2% of the GDP of investment in science, favouring knowledge transfer ecosystems for newly created companies, putting in place measures included in this shock plan which seems to be a damp paper and bet on public-private collaboration projects. I'm done, President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, we agree with you that this government is giving up all its promises and you are likely to bring this GNP here today for that reason. I tell you more, I need you to bring this GNP because you present plans and make promises that you never fulfill. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-02-CD210202.u37	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] The Basque Parliamentary Group, Mrs Gorospe Elezcano, has the floor in position-setting. [[EAJPNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-02-CD210202.u38	One of the good things you have to get down here now is to take off the mask, which we all appreciate very much. Good afternoon, Mr Alfonso Cendón - I start with you as a representative of the proposing group - and other colleagues who have participated in the debate. In the Basque Parliamentary Group, when we saw the initiative, it seemed to us that we coincided with the diagnosis you made today by replicating the explanatory statement and the proposal of your initiative. Because, in fact, we do not believe that an effective and effective transfer of scientific knowledge is being made to the company, that a transfer of knowledge is not being made to society, which is where all this scientific production really has to go. This is due to this gap in the relationship between the academic-scientific world and the world of enterprise, and we understand that your initiative is aimed at somehow resolving this deficit that exists. In our case, we believe that it is absolutely necessary not only that there is a transfer of knowledge, but also that there is a transfer of all the scientific talent that exists and of technology. We are going through a health crisis never known to any of us and in which we are seeing that there are major deficits and that we depend on the outside. Therefore, we share not only the diagnosis, but also the challenge, that need for all that knowledge that is generated, all that talent and all that technology, to reach society through the enterprise, from companies that already exist or from a new generation. It is the only way to meet the end of this knowledge, to be results-oriented and to be an effective instrument for responding to all challenges, in this case the emergence of the health crisis, but also to environmental challenges, as mentioned here, challenges of digitalisation or demographic change. There are many challenges we have to be able to respond quickly with all that knowledge. Our parliamentary group, when the Science, Technology and Innovation Strategy was presented to the Commission, already said that objectives should be included in the strategy itself that would further strengthen the relationship between academia, scientific production and business, because only with the synergy between these areas could the benefit reach society. In the State, as we have often commented, there is no single model of science, technology and innovation, but there is the model of the State, the model of Madrid, the Catalan model and the Basque model. Our model, which is perhaps more like German, Finnish or American, is a very productive model, which is very oriented to industry, and which has the objective of responding to both the needs of the productive or industrial fabric and the needs that are emerging in different economic, social and health fields. We believe that the proposal you have put forward has aspects that need to be improved; it may be scarce in areas such as finance, and we have had the opportunity to talk to you about this issue. In Euskadi there is a financing model for different actors in the science, technology and innovation system, in which different models, a mix of financing, are being proposed. We think he's lame in that sense. The precarious situation of researchers has been discussed. Undoubtedly, a change in direction, a change in the direction of the science, technology and innovation system should respond to that situation. There are many aspects that should be improved, but it seems to us that your initiative is in the right direction. It seems to us that it is a vasquization - if I may express it - of the Spanish system of science, technology and innovation, where from this mix of research in excellence, specialization and marketing to give more strength to the field of the market...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-02-CD210202.u39	Your Honor, you must go ahead and finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-02-CD210202.u40	..., promoting collaboration - term - public-private and the interaction of all agents. I know you're working on a compromise amendment. We will see what the text of the amendment is and, depending on it, we will decide on the vote of our parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-02-CD210202.u41	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, Mr Sánchez Serna has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-02-CD210202.u42	Thank you, President. In 1939 an important book on scientific sociology, called The Social Function of Science, was published. In that book, its author, John Bernal, proposed that science is not only a theoretical construction, but is in itself a productive force, a productive process. Science - as we know - has implications for economic transformations, has implications for employment, in people's daily lives, and that is why the author said, Bernal, that it must be an area of planning on the part of the State. Of course, this thesis was criticized by the liberals of the time, supporters of what was then called pure science or free inquiry, but the truth is that the ideas of the Bernal Marxist became hegemonic in most advanced societies. Today there is a broad consensus on the need for States to develop scientific policies to promote technological change, create quality jobs or protect public health. This GNP that the Socialist Group is bringing to us on a road map for the transfer of knowledge, I think it also responds to this imperative, to Bernal's imperative, and that is why we are going to support it. In part, they suggest that they were already included in the State General Budgets and are therefore to be implemented. However, the debate remains Bernal's debate, the debate on how to guarantee the social role of science, because if something manifests this pandemic, the VOCID-19 pandemic, has been the weakness of the public after decades of neoliberalism and dismantling of the public sector. What we are seeing these days with the vaccines of COVID-19 is paradigmatic: multinational pharmaceutical companies, such as AstraZeneca, which received public funding for the development of vaccines and which are now, however, speculating with their distribution and blackmailing States. This is very serious and it is pointing to the limits of a model of kidnapping of the neoliberal model; a model that exposes us to these episodes of piracy and speculation, precisely because we have not been able to guarantee a public patent and thus ensure that the vaccine against COVID was a global public good. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, from the confederal group, we believe that the time has come to balance that balance between the public and the private. We can no longer repeat formulas which have proved to be extremely inoperative in this pandemic, nor in terms of scientific policy. In the field of science, in particular - and as we have said before - it remains essential to increase public investment and strengthen public research bodies. This must also make us rethink the transfer of knowledge, which we always think of as a transfer to the market. At this point, we must start to consider the transfer of knowledge to the public sector, for example, to improve the effectiveness of public administrations or to improve the capacity of strategic sectors, such as our health system. Then, there is another problem in the knowledge transfer chain, and so many researchers recognize it with whom we have been able to talk. Research teams often find very general findings that need time and resources to be developed and transferred to the market; and companies, on the contrary, are increasingly calling for more developed developments, while private funding remains very low in our country. Therefore, there is something like a vacuum between the laboratory and the market. For this reason, we believe that it would be interesting at some point to raise the debate of a public consortium for the transfer; a public consortium participated by the OPI, also by the transfer offices that already exist, would help to speed up this transfer of knowledge and even to take on the direct marketing of innovations. In this way, this public body could market directly as one more operator, having greater bargaining power with private actors, and, above all, allow our IPOs to retain the ownership of innovations, intellectual property, patents, etc. In short, we think that the knowledge transfer chain needs a public link, a link that sutures that distance from which it spoke between the laboratory and the market, that accelerates the transfer and that also allows returns to the public sector. I'm done, President. The transfer of knowledge to be effective cannot be established solely on the basis of the circumstances of the supposedly self-regulated market. The reconstruction of the country before us can be an opportunity to develop technological sovereignty, to promote the local manufacture of basic products - vaccines, reagents, etc. - and, above all, as I said at the beginning, to safeguard the social role of science. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-02-CD210202.u43	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, Mr Utrilla Cano has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-02-CD210202.u44	Thank you, President. Socialist ladies and gentlemen, you will never blow good winds for those who do not know where you are going. You strive over and over again to put patches on science and from VOX over and over again we tell you the same thing: the solution is not tirite, it's called surgery. You, Mr Cendón, have come up here to censor private companies because they do not invest in innovation, without making a point of self-criticism why they do not. It has presented us with a GNP without any change of pace and which is limited to staying on the surface, and proposes an ambiguous and unconcrete initiative. VOX has denounced it many times, the system is addicted. They should facilitate public-private cooperation by changing the structure of the system and simplifying procedures, not with cosmetic touches. You and the People's Party have created a parallel state full of bureaucrats, an elephantic organization that is not operational and has to be much more agile, light and effective. [[Applauds]] You are filled with the importance of science, but just a few weeks ago, in the Commission, you rejected with your votes the creation of a permanent scientific committee to advise the government, on VOX's proposal, something which the own minister praised in his appearances and which should not have detractors among which we think science is fundamental to govern with criteria. [[applause]] Let him look at it, socialist ladies and gentlemen. In point 1 of their initiative they talk about the incorporation of doctors into companies. Whatever it is to incorporate talent into private enterprise will be welcome, but will not boost technology transfer in Spain. The real structural problems, raging procedures and administrative obstacles, and you don't know why you don't talk to entrepreneurs or scientists, and if you do, you certainly don't listen to them. [[Applauds]] Do you know that our discoveries here in Spain are more patented in the United States than by national companies themselves? Spain invests in science and other countries capitalize on it; a veritable misconception. In point 2 they talk about improving the motivation of researchers. You two skate again, gentlemen. We must facilitate the process of patents and transfers and not blame our scientists for their low motivation. They may indeed do something for them, highlight the role of the sexenium as an instrument to recognize its merit in the activity of knowledge transfer, something they have not taken into account in their initiative. In point 3 you are talking about financing public-private projects, but you have not yet assimilated that the financial expenditure on R & D+i is only implemented by 25%, as companies do not come to this offer of financing by not seeing itattractive or throwing the towel because of the cumbersomeness of their procedures. Don't be pertinent in error, don't reaffirm what we already know doesn't work; if you really want to boost SME transfer, give tax subsidies and incentives. There's no other solution. At point 4 you start the house on the roof. Before monitoring and monitoring, it must be made more evident; to do the opposite makes no sense. They have to talk to both sides, with scientists and entrepreneurs, but as I fear they will not, do something very simple: sit on a chair and read the Cotec Foundation's report on knowledge transfer, where a multitude of entrepreneurs and scientists have been consulted and they all agree on the same thing: the first obstacle they encounter is bureaucracy. On his initiative, by the way, not a single mention of this. I want to take advantage of the fact that I'm in this rostrum to deliver a message. Last weekend we started the campaign of the Catalan elections, as you know, and we moved to many localities in Catalonia, where we have been insulted, harassed, persecuted and threatened, all worthy of Hitler's Germany or Maduro's Venezuela. To the few and numbered elected officials of other parties who have shown us their solidarity, truly, heartfelt thanks. [[Applauds]] To the miserables who have instigated, trivialized or justified these attacks from the Generality and from right here, I want to tell you that, despite their low morals, we will never do the same because we are not like them and that if in any of their acts they are harassed, we will condemn him without palliatives. [[Applauds]] And finally, to those sinister characters, to that horde of orcs, which were filled with hate for us and who threw eggs and stones at us, I want to tell you that you lose all hope of becoming afraid, that we are not afraid of you, that we will continue to walk through the streets and squares of our beloved Catalonia when and as we want, and that we will never abandon our compatriots there. [[Applauds]] Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause of the Members of the VOX Parliamentary Group, on the ground]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-02-CD210202.u45	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Alfonso Cendón, do you accept any of the amendments?
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-02-CD210202.u46	We're working on a transactional.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-02-CD210202.u47	Perfect. Thank you very much. - the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress, on global and urgent support for the Spanish hospitality sector. [[File number 162/000461]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-02-CD210202.u48	We continue with the non-law proposal of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, on global and urgent support to the Spanish hospitality sector. For the presentation of the initiative and the amendments tabled, I have the floor, Mrs Borrego Cortés.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-02-CD210202.u49	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. I rise to this rostrum to defend a proposal in defense of the sector most punished by the pandemic, the hospitality sector. We put in place 15 concrete actions. We cannot leave this House to its fate, we cannot leave the hospitality sector abandoned, forget its problems, tell them to be indebted or transfer the competition to the autonomous parliaments. Right now, they have the perception that the Government of Spain has abandoned them. Hospitality is an economic sector that contributes substantially to employment and to shaping the way of life of our society, making it dynamic and with the possibility of an enormous interaction, which is part of our attractiveness and allows for greater tourism competitiveness. Alongside the hotel sector, it is an essential element for tourism, having accounted for more than 12% of our gross domestic product, and we have been visited by more than 80 million international tourists. However, hospitality is the sector that has lost the most social security affiliates in the past year. We played a million jobs. That is why my group, not only in the economic sphere, has put forward this proposal. We think of the people who make up this sector. They are citizens, with names and surnames, who since the famous demonstration on 8 March last year - eleven months have already passed - have been forced to lock up or work with restrictions, to not be able to carry out their activity normally, to be in ERTE, to have difficulty of supplies because they do not know if they will remain open or if they will close. It has been eleven months in which they have had to pay rents, electricity, water, social security, and the only thing the Government has given them has been the possibility of having credits and some postponement; aid only from the autonomous communities, and these without government support, without matching this financing into the autonomous financing model. That is why this initiative seeks to urge the Government to show a little sensitivity to people who have been having a hard time for a year, who need direct help, no words or rallies. They are not big entrepreneurs, they are natural people, small entrepreneurs, self-employed people who worked and intend to continue working in the hospitality sector. Regardless of the vote they cast, which, if they are consistent, should be positive, I would like to ask you about two issues: how we want this sector to be, and whether we want the same people who were in March 2020 to follow it, if they want to do so. The Members of my group have a clear position, we want to maintain and strengthen this sector, which has special characteristics with regard to the rest of our environment and extractors from other sectors, such as fisheries, agriculture and culture. This initiative aims to provide support for those who were and are, and may these be the ones who follow, because there are government people who at some meeting have said that, naps are ruined, others will already open. No, ladies and gentlemen, that's not the solution. This initiative aims to help those who are. One idea underlying this initiative is that of direct aid, because Spain, by delaying direct aid to businesses, is putting the entire business sector, especially SMEs and self-employed, at risk, and we are not the only ones, the International Monetary Fund has identified Spain as the country that gives the least aid among the countries around us. That is why we have tabled an amendment to reaffirm this idea. Delaying, as the Government does, a direct aid programme puts the survival of the business fabric at risk and, above all, leaves thousands and thousands of people and families in sectors seriously damaged by the health crisis. It is essential and urgent for the Government to approve this direct aid and compensation plan, a plan that must be simple and quick, without confusion or bureaucracy. We hope that the concern for the completion of the ERTs will not be transferred to the employers and that the extension will be automatic until this situation ceases. ERTEs are being an effective measure, but there is no point in the lack of certainty arising from continuous extensions, when the hospitality sector is unable to recover its billing for the time being. Similarly, we also propose other measures which seem to have the full meaning to be supported by all groups and which undoubtedly respond to the demands of the sector, such as training, technology, a new plan or a strategic plan for gastronomy. Ladies and gentlemen, do you not think that urging the government to draw up a strategic plan can and should be supported by everyone? They may disagree from the left on our tax proposals, but I assure you that their intransigence, for example, in not lowering VAT to the tourism sector has been and is a mistake. We are asking for this reduction in VAT for tourism, for hotels, for all tourism service providers at least a 4% discount during this year. We call for a coordinated decision to be taken with autonomous communities and local entities on the IBI, the garbage rates, the IAE, because, although it seems incredible, these taxes and fees are being made with the establishment obliged to close or restrict its activity, and all this with the passiveness of the Ministry of Finance and the Presidency of the Government. Someone could run away and justify himself by decree laws, hide behind them, but in none there are direct aids or clear supports; they are credits or postponements, which do not fix anything. In fact, the Minister's plan is called by the non-plan. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you, when tomorrow or the day after tomorrow you cast your vote, to think of the owner of the bar or restaurant you attend in your province. I'm sure they know them, as well as their entire family. Don't turn your back on them, they can't be the pagans of COVID. If you vote no, it will cost you a lot to look them in the eye without feeling ashamed. Thank you so much. [[Prolonged applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-02-CD210202.u50	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] In defence of the amendments put forward by the groups, first of all by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Martínez Granados has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-02-CD210202.u51	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, sadly, we are once again debating in this plenary an initiative to try to save the hospitality industry, and I say sadly because that means that one year after the start of the global pandemic the Government is still unable to address the problem and help our hoteliers as they deserve. It seems pointless to recall the figures for these sectors, which contribute so much to the gross domestic product and generate so many jobs. He could insist that our tourism and hospitality sectors aroused admiration among the rest of the countries, sectors that the Government carried as a flag and example of success. Yesterday some media said that, due to problems arising from the non-payment of credits as a result of the high debt that many of our companies have achieved in recent months, Mrs Calviño intends to amend the Competition Law to facilitate the closures of these companies that will not be able to survive. Are you now aware of this, gentlemen of the Government, if the government has put the star measure on the table to save this sector and many others, apart from the ERTE, are ICO credits, funding that they will have to pay whether they can, have or do not have income? Would you rather think of the companies that are going to close and facilitate closures, rather than rescue them and avoid such closures and layoffs? As a part of the problem in deciding whether or not to support direct aid to the hospitality and tourism sector is that they do not know the real numbers, the reality of the sector, I will set just one example, although it could be thousands. A hotel with more than fifty closed workers has zero income but fixed social insurance costs - the part that they still have to face -, waste rates, IBI, maintenance, gardening, IAE, other taxes and fees, that is, numerous expenses, that are around 130 000, 140 000 euros per month. Can the UN spokespersons say We can and the Socialist Party - not me, the sector - how will they deal with this money every month without direct aid? Can you explain? It would be interesting for them to give the sector a solution. Ladies and gentlemen, there is only one: direct aid. They will tell me that ICO credits, with that debt that they assume week by week and month by month, will be the only thing that can help them, but it is not so, because they do not have enough income. It is an irresponsible response, because it puts its own survival in the hands of the sector alone. They leave them behind. Didn't they say they weren't going to leave anyone behind? Many companies and many self-employed remain, and many workers will be left behind. The non-legislative proposal brought by the People's Party today, very similar to the motion we tabled after the inquiry to the Minister of Industry, Commerce and Tourism, leaves behind the autonomous who will have to start over again after the stoppage, after the cessation of activity. That is why we have tabled amendments in this regard. As from Citizens we ask for that national vaccination plan, we also need a national rescue plan. We cannot stick to the government's handing over funds to the autonomous communities, it has to be managed from the central government, so that the aid to hoteliers and tourism entrepreneurs is equal, wherever and wherever the hotel and tourism businesses are. That is why we have tabled some amendments from Citizens, some technical improvements, but others that contain important measures that should be in this non-legislative proposal. That is why we are asking to set up a flat rate of EUR 70 per month for self-employed workers who are reopening their business, because when they start working again they will have no business to return to, they will have to start from scratch, and to create a multiannual fund for direct aid from 2021 to 2023 in the general plans of the State - I am surprised that they did not even see it possible to look at them in these budgets, because that is the measure - since with aid only this year it will not be possible to get out of this crisis for many years. Members of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, if we do not support our hoteliers we lose the sector, so simple. If we do not support our tourism and hospitality sector now, there will be no way to resurrect it when it passes this pandemic. Today's aid will be tomorrow's jobs. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-02-CD210202.u52	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Jover Díaz has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-02-CD210202.u53	Good afternoon, President. Ladies and gentlemen, today the People's Party is presenting a new GNP which confirms that they do not have a single new proposal to combat the crisis. They come to see if they can take a few votes at the cost of the pandemic, because when they rule they cut, and some steal us to the water from the vases. It is a PNL that reveals a huge lack of imagination. Faced with any problem they always raise the same recipe: lowering taxes. In a context of growth they propose to lower taxes; in the face of a recession, lower taxes; to correct inequality, lower taxes, and to deal with the pandemic, lower taxes. This is not economics, it is surrender, and the problems are not solved by acts of faith or, as Báñez exministrates, by entrusting herself to the Virgin of Dew. We are glad that you are putting on the table that a tax reform is necessary, although I assure you that we will not agree with you, that you are so used to raising taxes on workers and self-employed and lowering them for big fortunes and big businesses. If anything has shown the pandemic, we need strong public services, and that is not built by lowering taxes. As far as you are concerned, we want strong public services and a tax reform that complies with the Constitution, so that we can provide more for those who have the most. Ladies and gentlemen, they are coming to propose a series of measures that the Government has already put in place. This isn't serious. It only proves his ineptitude and incapacity. They request transfers to the Autonomous Communities. Ladies and gentlemen, this has been happening for more than half a year now. To this end, the COVID fund, with 16 billion for non-reimbursable transfers to communities, was empowered to deal with the crisis. They call for a 4 % reduction in VAT. Spain currently applies the 10% reduced tax rate to most services related to tourism and hospitality. They should remember that the Member States and the European Commission have made a commitment to limit the application of reduced rates and not include new categories. In fact, Spain is one of the countries in the European Union with the highest tax-collection losses resulting from the application of reduced rates and exemptions. Also, among other tax benefits, the postponement of tax obligations for the first quarter of this year has also been approved. Ladies and gentlemen, what have you spent your time, apart from confabulating to block Spain from receiving aid from Europe? With regard to ICO loans, you should know that the repayment periods have already been extended to a maximum of eight years. As for an extension of the ERTs, they have already been extended until 31 May, and the Minister, Yolanda Díaz, has reported that they will be extended as many times as necessary. Ladies and gentlemen of the PP, stop creating confusion and clarify your ideas. During the state of alarm they shouted that the decisions should be left to the autonomous communities, during the decontainment they were outraged because they had to take them in the vaccination campaign, in the face of the inability of their leaders, they again ask the Minister of Health to assume the competences. They now call on the Government to coordinate with local authorities to eliminate taxes over which it has no jurisdiction. What is the goal, that Mrs Ayuso will come out against the government tomorrow for laminating her skills and thus covering up the infamy that she assumes is not hiring health workers to fight the pandemic? Shame and responsibility are lacking, because the best tool to get out of the crisis is to end the virus, rather than use it for the sole purpose of destabilizing the Government. The hospitality sector is suffering and does not deserve such an unresponsible opposition nor a Junta de Andalucia that keeps in a drawer eight hundred million received by transfers, instead of helping them and lowering their rates. [[Applauds]] Nor do some violent people, driven by their fellow defeccories, deserve to try to distort their legitimate demands, with which we sympathize, breaking glass and throwing customs at the police, as happened in the Balearic Parliament. Since our formation, we have called on the Government to continue to implement more measures to strengthen this social shield that has been created, because we must all leave this pandemic, without anyone leaving behind. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-02-CD210202.u54	Thank you so much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Rueda Perelló has the floor for the VOX parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-02-CD210202.u55	Mrs Borrego, from the People's Party, said in her speech that the hotel industry cannot be abandoned. How do you think they feel in Galicia, Andalusia, Murcia and Castile and Leon, where they rule? [[Applauds]] He said let's think about people. Tell that to Feijoo and Moreno Bonilla. You ask the government for sensitivity: that is exactly what we ask of you where you govern. The People's Party speaks of urgent support for hospitality, and lobbies in Congress, but where they govern what they do is impose restrictions and prohibitions. And not only do they show a certain inconsistency, but the PP's barons who rule in Galicia, Castile and León, Murcia and Andalusia do not support their decisions either with their statements to the sector or to Díaz Ayuso, who, by the way, claims to bet on trade and hospitality but also imposes time restrictions. [[Applauds]] You see, where the People's Party governs lack of support for the hotel industry and have different criteria, because in Madrid they close at 9 a.m., but in Malaga at 6 a.m., and from this morning total closure - open quotes - 'for all non-essential activity', and I say that I open quotes because they must understand that essential is all activity, since on it always depends the livelihood of families. [[Applauds]] They forbid working in the nocturnal leisure sector, which has been without income for months, impose restrictions on trade and the bar in the neighbourhood, but, as the hoteliers of Almeria told me yesterday, if they believe that with a thousand euros of help from the Andalusian Board there is a business, it is that they know nothing of this. Barriers and prohibitions and no compensation. In this GNP they talk about restrictions of mobility and limitations of hours and hours. Curiously, they ask that, but that's what they do where they rule: they put restrictions and limitations. Most of the measures contained in this non-legislative proposal that we are debating today were already included in the initiatives that VOX has already registered in the months of April, June, August and October: VAT reduction, deferral of payments in loans and mortgages, exemption in Social Security, tax elimination. That's what we stand for. That is why we have tabled amendments to complete this proposal and we will vote in favour. We will because we always vote in favour of what is good for the Spaniards. [[Applauds]] And although from your party and your friendly media - by the way, I don't know which media are the most activists, whether those who support the Communist left or those who support you - manipulate the truth and attack us, they must know that their attacks make us stronger and that the truth always prevails. [[Applauds]] Therefore, I encourage you to abandon the path of slander and defamation towards VOX and the millions of people we represent, because in life and politics not everything is worth it. With regard to the amendments tabled, the Socialist Group is talking about maintaining ERTs. Ladies and gentlemen, bearing in mind that in all the negotiations on ERTs they have had the industry until the last moment, it is certainly very good that they speak of ERT, but the good thing will be that they carry it out. However, given what has been said and the amendments tabled, it is clear that they would do better work from the opposition. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, take off the blindfold of ideology, because this is not about party interests. We from VOX have it clear, very clear, and that's why we're here. The aim is to find real solutions to the real problems of Spanish people. Today we have seen the data on unemployment in January: 76,000 new unemployed, almost eight million people without work, more than 735 000 workers in ERTE, and many of them are from the hospitality and services sector. Let go of stories and ideology of right, left or ultra. The story is that of the beaten lives, that of a tragic year, of personal dramas, families torn by sudden loss, by the closure of their businesses, the loss of employment, fear of contagion and by that daily pulse between life and the virus. We see survival lessons, and the Spaniards do not deserve a future marked by the instability that all the ruling parties give them. Look around you: sadness, despair, ruin and misery. I conclude with a message of hope, a message that Ignacio Garriga, candidate for the Presidency of the Generality, conveyed from the rostrum Ignacio Garriga: freedom, goodness, beauty and truth will eventually triumph. And from the headquarters of the national government, Ignatius and all the candidates, members and supporters, to those who suffer the cowardice of all those who do not denounce the violence you suffer in Catalonia, we say to you: Valient, you are not alone; on your side, fifty-two of VOX and millions of Spaniards! Thank you. [[One Member: Bravo!-Applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, on the floor]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-02-CD210202.u56	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, Mr Soler Mur has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-02-CD210202.u57	Good afternoon, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Today the Group of the European People's Party brings us a non-legislative proposal to support the hospitality sector in Spain, certainly a sector that is having a very bad time, which is going through real difficulties as a result of the pandemic, from restrictions to mobility, from closures, from confinements and the lack of opportunity to concentrate people in certain places, but I have to tell you that with this proposal - and, Mrs Borrego, I say it to you by looking it in the eyes, as you have asked - you are late. The Socialist Party has had one minute since the pandemic began, supporting the hospitality sector. Recently, last week, and with its support, an additional €42 billion aid package was approved, implying a mobilisation of €62 billion in favour of the sector so far. Therefore, a great deal of effort is being made to support it, although, no doubt, despite all the support of the Government and some communities, everything will be insufficient to alleviate and replace the flow of private economic activity. But what cannot be said is that this Government, the Government of Spain, with the help of the Ministry of Industry and the rest of the ministries, is not making a great effort to support the hotel industry at this time. [[Applauds]] What do you ask? They call for a number of aid, as additional funding for the Autonomous Communities. Ladies and gentlemen, we have already made two tranches of aid: 16 billion, on the one hand, which have already been made available, and 13 486 million in this budget. What's going on? It happens that the Valencian Community has contributed 400 million and that of Castilla-La Mancha 150 million, but Castilla and León has given 17 million and yours, Murcia, Mrs Borrego, 20 million, more than half of the Government of Spain. That's what's going on, that it's the communities that have the skills to give support to tourism and trade, and it's not being done in those that govern you, and that says it to the party with the governing party, which is VOX. They also call for the extension of ERTE until 31 May, and VOX also said that there is a lot of uncertainty. Ladies and gentlemen, this is February 2nd and it is now until May 31st. On the other hand, ERTE is direct aid for workers. And as for the enlargement of the ICOs, they are, as Antonia Jover said, up to eight years old, with two years of lack, and therefore it is already done. As regards direct aid, the provision to self-employed persons is a direct aid which is receiving 1.5 million self-employed persons in Spain, and is a major direct aid. On exempting from the payment of social security contributions those who are obliged to suspend the activity, ladies and gentlemen, those who are obliged to suspend the activity are not contributing to social security. Also, the fixed breaks between April and October of this year will have 50% bonus, so that extra aid is being given. And the provision for self-employed people I have commented on is compatible with the development of the activity provided that it is invoiced up to 2660 euros per month, while there is also a moratorium on the payment of social security contributions. They also ask for no taxes to be paid, and for this quarter, they are postponed until October. In addition, those who paid for modules, by objective estimate, can go to direct estimate, to pay only for what they bill, and, in addition, they are not accounted for the time limits within which they have been closed, either because of community confinement or because they have been alarmed. Also, those who have voluntarily decided to remain in direct estimation have a 35% reduction in the IRPF and in the simplified VAT system. In the case of leases, 50% take-off or moratorium to pay later, tax incentive for small tenants. And, ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the reduction of VAT, the European Union says that it should not be reduced to the super-reduced rate, which can only be made for exceptional and essential goods, and in a Commission report it states that tourism is not of primary necessity. In addition, they know that VAT is already reduced in Spain to 10%. The world leader in tourism, France, has the same type as us, 10%. They call for support for promotion, gastronomy, digitisation and training, which are being carried out. What happens is that you misdiagnose and, because of this, treatment. What we have in Spain is not a product problem. We don't need more promotion - it's already done -, we don't need to be more known; we'll always have to promote ourselves more, but it's already done. We don't have a price problem. The problem is not to lower VAT, the VAT gap is not what is making it impossible for people to come. We have a problem called COVID-19, that's the problem we have, and we have to fight it. [[applause]] Only when we control the COVID will people travel again, go back to the bars, spend again. Let us focus on that and, in the meantime: ERTE, ICO, social security grants and contributions. Support companies to endure and win the COVID together as soon as possible so that normality and economic activity return to the hotelry. Let us be honest, honest and responsible. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-02-CD210202.u58	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Matute García de Jalón has the floor in position-setting by the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-02-CD210202.u59	Thank you very much, Mr President. Rare is the time when you don't have to go up to this rostrum to denounce some kind of injustice and today is not going to be an exception. Today it's time to do what the hoteliers are suffering from, but first I want to start with a much bigger one. I want to start with a new injustice against two young Basques. [[Continues your intervention in Basque]] As I said, it is also a matter of talking today about an injustice, that of the hoteliers. Surely, all of us can agree that it is the most whipped or punished sector during this pandemic, but is there evidence to support the need for this higher punishment that they are enduring? Well, honestly, it doesn't look like it. If we look, according to the different studies, at what are the outbreaks of contagion that occur in society, we find that there are those who define the contagion in the hotel industry as a contagion that is about 3.5%, 6% in the industry - which could not be closed so that the economy would not fall -, 15% in family meetings - those that had to be promoted even if we knew that new waves would come - and the other focus is mass transport, which cannot be extended further because some have already privatized it. That is the reality we face and what we see is that with that reality we have chosen to punish the weakest. We want to show here our solidarity with the hostesses, full and uncompromising solidarity, and above all direct aid, but direct aid goes far beyond what this proposal proposes. When we talk about solidarity, we believe that we can call for that solidarity to be reciprocal, that the solidarity that we have to have today with the hoteliers, especially and fundamentally with the small and small hotelmakers, is a mutual solidarity of the entire hospitality sector so that they stop condemning thousands and thousands of people with precarious contracts when the pandemic passes. As for the direct aid to be given, the way is already being taught elsewhere. It is a matter of direct aid and it is a good thing that we are talking about it - I am referring to the Office of the PP in this case - but it is paradoxical that it is alluded here to the need for direct aid and then let us see that, for example, Madrid, today - on 25 January it was and seems that nothing has changed - is the only community that has not promoted direct aid to the hospitality industry during the pandemic. It is not that I say it - someone can say that I lie or that I do not understand the truth well - but that the Tourism Council says - is intercommissioned in a medium of communication -: In terms of direct aid we have not, so far, given any action or step. Therefore, to put aid here and where they can do not do so, let me tell you to denote a certain inconsistency. It denotes a certain inconsistency. [[Rumors]] Yes, it denotes a certain inconsistency. I don't hear you, but if you shut up it would be much easier to continue. As I told you, the hoteliers have shown more responsibility than many of the politicians here, than those who bring proposals that they then do not meet in their fields - where they could - and that others who surely punish and paralyze the hospitality sector as they run or look elsewhere, and will look to the side where the vaccines are to see if they are in a hurry to get vaccinated than the rest of the mortals. The hospitality industry has given examples, at least in Euskal Herria. There are hoteliers such as those in Gasteiz, such as those in Calle Cuchilleria, 'la Cuchi', who decided to close before a sporting event and before they were forced to close precisely in order not to contribute to any waves of contagion. They have adapted their business and made changes so that they can be updated to all the changes that have been proposed to them, but the answer has been insufficient, and in that we can agree with anyone. I don't think anyone here can say that what has been done is enough and surely no one here is going to dare to say that hospitality is a sector to be banished, but from that to say that it is an essential sector or that it has to have super-reduced VAT as it can have an essential good, I think there is a stretch, Your Honor. As I think there is at the time of trying not to cheat on us, because if we were here talking about all the hoteliers who have to close the blind in order not to open it again we probably wouldn't worry so much about lowering VAT to the big hotel chains. Some are more concerned that the large hotel chains continue to maintain their market-leading role and their weight in GDP than all those small hoteliers who are not going to be able to open the blind. I shall end with two questions. The first is that I am somewhat afraid of these debates and certain things that I hear. Directly they bring me back to that of 'let's save the summer', and the second wave came. Then they said, 'Let's save Christmas', and the third wave came. Now there are those who say, 'Let's save Holy Week', and it seems we have to prepare for the fourth wave. Stop playing Save Private Ryan and get more vaccines. On the other hand, I understand that this non-law proposal has to some extent been out of date. It was probably presented early, since if they had had the opportunity to modify it they would have put in the last star proposal of Mrs. Díaz Ayuso, which is to vaccinate the hoteliers rather than other priority sectors.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-02-CD210202.u60	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor. [[EAJPNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-02-CD210202.u61	Today it's about helping the hospitality and not being here in a pimpampum to see who's taking the time. Today the People's Party presents us with a non-legislative proposal containing a package of measures for the hospitality sector. Almost a year after the first state of alarm was decreed, what is evident, as many have already said here, is that hospitality is one of the sectors most affected by COVID. It is a crisis that has forced restrictions on the mobility and closure of hotel establishments as a preventive measure, so in this group we understand that it is necessary for public administrations to provide the necessary resources to enable them to leave and recover. It is fair to recall that, when the hotel shop, the sector, the and the hostellers were able to open, they made significant investments in order to comply with the rules of distance and others that were required of them and, when they were able to open and due to the limited hours, they made it to losses, as compensation for losses suffered during the pandemic will be virtually impossible. In this sense, we understand that cost reduction is key to their survival. [[The lady]] Last week we validated a decree of aid for the hospitality sector that we call insufficient but, in turn, necessary, because we understood that they were going to alleviate a little the dramatic situation that has been suffering. It basically consisted of a programme to reduce rents, moratoriums and tax deferrals and even new ICO lines. Of course, from here we do not say that the Government has done anything, quite the contrary, but we do believe that it is somewhat inadequate. There is much talk of other countries in Europe, such as Germany, the United Kingdom or France, where governments have injected funds directly for small businesses. It is true that the amounts cannot be compared, because the comparison between countries often does not take into account or obvious the influence that certain factors have in these countries such as mobility, cultural habits and economic development in establishing it, but there is a common denominator: the concept of direct aid, which we believe should try to apply here. Another thing will be to determine in what amounts, how and to whom. We know that local authorities are making an effort in this regard and that they have articulated aid and regulations to alleviate their situation. In addition, by having greater economic capacity, aid has been articulated in other supra-municipal administrations, such as the Basque Government, the City of Bilbao, Barcelona or Valencia, which should also have been speeded up a little further. We are also talking here about programmes to boost hospitality and commerce that have been implemented from other administrations, but we believe that they must be all involved. Having said that, I begin to analyse the non-legislative proposal. We think it is necessary, although it is somewhat extensive. It deals with various measures, but it is also true that without any prioritization. With some points we agree, others appear to be inconcrete, others have nothing to do with the competence of the Government and some should be postponed. What is clear is that the sector itself cannot be confused. For example, they talk about reductions, exemptions and allowances, taxes, IBI, IAE, which are all municipal competence. In Euskadi they are measures taken by the majority of the municipalities. You, who are also ruling in the municipalities, will be able to do so and, if not, request it in those who have not done so. But I would also like to say here to the Lordship of Podemos, to Antonia, that in some municipalities you are asking for much more direct aid, for example in Basauri, and you are also demanding sufficient and economic aid in the Basque Parliament. Therefore, I understand that here too they should be a little more consistent. As far as reduced VAT is concerned, we know the limitations of Europe, but there are also countries which have temporarily reduced it, as is the case with Germany, but it is also true that it was based on 19% VAT. On the other hand, we have our doubts about the application of this VAT, because what is considered a tourism service provider? Also because if it were to proceed downwards, once the situation had recovered, and it was to rise again, it could have a boomeran effect. I think we should look at him. They propose the extension of the repayment period up to eight years and the extension of the period of lack of ICO loans for SMEs and self-employed people, an extension which, as you know, has already been made; in order to achieve another, we would need renegotiation in Europe. I find it difficult to extend the extension to eight years without any justification, as the deadline will depend on the duration of the situation and the time required for the recovery of this sector. They propose a strategic plan for gastronomy in Spain. We think it's unnecessary right now. In short, it is about helping the sector, but with realistic and not so much populist measures. There is no need to take advantage of the critical situation in the hospitality sector to put forward measures that are not in the hands of the Government or others that will depend on how the pandemic evolves, nor as a political margin. You can't play with this sector. However, as I said, there are other measures that we find interesting, such as the Renovation Plan or employment regulation dossiers. I believe - I finish already - that it is time to make an effort and try to reach an agreement for a sector that is having a bad time and that needs additional measures, leaving aside discrepancies and political marketing, leaving aside that phrase of 'this so much I take it away from myself', without getting anything for the sector. Let us not cheat; if the GNP is approved without the approval of the groups that are in the Government, some parties can take it today...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-02-CD210202.u62	Mrs. Sagastizabal, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-02-CD210202.u63	..., but it will be short because it will not benefit the sector - I finish already - since the measures are hardly going to be carried out. If we really want to help the sector, let us try to reach consensus on the measures right now. We will set our position as soon as we have the transaction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-02-CD210202.u64	Thank you very much, Mrs. Sagastizabal. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, first of all, Mr Rego Candamil.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-02-CD210202.u65	Thank you very much, Madam President. It is absolutely necessary for public administrations to provide economic support to the sectors most affected by the pandemic. It seems unquestionable to us, especially because we are talking about autonomous and small and medium-sized enterprises. The hospitality sector is the result of those most affected by restrictions or closures in most autonomous communities. In the case of Galicia, it has been in total closure since 27 January, but with major restrictions previously, beyond the initial months of confinement. For this reason, the BNG has been demanding from the outset more public support for this sector, such as small and medium-sized trade, self-government or culture. And we have claimed it from both the Galician Government and the Spanish Government. In fact, we are submitting amendments to the General State Budgets proposing specific funds for rescue plans for hospitality, trade and culture in Galicia. But the People's Party forgets that it is one thing to preach and another to give wheat, because what does it do where it rules? In the case of Galicia, the first direct aid to the hotel industry - in the opinion of the sector, clearly insufficient - took place in November; since March, in November. Galicia was the last autonomous community to provide hospitality assistance. And recently, last week, an agreement proposed by the BNG from the councils and parliaments in which it governs, for a joint plan of the Galician government, councils and parliaments, was torpedoed by both the People's Party and the Socialist Party. Therefore, in this we ask for less demagogy and more action. We agree, not with all the measures, but with the need for a rescue plan, but we remind the PP - as I told them - that less preaching and more giving wheat. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-02-CD210202.u66	Thank you very much, Mr. Rego. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the same parliamentary group, Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-02-CD210202.u67	Thank you very much, Madam President. An innocent question to the People's Party: does Isabel know about this? Yes, does Isabel Díaz Ayuso know about this? I say this because of the news that Mr Matute said a few moments ago: Madrid is the only autonomous community that has not created direct help to the hotel industry since the start of the pandemic. The message goes also for the lords of VOX or of Citizens, who break their shirt here, but who govern in Madrid and have not created a single direct help to the hospitality. Muchademagogy and little wheat. Unlike the Valencian Autonomous Community, where the Communist Left governs - in the words of some spokesman who has preceded me -. Well, the Consellería d'Economia Sustainable Comerç i Treball, led by Compromís - very dangerous -, has today published in the DOGV a direct aid of 80 million euros for enterprises and self-employed workers of the hotel, accommodation and restoration, and also for artistic, leisure and recreational activities. And to this 80 million are added the 17 of last week, direct and complementary aids to workers affected by the ERTE. Therefore, as I agree with the substance of this GNP, I cannot stop thinking about that saying that Mariano Rajoy liked it so much and that he said in this very rostrum only a couple of years ago: Tips I sell that I don't have. Apply it to her. In Compromís we do believe that the Government can arbitrate a measure that we consider fair and necessary, that the self-employed and the companies to which we have forced to close are exonerated from paying social security contributions. It's common sense. And I end up with three very simple ideas. If the situation forces us to close the hotel shop: close, pay and, above all, do not entangle. This is not going to take pictures with hoteliers; this is going to preach and set an example. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-02-CD210202.u68	Thank you very much, Mr. Baldoví. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Salvador i Duch has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-02-CD210202.u69	Good afternoon to everyone. The Kingdom of Spain has unacceptable figures of unemployment, precariousness and poverty. COVID has accentuated what was no longer a crisis, but a reality and a normality. Twelve years after the so-called 2008 crisis, the Spanish state is champion, for example, in youth unemployment, child poverty, evictions, etc., doubling the average of the countries in our environment, and the rosary of negative figures that it could present would be endless. We are not talking about a divine plague, we are talking about the result of economic and labour policies for which both the governments of the People's Party and the PSOE are responsible, and we must say so. They have been unable to be the engine and to encourage an economic model capable of creating employment for the vast majority of the population, an economic model that goes beyond sun and beach tourism. Its infrastructure policy is a disaster. For example, our railway is the only one in the European Union and in the entire northern part of Africa that still remains, in 2021, without a European track width, which continues with industrial electricity prices that are among the highest in Europe; thus it is impossible to industrialise anything. Subpolitics of infrastructure, as I said, is a disaster. On the energy issue and all the pillars that would make it possible for industry, we are still waiting for the European closed network directive, which would reduce the price of industrial energy by 30%, to be complied with. Well, the regulation that develops this European directive sleeps in a drawer of some ministry. Then, it is the failure of its economic policies that causes this social disaster that the COVID has accentuated. And how did you accentuate it? It has hit the productive model - which was already hit - very hard, this time in tourism and in hospitality. What we would have liked here today is not a PNL; what we expected was a real emergency decree-law updated by the government to save the furniture, as far as possible, from this disaster affecting the entire tourism and hospitality sector. I repeat, we expected a real decree-law of urgency, an urgent global support for this whole sector, and not just a well-intentioned amendments to a non-law proposal of the People's Party; that is, wet paper. The sector has not billed since March 2020 and the outlook is not very optimistic. It does not act with the urgency and effectiveness that is claimed by the Republican Left and the disaster can be of magnitude never seen by this generation. It is therefore essential - as I said - an updated royal decree-law that collects the main demands of the sector, both from the point of view of small and medium-sized enterprises and of workers dependent on that sector, which are millions. Both the GNP of the PP and the amendments tabled by the government parties are, in our view, ambiguous proposals, a letter of good intentions that does not put figures on what they mean, what they tax, how they are financed, etc. What we expected - as I said - was an urgent and up-to-date royal decree with a single objective: to ensure the viability of serious companies, that no productive fabric is destroyed; that is, to prevent companies from disappearing with direct compensation and associated with the fact that no jobs are lost as an unnegotiable requirement. I want to make a reminder of something that is often overlooked. The skills in tourism and hospitality are what you call autonomous communities. The Government of the State, as long as we cannot exercise our full self-government - which is why we continue to fight - must provide the necessary economic resources to rescue this indispensable sector, and it must be the State that does so - since it is the tax collector - in the absence of a just autonomous financing law that never comes. In other words, in our case, it is the Generalitat of Catalonia that must mark its strategies for promoting destinations, products, etc.; it is the Generalitat that regulates and the State, as a great collector, that pays what it has to pay. For example, if they want to implement measures, they could start with the transfer of resources to Paradores, S.A. or Turespana to the autonomous communities, which know the territory. The plurinationality of the State, which defend some very well, or co-governance, which preach others, must move from theory to daily practice, but it is not so, and one day and another we must also remember it. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-02-CD210202.u70	Thank you very much, Mr. Salvador. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Borrego, do you accept any of the amendments tabled?
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-02-CD210202.u71	Madam President, we are working on a transaction.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-02-CD210202.u72	All right, perfect. As soon as you have the transactional, we would be grateful if you could send it to the services of the House.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-02-CD210202.u73	We now discuss the motion resulting from an urgent inquiry by the Republican Parliamentary Group on the Government's intention to resolve the political conflict with Catalonia. For the group responsible for the initiative and for the defence of the motion, Mrs Bassa Coll has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-02-CD210202.u74	Good afternoon to everyone. For years, the people and the Government of Catalonia have called for dialogue to reach a referendum and, until hours before the referendum on 1 October, we continue to call for dialogue. President Puigdemont called for dialogue before the declaration of independence and suspended it as soon as he declared it to call for dialogue again. For years, the Catalan people have called for dialogue and the response of the Spanish Government has been silence, contempt and threats, first, and beatings, repression and imprisonment, then. Violence, violence against our people, violence against our people. And yet, the Catalan people have continued to demand sit and talk, not because we are fools, but because we are democrats and pacifists; because we do not want to hate like you, shouting 'a for them'; because we believe in dialogue, negotiation and democracy, and not violence or authoritarianism. Esquerra Republicana of Catalonia won for twice the state elections in Catalonia saying that we would demand a dialogue and negotiation table and, finally, after two years denying the dialogue, the strength of the members of Esquerraconsigued that the Spanish Government accepted a negotiating table where to talk about everything. It has arrived late, very late, and those who regret it most are those who have already been in prison for more than three years, more than a thousand days with their long nights, because political prisoners and prisoners have always defended dialogue. Dialogue has come late, very late, but welcome. Regrettably, the Pandemic and some of the PSOE's and Junts per Cat's disinterests have prevented the Negotiation Bureau from advancing properly. That is why it is essential that the Republican Left win the elections in Catalonia. [[Applauds]] To resolve the conflict, a Government defending amnesty and self-determination must sit on the Catalan side of the negotiating table. The PSC justifies that our Government is in prison, so we will never make government with them, never, neither in the Generalitat nor in the Barcelona Parliament; I repeat: we, never. [[Applauds]] The PSOE will sit in front of us at the negotiating table representing the Spanish Government, but never on our side representing the Government of Catalonia, and from the parties that want independence we must at all costs avoid the PSC being in the Government. On the contrary, what negotiation could there be if Salvador Illa was president and sat at the same negotiating table in front of Pedro Sánchez? It would be a negotiating pantomime, an absurd negotiation. What could they agree to resolve the conflict if the same side sits on one side of the table and on the other side of the table? Would the Senate take to Barcelona hoping to resolve the political conflict and move on with nine people imprisoned, so many others in exile and nearly 3,000 retaliated? Really, ladies and gentlemen, this is an absurd proposal. Frankly, in the face of the political emergency, I would like to see a strong, broad-based government in defence of amnesty and self-determination, which are, as you know, the great consensus of Catalan society, the stronger the Government, the stronger we can have in the negotiation. In the Catalan elections of 14-F we also played that. I would like, compañya Borràs, compañeros de la CUP, compañeros de En Común Puem, compañeros del PDeCat, that if Esquerra Republicana wins the elections, we would try this broad path to have a strong government with which to face the social crisis and negotiation with the state. [[Continue your intervention in Catalan.-Applause]] Whether or not this option succeeds in a Government, I trust that we will at least have unity and firmness in the will for dialogue and in defending the amnesty and self-determination of the people of Catalonia in the negotiation. After years of demanding dialogue and negotiation it is not only a duty to try but it is a conviction. The republic we want to build is of words rather than of batons, it is of peace and not of hatred. But negotiation is in itself a victory for independence. If the Spanish State accepts the demands of the people of Catalonia it will be a victory for democracy; instead, if the Spanish Government proves unable to resolve the political conflict with Catalonia, independence will also win because, as happened with l'Statut, it will disappoint thousands and thousands of Catalans who still believe in a Spain that understands and recognizes the people of Catalonia. I'm finishing up. If the Government remains unattended to the Catalan political and social majority, we will be stronger and more legitimized internally and internationally for a new phase of peaceful civil disobedience in favour of democracy. You think you're winning because you have the police, the army, the courts, the prosecutors, the media, the IBEX, the Crown and the state sewers. They believe that they are winning because they applied article 155 to us and imprisoned our Government, but if they look at the election results of the last few years, it is we who are winning, it is independence.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-02-CD210202.u75	Mrs. Bassa, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-02-CD210202.u76	Yeah, I'm finishing up. You have the strength, we have the ballot boxes; as we demonstrated on October 3, you have a king, we have a people. In Catalonia, the Catalan Republic stands in front of the Spanish monarchy. We're growing, we're winning, and 14-F independence will win the ballot boxes again.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-02-CD210202.u77	Mrs. Bassa, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-02-CD210202.u78	[[He finishes his speech in Catalan.-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-02-CD210202.u79	Thank you very much, Mrs Bassa. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] In defence of the amendment tabled by the VOX Group, Mr Ortega Smith-Molina has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-02-CD210202.u80	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I confess that I find it shocking to be here in front of members of ERC, CUP, Bildu, Podemos and many others without receiving an avalanche of threats, insults, stones, eggs and even spits, as our candidates in Catalonia are having to suffer. [[Applauds]] Unfortunately, what is not shocking to us is the cowardly tyrant silence of those who justify the greatest attack on freedom, democracy, free expression, freedom of opinion; in short, to free and democratic elections and whose benches, when one hears a voice, is that of a miserable councilman who trivializes saying that what happens is that VOX wants to be considered a group victim of unjustified attacks. [[applause]] The aberrant motion presented to us at this time by the group of stone friends seeks nothing less than to put the Government of the nation on its knees to demand that it break the unity of Spain, under a purported right of self-determination and, in addition, to seek the impunity of the convicted coupsmen, under an alleged right of amnesty or pardon. And to be very clear, we cannot negotiate the foundation of the Constitution, that which establishes the indissoluble unity of the Spanish nation, the common and indivisible homeland of all Spaniards; because the purported bilaterality which they claim between the Government of the nation and the Government of an autonomous community is unnegotiable, as if it were sub-equal, as if it were of a foreign nation; because it is unnegotiable a supposed conflict generated day by day with those who are in conflict with the rest of the Catalans, in conflict with the rest of the Spanish, in conflict with the Constitution, in conflict with justice, in conflict with common sense; because it is unnegotiable a purported right of self-determination which the United Nations made very clear that it is only applicable in the cases of military invasion of a foreign nation or in the cases of decolonization. [[applause]] As we were told in Resolution 1514 - which I read again in this rostrum literally - any attempt to break the national unity and territorial integrity of a country in whole or in part is incompatible with the purposes and principles of the Charter of the United Nations. And finally, the alleged amnesty or pardon to those who violate constitutional principles is unnegotiable. Unfortunately, today's news confirms that the government, supported by the Socialist Party, and the People's Party have already closed down to these miserable demands for negotiation. Faced with this, our amendment in its entirety calls on the Government of the nation to carry out as many legislative reforms as are necessary to ensure that those who, in their statutes or in their activities, seek to violate national unity and constitutional principles, are declared illegal so that they cannot collect a euro of public funds and are not entitled to pardon, and that those who commit crimes as serious as sedition or rebellion are sentenced to life imprisonment. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] But in case it hasn't become clear to all the thugs of any color...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-02-CD210202.u81	Mr. Ortega, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-02-CD210202.u82	I'm done, President. ... against their false right of self-determination will face our legitimate right of self-defence as a nation; let it be clear to them. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-02-CD210202.u83	Thank you, Mr. Ortega. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Vehí Cantenys has the floor on the joint parliamentary group's position.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-02-CD210202.u84	Good afternoon. Thank you, President. In the past debate of Spanish Television, the former Minister of Health, now a candidate of the PSC-PSOE, Mr Illa - we want to open quotes, the former PSC, the one that 'builds a country', that no longer exists, the former PSC is already heading only from here, from Madrid -, said that the dialogue could be given only within the Spanish Constitution. The question is whether the Spanish Constitution can be a valid tool for resolving the conflict in Catalonia. Let us remember that 80% of the population in Catalonia wants a referendum and the end of repression. Well, article 2 of the Spanish Constitution, as has already been said, establishes the indissoluble unity of the Spanish nation. It is obvious that there does not seem to be a referendum on self-determination, but the interesting thing about this article is not so much the literality but the origin of this article. Solé Tura, who was rapporteur of the Constitution, explained in one of his books that while the deputies here, in this house, tried to agree on a drafting to incorporate the evident plurinationality of the Spanish State, they came to them the written article of the Moncloa - literal leo - by external pressures. Obviously, the external pressures were the military and elrey. And yes, gentlemen of VOX, let's make it clear; these people are defending an article made under sabre noise. And I'm going to tell you one thing, Mr. Ortega Smith, we are not threatened by anyone, let alone you; we are not threatened by your threats. You know why? Because independence is a political alternative, it's a democratic struggle and independence is not going to shut up because four rich thugs and representatives of the Marquis come here to threaten us. [[Applauds]] It is obvious that the Spanish Constitution with this article 2 does not serve us to resolve the dialogue. Therefore, if the PSOE continues to be obsessed with the Constitution as a tool and our people want a referendum, why continue to bet on a dialogue table that does not serve us? Our beacon is the democratic imperative, and because of the democratic imperative we need a proposal that goes beyond. We propose to you, comrades of Esquerra Republicana and also of Junts per Catalunya, an appeal to a much broader democratic society, to trade unions, to political, social and economic organizations; an appeal that can organize the majority demand of our people: referendum and the end of repression on all tracks. Because the other, everything else, unfortunately and without it being our will, only does these people a favor, is only a favor to the PSOE, because it helps them to explain that they close from above what we have opened from below. We do not want to make an intervention of these to doubt the independence of the people, you know that we do not go from this and less with you, but if the referendum is hegemonic of all the independenceist parties and, moreover, in our country, why do we electoralize a dialogue table that is not serving us? We think that what needs to be done is to return to strategic unity, what needs to be done is to return to the referendum and return to the end of the repression, and do so as an agreement between the three and, in addition, inviting the people of En Comú Pomero. Let us do this, but let us not do electoralism of the referendum or of a dialogue table that does not serve. I'm done. Independence has to be strong, it has to be an alternative. Independence must be an alternative because they have already heard these people. These people are not going to stop and they want us directly in the gutters, because this is what they stand for. Faced with this, we have to defend our people on all tracks and always, and our people are calling for referendum and self-determination. And for these people this does not fit in a dialogue table. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-02-CD210202.u85	Thank you, Mrs. Vehi. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Iñarritu García has the floor for the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-02-CD210202.u86	Sweep on, good afternoon. Thank you very much, President. Sit and talk, this is what the President of the European Council, Donald Tusk, said after the unfortunate events, after the barbarity and police brutality of 1 October. This request for dialogue has also been made by the Council of Europe, by different UN rapporteurs, by the Parliament of Catalonia and, as Mrs Bassa rightly recalled, also by the citizens of Catalonia when she was appearing on the streets saying sit and talk. Ladies and gentlemen, the political conflict in Catalonia - I say political - is one more of the many that occur in the West and throughout the world, but what happens is that now, not by chance, it has a repressive derivative. And this already says it is no coincidence because there are some who have decided to try to change the paradigm; this is to move from a conflict of a political nature to another conflict of a judicial or police nature, change of paradigm. Now there are two problems: we have to resolve the political conflict - which remains unresolved, remains the same as it was - and, in addition, to dismantle the entire repressive strategy against citizenship and against the representatives of Catalonia; continuous repression, shock theory, lawfare a la carte. It is true that the current government is not the previous one and, likewise, it is not the same position that the Socialist Party has that it has United We can in relation to this fact. Moreover, I am sure that within the Socialist Party there are people or representatives who regret having supported the repression of 1 October or even having supported with their vote Article 155 against the majority society of Catalonia, even that the speech of 3 October of the head of state seems to them embarrassing. Moreover, I am sure that many and many are ashamed that in Spain today there are still political prisoners and prisoners. [[Applauds]] But the big question is what are you going to do, what are you going to do to resolve the political conflict and dismantle the entire repressive strategy? Because you know what the problem is? That regardless of what you want to do, if you do not do so forcefully, you have others with their own agenda, you have the powers of the state, which you do not control. And they will tell me: there are some who do not have to be controlled; no, the problem is that they are controlled by the gentlemen who have spoken before and those who will speak afterwards, that is the problem. They have the judiciary, the head of state, the Central Electoral Board, the Court of Auditors and any other kind of powers, which, I say, control others trying to make their own agenda; that is, with exceptionality and revenge. It is no novelty, it is no accident that the previous president, Mr Torra, was disqualified; they have also taken action against the previous one, Mr Puigdemont; also against the previous one, Mr Mas; also against - today we listened to him in a brilliant interview - Mr Junqueras; against Mrs Marta Rovira, but it is that neither Mr Ibarretxe nor Mr Arnaldo Otegi liked some in Euskal Herria. That's why, against all these people who don't like them, they're trying to take measures to get them out of politics through the back door. I listened to the Socialist Group's candidate say, "Dialogue yes, but within the law." Let's see, this - Mrs Vehi commented - after the ruling of the Constitutional Court on the Statute and after the brushing that some gave it here, no longer hangs. There must be dialogue without limits or conditions, whether the only limit is the will of Catalan society or Basque society, because I think it is time to talk about the problem or the Spanish conflict with Catalonia and with Euskal Herria, and this is resolved with dialogue, sit and talk. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-02-CD210202.u87	Thank you, Mr. Iñarritu. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Esteban Bravo has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-02-CD210202.u88	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, it is an election moment and I do not know if it is exactly the right time for this debate because that circumstance can permeate everything. Nor is it the first time that we have discussed what is being proposed. The truth is that the operative part is very clear, very simple and very direct: it urges the Spanish Government to meet at the Bureau for Bilateral Dialogue and Negotiation with the Government, once the new Government emerged from the elections, in order to make decisive progress in the resolution of the political conflict between Catalonia and the Spanish State. We find this proposal absolutely correct, because it is political conflict, of course, of course it is, despite the fact that some people still do not accept it in this House. To resolve a political conflict, it is essential that we can speak and, at the same time, remove tension so that such dialogue can be facilitated. And, of course, it would remove much tension that the leaders of political formations could be free on the street, because there are political prisoners, yes, political prisoners exist. [[Applauds]] And that the leaders of the political parties can lead that dialogue, that negotiations, that progress, would be fundamental. To speak is to seek consensus on the part of all knowing the terrain on which they move. The other day, Minister Darias spoke a lot about the principle of legality, and it is well the principle of legality, I will not deny it, but there is also the democratic principle; in fact, the principle of legality is at the service of the democratic principle or should be. And, therefore, through the agreement the legislation can be amended. The Spanish Constitution is to solve, not to enquire problems; as such an instrument was thought of in its origins. If necessary, change, change from what may arise from an agreement. It cannot serve the Constitution or the legal system in general as a limit for the agreement and, sooner or later, I do not know when, but sooner or later, we will have to vote and the people of Catalonia will have to vote on the conditions and bases that are agreed upon in a majority manner. Sooner or later, political conflicts will have to be resolved, and we will have to express ourselves on the issues, on the future of Catalonia, in its absolute cruelty, which are being raised by the majority forces in Parliament today. Another thing is the times, the bases and the conditions, which will have to come out of an agreement. I do not know what it will do, but it should be without apriorism and being realistic but setting deadlines. Today, February 2, many of you will know that it is Candle Day or Santa Águeda, but it is another ephemeride too, in Punxsutawney, Pennsylvania, it is Marmot Day; today is the day you wait for the marmot to know what time to make. For I believe that on the particular Marmot Day in which some want to involve us, we have to talk, we have to give in and we have to agree with the gaze placed on democratic principles because, if not, we will be condemned to unsavory Marmot Day without solutions and with political prisoners, with tension and without means of solution. We must therefore move in the agreement and it is clear that we must say no to approaches such as that set out in the VOX amendment. We have already seen the amendment and what it represents: the eternal marmot. Obviously, we will vote yes and with enthusiasm. Nothing more and thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-02-CD210202.u89	Thank you, Mr. Esteban. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Espejo-Saavedra Conesa has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-02-CD210202.u90	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, the truth is that it seems that this is already arranged and it is all closed. And I would like to begin, in fact, by thanking the Left-wing Parliamentary Group for the introduction of this motion at such a favourable time and, above all, the PSOE, we can now announce their vote in favour. Obviously, it is not because I agree, that I am not, but because it makes it very clear that, in view of the forthcoming Catalan elections, everything is closed, everything is tied and well tied. Eltripartito is a fact and the breast strokes of the Member of the Left saying no, never, are the greatest demonstration that the tripartite is a fact and its support here today makes it very clear. Citizens of Catalonia, here you have it; however much the PSC and its candidate try to deceive us, we all know that the pact is closed. To see, it is quite evident that former Minister Illa does not stand out for his reliability or sincerity, we already know that, exactly a month ago, he told us all the citizens that he would not be the candidate of the PSC because it was not what he was playing, because there were better prepared people and because he could not leave the ministry at a time like this and, the next day - the next day - he said that, of course, he was delighted to be and that it was the best thing that could happen to him, leaving the management of the pandemic hanging in the middle of the third wave and in the middle of the crisis of the vaccination process, which continues today. By the way, ladies and gentlemen, 724 people died today, and the health minister a week ago has gone to Catalonia to campaign. [[Applauds]] But they don't cheat on anyone anymore. They have the tripartite closed, as they had the budgets closed and they have the pardons closed, because everything goes in the same pack. Many people in good faith have believed them, but the Catalans and the rest of the Spaniards have already taken note. We've all seen him in the last few months. When they have been able to choose, the government of Sánchez and Illa has always elected Republican Left, as it did in the State's General Budgets. I guess now they'll tell us again no. Let's remember Sanchez saying, "It's not and it's never. Do you remember Mr. Sanchez saying that? They will also hear the Members of the PSOE to say that it is not and never is, as the Member of Esquerra, who has ruled the Generalitat with the PSC for many and long years, has also said. In addition, it is also a fact that when it has been able to choose in Catalonia, the PSC has always chosen Republican Left. They are his partners in the Congress, they are his partners in the Government, they will be his partners in the Parliament and they will be his partners in the Government of the Generalitat if we allow Catalans. It is something that, moreover, everyone has been able to see, because Citizens have shown it this year. We Catalans do not deserve this and we are in time to avoid it by massive participation - by mail if necessary, given the non-delay of the elections - in these elections. The support for this motion is payment to Esquerra for his support of the General Budgets of the State. The votes for the tripartite are guaranteed and Mr Junqueras has nothing to fear and can be calm. What we are voting for is not if the Dialogue Bureau meets, but if the tripartite table which has already been tied up by Esquerra, the PSC and the commons, which are going to vote on this motion together today, because the formula of the PSC is to put Mr Junqueras and Mr Pablo Iglesias in charge of Catalonia. The negotiating table on which Esquerra Republicana speaks in this motion is the table on which the posts, chairs and salaries of the Government of the Generalitat are to be distributed between the PSC, Esquerra and Podemos, who - oh, surprise! - are today going to vote together in favour of this motion, despite the fact that they are throwing the pieces here to each other, as they do in front of the gallery, and then end up with the budgets and anything else, as they will with the Government of the Generalitat, which the Catalans already know because we have lived it. This is Mr. Illa's rendezvous schedule. After the 14-F, tripartite, the politicians imprisoned on the street and more process, because they are always wrong, but in this they are all mistaken, the governments of the PSOE and the governments of the People's Party, which, by the way, also launched the operation dialogue and the result was an illegal referendum and a law of break-up. The good thing we have is that there are a few choices that we can prevent this from happening. It's in our hands. If we all vote to say loud and clear that we do not want any more process, ERC will not be part of the government, because the PSC wants to govern with them. Esquerra is a process and the PSC wants to rule with Esquerra and that will be more process. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-02-CD210202.u91	Thank you, Mr. Mirror-Saavedra. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mrs Borràs Castanyer has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-02-CD210202.u92	Thank you very much, Madam President. As has been customary when Catalans are called to the polls, today we again occupy a possible call for the bad call - if we want to be respectful with the language - Dialogue table, because what is evident is that this Government has had no intention of dialogue with Catalonia, but it is a good time before the elections to be able to take stock, so let's do it. We thought that the Bureau was set up a year ago with a calendar of monthly meetings with the aim of resolving the conflict and concluding an agreement that should have been validated with a citizen consultation. However, this very morning candidate Illa claimed that it was only a negotiation for Pedro Sánchez's investiture. Gatopor hare, we warned you. And the evidence: it should have met twelve times, from February to February, and it's only met once and never knew again. If it had served anything, the Dialogue Bureau should have found a political solution to the Catalan conflict. To this it is to the maximum that they have come, to recognize a conflict that they generate and that adjective with the gentleness of those who run over. It is very normal from its mental framework, from which I invite you to come out and discover the concept of perspective and also that of empathy, because neither do you control it. Well, the famous Bureau had to be a space to put an end to imprisonment, exile and repression. Therefore, the starting point should be an amnesty that exempts the independenceists from a justice a la carte, the last line of defence of the territorial unity of Spain, for immediately, without hostages or extortions, to address the recognition and exercise of the right to self-determination, which has brought us here. The reality, however, is that Pedro Sánchez pulled out of the joke a Bureau as a resource to get support for his investiture and extended the resource to even get a budget approval. It was a big political marketing operation that didn't do any good. Well, it's been a waste of time, but there's no time to waste, because too many people are suffering and we have a country to move forward in full resourcefulness and decision-making capacity. You've run out of credit, gentlemen of the so-called progressive government. There are no longer promises of tables of dialogue that we create or empty statements about the political recognition that in the moment of truth are accompanied by more repression, more judicialization and more persecution against independent leaders and activists. Let us call things by their name: if there is no serious proposal to resolve the conflict between Catalonia and the State, it is because Spain lacks democratic culture. Only a country with unresolved totalitarian impulses would respond just as Spain did on 1 October to a democratic exercise of such magnitude. The Republican Parliamentary Group considers that both amnesty and the right to self-determination should not be proposed by a parliamentary group in a motion in the Congress of Deputies, but should be formally presented in the Parliament of Catalonia. We cannot agree more and we can only agree now, but now, when this Dialogue Bureau was born precisely because it should have been the subject of a joint Government-to-Government proposal, because negotiating together always makes us stronger. The Dialogue Table was not interrupted by the pandemic and the elections, as argued, because the Dialogue Table never went beyond a photograph. It was a process that the PSOE carried out to secure the investiture. He did not summon her either out of conviction or with a real will to move towards the resolution of the conflict. And I have some bad news for Mr Sánchez, because if I am president of Catalonia he will have to negotiate with me and the dialogue will not go on photos, budgets or investments. And if you don't want to negotiate, don't worry, because we have not a plan B, but a plan A: democratic obedience on October 1 and the sovereignty of the Parliament of Catalonia. Dialogue within the law, some say. We offer negotiations without more limits than democracy. We are told that we must move on, but what we must move on is the dialogue simulation and face the negotiation with capitals. Violence is the last resort of the incompetent, Asimov claimed, and until the Spanish State passes the page of the violence that it has chosen in the form of judicial repression there will be no way to start writing the solution.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-02-CD210202.u93	Mrs. Borràs, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-02-CD210202.u94	Yeah. A democratic solution to a political conflict. Do you dare? All it takes is willpower. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-02-CD210202.u95	Thank you, Mrs. Borràs. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations, Mr Asens Llodrà has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-02-CD210202.u96	President, go with Mr Smith! He threatens us with life sentences and then, like the right coward, he leaves. Last week he did the same thing, let us have his roll here, and then he left, surely to erase Francoists. The truth, ladies and gentlemen of VOX, is that your pre-constitutional amendments only lack the stamp of the Francois eagle. Faced with their outbursts of tone, we must not deviate even the least from our road map, from dialogue. However, we are going to vote in favour of this Republican Left motion, because we agree on the fundamentals. Any solution to the conflict necessarily involves building broad consensus in Catalonia, not through the narrow channels of its partner. They pass by to go to the polls sooner or later, and, sooner or later, to de-judicialize the conflict. For this it will be essential that policy is once again useful and that there is an agreement containing a solution for prisoners and reprisals. And in that you have a fundamental role to play, but so have we, because since United We can be in the Government, things have probably happened more in the last year than in the remaining five, six, eight or ten. We are the only state space that defends the freedom of prisoners, dialogue, plurinationality and the right to decide on Catholics and Catalans, and that is noted. It is noted when expansionary budgets, voted by the progressive and plurinational majority of this House, are adopted, which comply with the third additional provision of the Statute for the first time. The repeal of the Wert Law and the shielding of linguistic immersion are noted. It is noted with a Government that it is no longer a wall, that it is willing to listen, that it no longer constantly threatens the implementation of article 155 and that it recognizes the truth, that it is the existence of a political conflict that must be resolved by political means. And it is noted when there is a willingness to open the list of pardons, when it is in the Council of Ministers, or of the reform of the sedition crime, to end an injustice that should never have occurred. You, Mrs Borràs, can say that it is not enough and that we are late, and you are right; you are also right when you say that justice that is late resembles injustice and that it seems that a century has passed since the last meeting in February. But there has also been a pandemic and the order of priorities has been altered. I believe that the path of dialogue must be resumed after the elections, but in order for it to pass, we must replicate the window of opportunity that was opened at the state level, at the level of Catalonia and there must be a left-wing government that is clearly committed to dialogue. But I think that, if it depends on Mrs Borràs, the Dialogue Mass is not going to go to a good port; if it depends on Junts per Catalunya, on her right hand, who says that those who come to Catalonia are settlers, or on all those reactionary candidates of her party, who make xenophobic comments, machistas, I think we are not going to leave the day of the marmot - today is Marmot Day - the loop. The recipes of the past have failed; we cannot repeat it again, and the greatest alternative for Mrs Borràs or Mr Canadell not to be on the other side of the Bureau is that this Mrs Jessica Albiach, because we already know what the road map of Junts is; today she has said it clearly, they do not believe in dialogue. Mrs Borràs defends the DUI, which neither President Puigdemont wanted to apply and which neither CUP sees clear now. We know it's pure gesticulation, it's rhetorical, it's fireworks. And Mrs. Borràs has come here to talk about marketing operation! That's a rule-of-the-art marketing operation! It's the typical rhetoric that then dissolves in nothing, but...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-02-CD210202.u97	Mr. Asens, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-02-CD210202.u98	Yes, President, I'm done. ...doesn't stop being dynamite against the Dialogue Bureau. For this reason, comrades and comrades of Esquerra Republicana, I ask you to think well of the alliances and to look more to your left than to your right. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-02-CD210202.u99	Thank you very much, Mr. Asens. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mrs De Luna Tobarra has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-02-CD210202.u100	Thank you, President. Today, Members of Parliament, this motion by Esquerra, which follows the question presented at the last plenary session before the end of the year, is being debated with two new developments: a new Minister of Territorial Policy of the PSC, an accountant of nations, and an ex-Minister, also of the PSC, who has become the best candidate of Esquerra for the elections of 14 February; a PSC which has twice presided over the Government of the Generalitat, of which Esquerra has been a member, and governments which have been harmful to Catalonia and which have been the origin of the situation in which we find ourselves in economic ruin, legal insecurity, a breakdown of coexistence and the abandonment of constitutionalism. It all started in 2003, when the PSC agreed with Esquerra to exclude the People's Party from all State and Catalonia institutions, as well as to boost plurinationality, creating a health cord against half the Catalan population through the Tinell pacts. They committed themselves to the gradual disappearance of the State in Catalonia and of everything that would mean belonging to Spain, relegating the Spanish to education, imposing linguistic fines, incorporating the right to decide in their electoral program and ensuring that in Spain there are eight nations, nine if we add Navarra, in the words of Mr.Iceta. That's why I was telling them that Mr. Illa is the best candidate of Esquerra and his future partner, as they have no doubt that the constitutionalist votes that they get will hand them over to separatism to re-edit another tripartite. In this motion they propose to the Government of Sánchez to market on national sovereignty. I remind you, Mr de Esquerra and the Government, that national sovereignty belongs to the Spanish people as a whole. They ask the Government to sit down again and negotiate with those in their ranks who are convicted of committing crimes of embezzlement of public money and sedition, for violating the law, for violating the Constitution, with those who represent only one part of the Catalan society, with immovable, disruptive, closed, populist and anti-democratic postulates. They are asked, gentlemen of the Government, to speak about amnesty and the exercise of the right of self-determination. What is the Socialist Group going to vote on this motion, on these requests? We have a real interest in knowing the meaning of your vote, and I believe that all Catalans and the rest of the Spaniards are also very eager to vote for what you Socialists are going to vote for. Compliance with the law is consistent with democracy, the Constitution is the framework that allows us to live together peacefully in freedom and equality, a framework that you want to break. You promise to repeat that blow of ruin and discord that drove the companies from Catalonia and broke the coexistence between Catalans. They continue to say that they will do so again, and add that there will be no judges to stop them, as recently declared by their spokesman, Congressman Rufián. You defend impunity, and impunity is the opposite of coexistence. At present, the helplessness of constitutionalists is such that Catalonia has become the only place in Spain where there is no free and normal exercise of constitutional rights, where the exercise and defence of many of these rights have become a heroic or judicial feat. On the next 14th the Catalans have the opportunity to reverse this situation, to return to Catalonia economic prosperity, freedom, security, employment, coexistence, pluralism, joy and pride that once breathed of belonging to an entrepreneurial land that was the economic engine of Spain. Next day 14 the Catalans have the real right to decide whether to continue in this black hole of separatism and immobilism or to bet on constitutionalism, on plurality, on diversity, on freedom and on coexistence. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-02-CD210202.u101	Thank you very much, Mrs. De Luna. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, Mr Zaragoza Alonso has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-02-CD210202.u102	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the truth is that I had prepared an intervention that I have left aside, because after listening to all the barbarities that I have heard here I will try to answer some. The first thing I would like to say to the lords of Citizens is: a little respect. Do not applaud the number of dead; it is not cause for joy, it is cause for respect, and you have quoted the number of dead and your Members have applauded. That's not applauding. [[Applauds]] Respect - respect -, let us not turn this issue into a political battle exaggerating the arguments to bring them into self-interest, because this is an electoral debate. Let us not be fooled, we are in an electoral debate; we are not discussing solutions to problems. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-02-CD210202.u103	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-02-CD210202.u104	Here everyone comes to make electoral arguments and twist the truth to see if it fits their arguments. This is what we have heard here, apart from some other barbarity, such as that of Mr. Ortega, that a little more and asks us to give them a hundred whips, cut off their heads and hang them in spades. What's that about self-defense, what the far right did by assaulting the Capitol? In this country there is a rule of law and it is the judges, non-political, who decide how the laws are applied. [[Give it up.]] That is democracy and democracy is based on dialogue and respect for elections. In truth, I was surprised to hear the representative of Esquerra Republicanaquestion him saying: what would it mean for Salvador Illa to preside over the Bureau of Dialogue by the Catalan Government? For he has won the elections, that the citizens of Catalonia have voted and have decided that he is the president of the Generalitat. [[Applauds]] What's the matter? That's democracy! Perhaps what happens is that it is not a problem of discussion of who represents the Government of Catalonia, which seems to be the problem, then, what is it, of parties? I think it has not been well expressed, because Mr Illa has also announced today what he is going to do as President: he is going to convene the Bureau, the Bureau in Spain and the Bureau in Catalonia. Dialogue is what will lead us to solve the problem. A versi we understand: to dialogue, to listen to the other, to the one who thinks differently. Or is it that the Government of the Generalitat only applies to a Bureau of Dialogue when it is chaired by the independenceists? What a democracy that is! And they lose, they lose. I've heard some very funny things, but, of course, listen to the People's Party and forget how it all started. It began with the People's Party supporting Mr. Mas for two years his budgets, and from those dusts came these muds. More and Rajoy are at the beginning of the conflict and the conflicts are not solved by ignoring them, the ostrich policy does not lead you to any solution; what leads you to the solution is dialogue, is what the citizens say. What happens is that in the election campaign we don't want to hear that citizens ask you to listen to the other, you want to say fat, to see how I take the hyperbole and turn it into a bigger conflict than it is. That's what there is. They do not make criticisms too soft or discord or even irony, they go to rude disqualification, to pure and harsh insult, to shameless lies, which is what they have been practicing to justify their nos to dialogue, their nos to end the conflict. Do you know why they don't want to end the conflict? Because they're very comfortable in their trenches. It's very comfortable being in the trench and shooting at the one in front of it, it's very comfortable, it's very easy; you have the one in front and you disqualify and insult it, I say it fat and I applaud mine and then what? The conflict continues and there are some parties that say they are facing a lot, but that they are looking forward to following the conflict because if the conflict disappears, their political support disappears because they lose. But this is over, on February 14th - I say it because someone has said that Catalans will have to vote one day - they will vote democratically and on February 14th the citizens of Catalonia will give themselves confidence, future and hope, and on February 14th it is over, but the conflict and the deep use in the confrontation is over. What we are looking for is trust, a solution to our problems, concern ourselves with the economy, health, the pandemic and give us all a truce to solve the problems of the citizens, which is what they expect, trust in ending this conflict, not keeping it alive. I have heard here too many voices on the right side and on the side of radical independence, that what they want is for them to follow the conflict because they think that gives them votes and what they don't realize is that they get people to be part of them. So on February 14 in Catalonia, we will vote and win. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-02-CD210202.u105	Thank you, Mr Zaragoza. Mrs Bassa, do you accept your group's amendment?
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-02-CD210202.u106	No, Republican Left does not accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-02-CD210202.u107	Thank you very much, Mrs Bassa. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] - the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress, on the management of the minimum income. [[File number 173/000046]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-02-CD210202.u108	We continue with the last point we will discuss today, the motion resulting from an urgent inquiry by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, on the management of minimum living income. Mrs Angulo Romero has the floor for the initiative's group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-02-CD210202.u109	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are again talking about the stark social measure of a master government in misleading advertising, but unable to offer solutions to the problems and that with minimum vital income it has reached the height of incompetence: to fail in the management of something that the autonomous communities have been managing for years, which is what happens when the priority is ownership and propaganda. Today, again, they will come down here to whitewash their social deception with new self-amendments, slogans that do not feed or with the amendments of the lords of the PSOE and of Podemos that nothing concrete and what they do is delay the solutions. They live disconnected from reality and occupied, as they walk, in their interests of party and power wars, giving urgent solutions to a country that bleeds in life, in employment, in unemployment and in poverty is not their main concern. [[The Lord]] While Mr Iglesias, the biggest political fraud in democracy, has become one of those who increase the differences between those who have more and those who have less, and Mr Escriva justifies his failures with excuses of bad student, blaming others and making up the data, out there, in real Spain, life is becoming more and more difficult. According to Oxfam Intermón, 11 million people already live below the poverty line, almost 800,000 more than a year ago; 1.2 million households have all their members unemployed; 300,000 workers do not charge their ERTE; and today, a chilling fact: Spain in the abyss of the 5 million unemployed, employment in Spain in the ICU. We are living a social drama and the government is not that it does not react, it is that it brags. And in this harsh context, they are denying the triple of the minimum vital income they grant. Let us see examples provided by the Government: Extremadura a poverty rate of 38%; of the total applications submitted, 18% granted, 81% refused or not resolved. And since we were talking about Barcelona, it is a real scandal: of the more than 88 000 applications received, only 8% were granted, and six times more, 50% were refused. Gentlemen of the PSOE, tell Mr. Illa, no vaccinations and no social vaccinations. But there's more. The progressive government is not that it cuts, it is that it directly eliminates families in moderate poverty the family assistance to which they have so far been entitled, the child allowance, and leaves them without anything, without vital income or benefit. Look, ladies and gentlemen, it's not just the COVID, it's that other virus that for the Spaniards supposes to have the worst possible government, that of economic sangria, that of unbearable destruction of employment, an antisocial government that eliminates aid, goes up the light, makes choice between eating or buying masks, which prefers to allocate 71 million euros in hiring friends as advisors, while cutting aid to the poorest families. Today, here in Congress, we can avoid that decision of the government at the worst time. They support our motion to recover the child allowance, because we can all do so. [[Applauds]] Stop wasting more time with the propaganda, because it is necessary to strengthen resources and reduce bureaucracy to speed up the files. If it has not been difficult for you to set up the procedure for the management of European funds, why is it that of the IMV? Perhaps, and it is my opinion, first, for your experience in setting up customer networks outside of any control and, second, because in avoiding poverty and job loss you always fail. [[Applauds]] That is why we ask you to have the experience of the autonomous communities and the municipalities which Mr Escrivá too proudly despises and to sign the partnership agreements on income, on equal terms and with sufficient funding. If you don't know, let yourself be helped by those who do have experience. Ladies and gentlemen of VOX, we are talking about partnership in management, as already exists in other social security services, not about transferring the competences of social security. I ask everyone to read our motion: to recover rights, to strengthen public services and collaboration between administrations. Can anyone oppose that? What excuses are there to oppose it? Look, we've approved the minimum living income to help the worst people who are going through it and ease their access to employment. It is the progressive government that has failed; it has failed the families that take out aid, those who do not receive the ERTE, the self-employed who do not lower burdens, also the merchants and the hoteliers, the Spaniards who every day send to unemployment with their decisions. Mr Sánchez told us that we would come out stronger and left the abandoned Spaniards to our fate. Today, with 80 000 dead, with 80 000 more people in poverty, with 5 million unemployed, with 380 000 self-employed people with their blinds down, with queues of growing hunger, a decent government would have asked for forgiveness. I do not expect that from Mr Sánchez, but at least from you I hope that you will contain your triumphalism by respecting those Spaniards who are out there. Recognize that their policies do not work because destroying the economy is the worst social policy. We live a real social drama; it is essential and urgent, precisely and especially for the weakest, to commit a plan of shock and recovery, such as that which Pablo Casado has been demanding for a long time, to save lives in health, economic and social terms. [[applause]] Those who with their decisions become, by action or omission, accomplices or co-workers of a Government that is causing so much harm and pain, because it has only achieved more unemployment and poverty. Ladies and gentlemen, hunger and despair also die, and the decisions that are taken contribute to this. I ask you, please, to rectify, because if not, we will not only come out weaker and poorer, it is that - and what is more serious - there will be many Spaniards who will not come out. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-02-CD210202.u110	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Matute García de Jalón spoke in defence of the amendments put forward by the groups, first of all by the Parliamentary Group Euskal Herria Bildu.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-02-CD210202.u111	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, many things were said by the representative of the People's Party with whom it is difficult to disagree. That poverty has to be an outstanding subject for anyone who is committed to political action or commitment to improving people's lives is unquestionable. Against that little can be said. One could say more, one could say that minimum living income has to be the basic social protection network, the last resource for not falling into poverty and social exclusion that we certainly do not want for anyone. This has been done for years, if not decades, in different realities in which we know more, in the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country, through the GIR, and in the Foral Community of Navarre subsequently through guaranteed income. In both by action of the Basque Government - that is so - but it is no less true than in both because there was a deep social mobilization which, in the case of the Basque Autonomous Community, corresponded to the Charter for Social Rights, Gogoa, which already raised the citizen's basic income. Therefore, this is not a new debate that has come into the pandemic because the need has forced us. And now, once the vital minimum income, that the social income of some kind, is more or less settled by the government, what it would be about is to be prestigious, to assume it as a redistributive value and not as a burden; not as an expense, but as an investment in our society, thus avoiding its stigmatization, because - I will make a spoiler - the next episode that we will find, when the vital minimum income is more or less strengthened - I would like to contribute to continuing to be guaranteed after the pandemic - it will be that there will be forces on the right that will question the vital minimum income and talk about fraud to try to load it. We have already experienced that, and, as we have experienced it, we have pointed out it. That is why I continued to rejoice over what I was listening to the representative of the People's Party. But let me tell you one thing: it is at least curious that you now defend the minimum living income when about seven months ago you called it 'paguita' disrespectfully. I won't be the one to tell you this time about the conversions to the tail. In any case, it is good for you today to defend minimum living income. [[Mr. Garcés Sanagustín makes negative gestures]] I prefer to be glad that you defend the minimum living income, with the exception of Mr Mario Garcés, who I assume through his vote will disagree, as he says he will not. As I say, it is good that in general, or that the person who has defended this proposal defends the existence of minimum living income, because every time there is a social advance the right takes many years to connect or to get attached to it; on this occasion, fortunately, it has been only a few months. And that is not obvious, however, to point out that at present the minimum living income remains insufficient. Today the Council of Ministers has had to rectify on the move for something they have already been saying to it from different social groups, and it is that the minimum living income and the demands that are being put on it were leaving a lot of people out. Those people who were staying out were in a situation of vital exceptionality, were in poverty and, therefore, an injustice was being committed. In the same way that it has been Intermón Oxfam who has had to point out to the Spanish State that since March the number of poor people has risen by more than 860,000 and that they already reach more than 5 million in the Spanish State; in Euskal Herria, Basque Autonomous Community, and Nafarroa more than 188,000, we are therefore faced with a need. We have tabled an amendment which in theory - and I heard what I heard - would not have to represent an obstacle to the proposing force, because we propose through this amendment to ensure that 'all autonomous communities can assume equal conditions for the processing and/or management of minimum living income'. I think something very similar, if not identical, said his lordship. We say more. We say 'also transfer within a maximum period of one month, and in the terms already laid down' - it is not a question of amending what others have agreed, but of strengthening that idea; as would be said, what abounds does not damage - 'the management of the minimum vital income to the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country and the Foral Community of Navarre, thereby complying with the agreements reached between the Basque and Navarro Governments and the Government of the Spanish State'. In short, pacta sunt servanda, which is something that in the Spanish State we have begun to learn - that it is not much done but not harmful - that it is to fulfill the given word, with this and with everything else with what is agreed. But as I said, if this amendment is proposing that any autonomous community should have the resources to manage the minimum living income and to stop those resources to the people who are in need, we would not understand that this initiative is not being taken, unless we have met once again - and it is certainly not going to be the last - with a new staging of a goodist discourse, of a discourse I would almost say that humanist and, above all, charitable that in the background hides the historical rigidity of the right. In order not to be anticipated with the famous wild, I will tell you that there was someone, who was not suspected of being from Bildu, there was something like this and that poverty is the worst form of violence. Mahatma Gandhi.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-02-CD210202.u112	Thank you so much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Garrido Gutiérrez has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-02-CD210202.u113	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, the coalition government's agreement included the gradual introduction during this legislature of an income guarantee mechanism throughout the state, but the pandemic forced urgent action. For the first time, policies to respond to a crisis - in this case to the pandemic - were not geared towards cutting rights, but rather providing greater protection for those who were experiencing the worst. It was about adopting new rights. In this way, the Government took a historic step by generating a new social right, a guarantee of income throughout the State to address the situation of social exclusion and economic vulnerability in which many families were found. This income, and we cannot forget this detail, is a land of income, which means that the autonomous communities that have important competences in social assistance and social services, and have in many cases also approved income income, have to continue to assume responsibilities and provide resources to complete, improve and extend this benefit, according to the specific needs of each territory, of course. Having said that - I am now addressing the People's Party - ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, they have the nerve to come up here to criticize the minimum living income, and I try to explain myself. What kind of insertion income do you have in the territories in which you govern? Well, I'll tell you. The Community of Madrid, where you have been governing for a few years now, has the lowest minimum income of insertion in the State, but it follows Galicia as a second, where you also govern and, thirdly, is Andalusia. But not only do they stand out for having low incomes in terms of amounts, but they come very little to this vulnerable population. We could quote Andalusia, which reaches 3.2% of the population on the poverty line; Galicia, 6% and communities such as Castile and León or Madrid, which barely cover 10%. What do you plan to do now that the minimum living income arrives? Are you thinking of complementing the provision so that those families who live in Madrid or Andalusia or Galicia have more income and can live with more dignity, or are you thinking that you are going to save a few millions that are going to dedicate to those pharaonic projects, megaprojects, that you like so much? That would really be the question. Well, while you are doing all that, here seven months ago a minimum vital income was approved and, since then, we have continued to bring new developments that improve the processing and management of that minimum vital income. We can cite the Councils of Ministers of 22 and 29 December; we could also name some other improvements that have to do with processing and management, such as the extension of the collectives to which it can reach, for example by quoting some is extended to more than sixty-five years who cannot receive the non-contributory pension; the definition of the single parent family is improved. Today, the Council of Ministers adopted new measures that further improve this minimum living income. The limit of two minimum income holders per domicile is removed, so from now on they will be able to receive that minimum living income, which is a new right, people sharing flats due to lack of income. We know that homelessness leads many people and families to the need to share a home. Also people who have to return or share home with relatives due, for example, to eviction and we have also thought about homeless people. In addition, in order to facilitate access to minimum income, social services will be able to certify compliance with certain requirements such as the living unit or the home. The amendment we are submitting to this motion points in that direction to continue to assess and implement improvements that will help make this new right a better right. For example, we are talking about developing a new service, simplifying all processing and documentation, improving cooperation with the Autonomous Communities and local authorities. I'm done. We will continue to work and advance in a social protection model that leaves no one behind. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-02-CD210202.u114	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Cañizares Pacheco has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-02-CD210202.u115	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Gentlemen of the PP, they voted yes to the validation of the Royal Decree 20/2020 in an exercise of inconsistency that we could call 'yes, but no'. They considered that the Royal Decree did not comply with their claims, claiming that the Government appropriated autonomous powers, doubled the benefit and, lastly, did not offer sufficient guarantees, and concluded that the most correct decision should have been to boost an emergency temporary income. Welcome to VOX, because our proposal ensured that a structural measure of this scale required proper planning and that, at this time of death and ruin, it was urgent and priority to really care for the Spanish and to stop propaganda. [[Applauds]] And if so in disagreement with this royal decree-law Podemos-Scriptiva, why did they give a yes as a pin cup to this government to implement the star measure of Podemos? By responsibility? Wrongly? With that yes, you have become, therefore, correspondents of the Government in the management of minimum living income, according to the logic of your Kafkian and surrealist discourse. [[Applauds]] Yeah. But it is that, moreover, you bring us a motion that contains quite a few contradictions, although the representative of the People's Group has said no, because in the motion you talk about asking for more human material means, simultaneously assigning management powers to the autonomous communities, creating a fund for the municipalities, etc.... I think we have to focus because we are not to waste or at least explain the formula. We have tabled an amendment which they have not accepted, but in one thing we are going to give them the reason: in the disastrous management that this government has made with the minimum living income, as well as with the residences of the elderly, the confinements, successive alarm states, the hospitality, the masks and an endless list of demeanors that have paid with their lives many and, with their ruin, the rest. [[Applauds]] When you questioned Minister Escriva, gentlemen of the PP, you constantly repeated the terms, discoordination and incapacity; but what did you expect of this government? I would add something even more serious, and it is that the starting budget for the introduction of minimum living income is wrong, because there is a deliberate improvisation and a total absence of necessary planning, which is nothing more than the guiding principle of this government's policies: empty refrigerators and a lot of BOE's role in which families neither eat nor pay rent or light bills. The numbers? The Council of Ministers promises an anti-poverty vaccine for 850,000 households, in which 2.3 million people live. How many have they come to? 130 000 households, families sentenced to live on 472 euros a month. There is no doubt that the most emblematic feature of this Government is to do just the opposite of what it promises. And in the case of Mr Escrivá, develop policies contrary to those which he himself recommends. The minimum income study published in 2019 by AIReF, then chaired by Minister Escrivá, highlighted that experience shows the complexity of developing minimum income programmes during the crisis, since in practice the only effective way to implement them is to do so before the crisis takes place, because doing so on time shows a progressive lack of adequacy of benefits to people's needs, and does not eradicate the underlying problem. Therefore, an optimal design that the AIReF itself recalled was to frame its ongoing proposal for the minimum income system into a medium-term budgetary plan to compensate for the structural increase in expenditure. What have they done? Just the opposite of what Mr Escrivá considered essential when he was independent. We agree that combating poverty is and must be a priority objective in any civilized social order, but a policy aimed at achieving that goal must be shaped with the ultimate aim of providing sufficient opportunities for citizens to live by their own means, and this is called employment. It is the best protection against poverty that exists, and in Spain we cannot boast of it. Today's figures: more than 3,970,000 unemployed in our country, 710 000 more unemployed people in addition to the 740 000 who are under the uncertainty of an ERT. It's the second worst data in a month of January since there's been records. According to Eurostat, 40% of the increase in unemployment in the euro area is concentrated in Spain, as four out of ten new unemployed in Europe are Spanish. Today, the Government of Spain is the largest unproductive employer in developed economies; a government that prefers the employment subsidy, the confinement to work and the health elections. [[Applauds]] I say to you, and I finish: neither the sanitary cords nor the stones nor the insults will be able to silence the voice that appeals to freedom, to the truth. Not a step back, fearless of anything or anyone. Long live Catalonia and live Spain. [[Prolonged applause by the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, on the ground]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-02-CD210202.u116	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, Mrs Baños Ruiz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-02-CD210202.u117	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Mrs Angulo, you seem to care a lot about poverty when you do not manage, but you do little when you have an obligation to do so. Can you tell me what Mrs. Ayuso has done with that management model with all the children who infravive in the Royal Cañada? Nothing. [[Applauds]] The People's Parliamentary Group presents what we are discussing here, a motion resulting from an interpellation that starts, as always, from invented premises, from data taken from context that do not correspond with any of the reports on minimum living income and, moreover, with a radicalism that only pursues the destabilization, as always, of institutions and the wear and tear of democracy. In all their interventions they obviate, omit and pass from all the social and economic effects that this pandemic has caused in our society; they only blame the Government for everything, they never mention the effectiveness that to maintain economic activity and employment have had the ERTE, and I say the ERTE as all the measures that have generated a great deal of work, among others, in the area of social security. They do not recognize the work done by Social Security, an institution fully decimated and aged by the paralysis of the public offer of employment when you were in your Government; yes, the cuts of the People's Party Government. In short, ladies and gentlemen, we know that all the management is capable of improving, but this government, which you hate and criticize so much, is committed to combating poverty and for this it is implementing this new right which gives cover to more than 180,000 households, arriving, because you have the wrong figures, in some territories to more households than the autonomous minimum income, as it happens in Andalusia or happens in Murcia. You, therefore, who, when you are governing the poverty gap by making the rich richer and the poor poorer, are now announcing a catastrophe in the entire social security system by launching a measure against poverty and social exclusion. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, what really bothers you is the redistribution of wealth because it is what the socialists do when we govern, to redistribute wealth, and not as they do in the region of Murcia who put the vaccine first and those who are ruling. [[Applauds]] If it is necessary to continue to improve this benefit, as has already been said by the previous speaker, as has been done today in the Council of Ministers with other new measures to implement and improve it. Ladies and gentlemen, we know that it is necessary to improve the unity of the coverage of families with children, but the minimum living income does not leave out the protection of the system for recipients of the child benefit; all it does is to redirect access to a new benefit whose vocation is to absorb the former because it is much more effective. In this respect, we must emphasise that, in order to combat poverty, minimum living income is better served by reaching the most needy families, since the data tells us that 10% of the richest households receiving this family benefit have, in addition to housing, an average wealth of more than EUR 100 000. The minimum income transforms the EUR 500 per year of family benefit into EUR 500 per month. You will have to acknowledge, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, that this benefit contributes better to the redistribution of wealth. However, we must continue to make progress, and hence the amendment we have tabled precisely, that amendment which seems to have not been read, an amendment which says what the impact of minimum living income on families receiving this benefit or who might be eligible for this benefit should be. Lastly, such collaboration with the Autonomous Communities was essential. We already know what some of the autonomous communities have done, some denying information, others blocking aid and freeing up funds earmarked for small income to other income earners. And that's not complementing the minimum living income, that's cheating. The minimum vital income came to be supplemented with the minimum income and there cannot be territories that wash their hands and do not collaborate. Ladies and gentlemen, last week we managed, despite you, to bring EUR 140 billion of European funds to our country. They will also serve the fight against poverty, despite the People's Party and its clumsiness. [[Applauds]] We manage the crisis by thinking about people and here we continue and we will continue. The minimum living income has come to revolutionize the world of social benefits and we will continue to evaluate and improve it, no doubt, as we have done so far. We'll keep working, despite his sticks on the wheels. And allow me, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Group, to tell you one thing: if you do not want to cooperate in Congress, do so in the autonomous communities where you govern. Complement this new right and help us fight poverty. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-02-CD210202.u118	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr García Adanero has the floor on behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-02-CD210202.u119	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Is it so hard to recognize that something is being mismanaged? It is better to recognize it and look for solutions for it to be managed well. We voted in favour of minimum living income because we understood that it was a good thing. We've had Navarra for many years. It was implemented by a government of the Navarro People's Union - not another government, but a government of the Navarro People's Union - and I say this to those who seem to be only entitled to talk about it - as a re-guarantee, i.e. guaranteeing rights - if the requirements are met, you charge it, regardless of the budget allocated - and with more money than the minimum living income. It seemed to us that it was a good thing for the whole of the Spaniards and if we understand that it is good for us and it can be extended to the whole of the Spaniards, we agree, but, of course, then you can't be a chaperone managing it. They say there has been no collaboration with the Autonomous Communities. For the Foral Community of Navarre is presided over by the Socialist Party and the Government of Spain as well. What's going on? That there are people who are charging two times and then, logically, they claim it. So what happens? That in turn there are people who are not charging anything, who charged one, asks the other and now does not charge any. Therefore, some are getting two things beyond the complement and have to return it, and others are uncollected. And they say, "No, well, it's paperwork." Yeah, but the one you have to charge don't talk about paperwork, because the one you have to charge needs the money, huh?, that we're talking about the most vulnerable people. And they say, "No, it's just that Social Security doesn't provide enough." Yeah, but that's not an excuse for a person who has to charge, who has to eat. And they say, "No, it will come to you." But when will it come to you? They'll have to give him the money. And instead of disheartening here and saying: You are right, this is a measure that is having many problems, it turns out you say that there is no problem. So, because they don't recognize the problem, they're not going to solve it, and if we don't recognize the problem and we don't solve them, those people will still be uncollected. To adopt the measure - that is - the ministers were stuck; now, for management, no longer. It depends on this one, it depends on the other, and no one assumes responsibility. Recognize that this is being a disaster in terms of its execution. We believe the measure was good, but its execution is being a disaster. Put your hands to work. Put in the necessary personnel and put in order, that you also do not find it so difficult to cross data between one Administration and another. They ask the municipalities to cooperate and stop making speeches saying that if the right comes then they take it away, because I insist again that in Navarra who put this it was the Union of the Navarro People, despite the votes of those who are now called very progressive. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-02-CD210202.u120	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Barandiaran Benito has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-02-CD210202.u121	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Some have remembered that today is Marmot Day, which I care very little about. But, in another plane, it must be remembered that today is also Candelaria Day, which at least is a holiday in the Canary Islands and, moreover, in Donosti is the day of the Caldereros, which is the prelude to the carnival. I say this because it seems that some have transfigured this rostrum, rather than a model of parliamentary intervention, into an electoral rostrum. I don't think that's good or convenient at any time, and even less to generate tension in a climate that is already sufficiently rare. On the subject, Mr Prohens said last day to Mrs Prohens that minimum living income had been created as a mechanism to reduce the unacceptable rate of poverty and inequality that existed in Spain and that the European Union had warned that the State should take decisions and take action. The minister also recalled that, for that purpose, all the autonomous communities had created a minimum income, but that he believed that some were more expensive in the gallery and practically - he said - had no impact on poverty reduction. However, as a model for the creation of this minimum guarantee, Spain's most probably better developed minimum income, he said, was the income guarantee of the Basque Country. Ladies and gentlemen, the success or failure of a measure aimed at alleviating inequalities in income or in the pockets of poverty depends, among many other reasons, above all on two factors: the closeness of the administration to the problems - that is, its knowledge of the reality and, therefore, the application of the principle of subsidiarity - and the effort that as a society we are prepared to make to alleviate that scourge, that is, the social investment that we are willing to make to reduce these inequalities. That - which is measured with the Gini index, which serves to measure inequality, or with the Arope index, which serves to measure the level of poverty - requires special efforts that probably also have a certain parallelism even in the law of creation of the minimum income vital, because it is not strange that the fifth additional provision contemplates what I will read below: Because of the specificity of the existence of foral estates, the autonomous communities of foral regime will assume with reference to their territorial scope the corresponding functions and services that in this royal decree law are attributed to the INSS of the minimum income vital before 31 October 2020. Two areas: financing and collective will to overcome this scourge. This explanation comes first, because there is an amendment by Bildu which I believe was a mistake on his part. I understand that they inadvertently forget the root of this competition in the Basque Country and, therefore, pretending to homogenize it, I think they have made a small mistake. But, secondly, it also comes well as a reference for the ministry, because the date of October 31 has passed far more and has therefore ceased to comply with what is committed in the law itself. I would like to remind the Minister of this failure and that the transfer of the provision of minimum living income to enable it to be linked to other social security schemes, as is the case in the Basque Country, must be implemented as soon as possible precisely to the Administration which is best aware of these problems and which, as he himself recalled, has been the focal point for the creation of this benefit; that is, those who have historically created an effective social protection system with their own characteristics and their own funding. I mean with this that there are many autonomous communities that are claiming it, but they must want and be able to do so and not just manifest it for the sake of a level of competition, but because they really want to deepen, allude to and address that problem of poverty and inequality. What happens is that the minister has denied us that transfer at the moment, dissociating the functions that the INSS currently performs from those of the funding itself. We understand that this is a misinterpretation of the content of the law and that, moreover, it involves defrauding in some way the agreement which allowed my group to vote in favour and the acceptance by the Basque Government of that transfer formula. In addition, as regards funding, there is an error, since there are already precedents for the management of retirement and invalidity benefits by outlaws. Therefore, we understand that it is a disparate, from the competitive point of view, that this transfer is denied, because it has no justification whatsoever. We will vote not on this initiative, but not because it seems too far from reality, but because it seems opportunistic and out of context. The minister himself referred to the need for an added effort to deal with the minimum living income in these moments, but that is not why I wanted to stop being critical of the ministry's performance. Indeed, it is failing to fulfil its own obligations, which mark it by law, the status of autonomy and the first additional provision of the Constitution itself, to transfer that competence. He himself said that the model of success is the Basque and Navarro model. I therefore call on both of you to transfer these powers immediately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-02-CD210202.u122	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Giménez Giménez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-02-CD210202.u123	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are once again debating in this House the minimum living income, one of the government's key measures, so that we can address the reality of families living in a situation of greater social exclusion. It is a policy that was being implemented in some autonomous communities and has been under way since May. It has been nine months and, therefore, we believe that it is time to make an assessment, with objective data, of what is happening with this benefit. The provision was launched in a hurry, without the necessary preparations, and we are now seeing these effects. I'm sorry it's a measure that hasn't just taken off. We have to consider what the data is. Some figures, ladies and gentlemen: Alministery reaches approximately 12 000 applications per week and, in total, there are only about 160 000 households benefiting from minimum living income, but it turns out that the number of approved dossiers does not yet cover the total number of families with minimum income in the autonomous communities. About 50 % of the applications processed have been refused and there are still 270,000 dossiers to be examined. They are objective data that clearly tell us that this measure is not properly dealt with, that it is not properly implemented. As we say, it is one of the most necessary measures to address severe poverty, which unfortunately many Spanish families are going through. From Citizens we already said that we were faced with a complex measure, that we could not enter as an elephant in a cacharreria and the risks that ran. But we supported this star measure because we understood the reasons that justified it. However, one year later, applications multiply, the requirements are cumbersome and a very large part of applications are rejected, as I said. The result is that the goal of reaching 800,000 households is far from being met, as only 160 000 families have been reached. And it has to be borne in mind that half of these 160,000 families correspond to those families who received the child benefit. We believe that what is useful is to face this and give solutions. It is important that this situation of minimum living income should be deactivated. To that end, this measure should already be in this House. We would have to have a serious debate. Citizens want the design of the service to be simplified. The vital minimum income has a very complex design. Its requirements are so far-fetched that, in some cases, they do not allow for the assessment of situations of need. Ladies and gentlemen, we are addressing a population that is suffering from severe poverty, the most excluded population in our society, the population that is not accustomed to raging procedures. Let's be realistic! Let us not put bureaucratic barriers to those most in need of this benefit and less accustomed to administrative procedures. With this, the first point: to eliminate this farragous bureaucracy. Second point: seek allies. It is very difficult for Social Security to make the minimum living income work in a unitary way. Aid: the autonomous communities, which already have experience in measures of this type; also the third sector of social action, which knows the groups to whom these benefits are intended, has its hand - hold it!- both for processing and for then the continuity of this measure, which are the routes of insertion and the routes of inclusion. That's not what we're talking about because the measure isn't taking off. From Citizens, what do we propose? A practical measure to unravel this situation. Which one is it? That, exceptionally, the minimum living income is recognised for persons who are beneficiaries of a minimum income of autonomous integration. It's a measure we just registered today. Why? Because they are already families who have accredited to our Administration, in an objective way, situations of difficulty, situations of poverty. So let's do it right; it will be one of the formulas by which the benefit will reach households that need it and the resources will be allocated to manage the minimum living income, ladies and gentlemen, for all those families that are still outside the system. I will end by referring to the dependent child benefit, which has disappeared with the minimum living income for families with children without disabilities. As we have already said in the proposal for a law that we have tabled, it is a measure that must be renewed, it must be reinstated, it must be returned and it must remain. Why? Because the recipients are different. While there is a proposal - as has been said before - to see how it is resolved, if a good integrated benefit system is established, do not leave those families of relative poverty who need support for upbringing and address their children's poverty without child benefit, because that is what they are doing: while they process it, they leave many families behind.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-02-CD210202.u124	Your Honor, you must go ahead and finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-02-CD210202.u125	Therefore, we bet on that proposition that we have fought with the whole third sector and that we consider essential. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-02-CD210202.u126	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-02-CD210202.u127	Thank you very much, President. Just a little while ago, Mr. Smith complained about the assaults he received in Catalonia. This very morning, Mr. Espinosa de los Monteros spoke of the thundering silence of all the parties and also called us cowards. Well, ladies and gentlemen of VOX, open your ears; from Compromís we unequivocally condemn any aggression against any person, any party, whether VOX or any party, who wishes to exercise their democratic rights. So, Yano will be able to call me a coward or speak of thundering silence. However, every 9th October, National Day of the Valencian Country, people of the same ideology, for forty years - forty years -, physically and verbally assaults politicians, people who manifest themselves peacefully, journalists. Let us hope that there will not be the thundering and cowardly silence of VOX in these attacks of people of their own political profile, who are ever worthy to condemn them, and will have many occasions because there the far right - ausades, my life! - makes them theirs. And we move on to minimum living income. I believe that we all share the same diagnosis, and it is that the expectations generated by the minimum living income, unfortunately, have been disappointed, especially because of the exasperating slowness that has prevented these aids from reaching in this very critical situation precisely the people who needed it most, the most vulnerable people; and, moreover, this slowness also affects parliamentary processing. The royal decree was adopted on 29 May, it was validated on 10 June, it was processed as an emergency bill and we have been amending it for eight months. I agree with many of the points that appear in the PNL of the People's Party - and I don't fall for the rings - but we want to place special emphasis on two. First, you talk about strengthening personal media. Replenishment rate, does that ring a bell? This has prevented many administrations from replenishing all those people who were retiring and, therefore, many public administrations, starting with the municipalities and ending with ministries, are in many cases below the rate they should have. Of those dusts, these muds. And as far as transfers to the autonomous communities are concerned, I totally agree. We defended him from the very beginning. We ask to contribute from the autonomous communities - the spokesman of the PNV now said -, first, our experience, and secondly, our proximity, our knowledge of the situation. Therefore, completely agree. We have tabled many amendments, we have talked to many social organisations and we have collected many proposals, especially from an organisation such as Caritas. A motion for VOX is being discussed here tomorrow. I hope that when you discuss these contributions from an organization as unsuspecting as Caritas on the exclusion of people in an irregular administrative situation, VOX, the PP and all the parties on the right, who are so Christian, will do what an organization like Caritas asks them to do. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-02-CD210202.u128	Thank you so much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Salvador i Duch has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-02-CD210202.u129	Good afternoon. Minimum vital income; one more week it's up to you to talk about minimum vital income. Frankly, I think it would be too easy to go out here and make a list of unfulfilled promises by the government in this matter. We could talk about young people, people in irregular administrative situations, the homeless, families who are forced to share housing; we could talk about so many things that would bring the colors to this government that is almost unnecessary. Ladies and gentlemen, people are tired of hearing us discuss this issue completely redundant over and over again. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, people are even more tired of seeing how electoral promises are not being implemented. I will make it very clear: there is social consensus for the functioning of the minimum living income, there are resources to carry it out - we approve it in the budgets -, you have the mandate and the votes of this House, do it!, do it! In addition, they have an unprecedented project in this House, they have support that has never been seen before: the minimum vital income went forward without any vote against, with the only abstention of the extreme right. Do it! It's been eight months since this story. It is so indisputable to say that passing a vital minimum income law was a right - it is - as to say that its implementation to date has been a huge failure. I think we're not up to it on a subject as delicate as that of people who are affected by this minimum living income - I use the word vital, of life - people who can't wait, people with whom you can't fail, people with whom you have to have the maximum sensitivity possible. Minister, I would ask you how many beneficiaries of this new benefit you announced that there would be at the end of the year and how many there have actually been. I don't ask you to answer me, but I want you to understand what we're talking about. I will confine myself to pointing out the two great reasons which, from our modest point of view, are derailing one of the best political ideas of this Parliament: one is bureaucracy and the other is money. As far as bureaucracy is concerned, with the royal decree-law approving the minimum living income, I believe that it comes to a bureaucratic framework that seemed to be expressly designed so that social investment could not be implemented, the truth. For example, taking into account only the revenues of 2020, putting this income into operation without coordinating with the income of the other public administrations, putting in place access requirements that represent an insurmountable barrier for people in a situation of social exclusion, causing a dull effect and leaving thousands of applications unanswered, which are automatically rejected by administrative silence. None of this makes any sense. As far as money is concerned, you have made an absolutely inadequate budget forecast. But in the face of these two basic problems, we make two very simple requests. Against the problem of bureaucracy, first, we must abide by the pacts and then negotiate politically. That is, if you agreed with the Republican Left that there would be an immediate transfer of the management of the minimum living income, do so; we ask you, we demand you to comply. The covenants are to be fulfilled, don't delay because people can't afford it. Having said that, please process the royal decree-law that ended the government as a bill, because we have been too long. They allow the groups of the Chamber to discuss their content, sit down and negotiate, which have much to improve and do not enjoy an absolute majority. Secondly, against the problem of money, we are not going to demagogueize, we are not going to review all the absolutely outrageous budget items from which these millions could be drawn. Again, I think it is obvious that it is not necessary, but, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, remember that this is a social investment, it is investment in wealth redistribution and in combating inequality and injustice, it is a vital minimum income, as I said, of life. Pocabroma. Thirdly, as Mrs Dolors Bassa said, the best social protection policy is job creation. [[Applauds]] To get out of this crisis, it is urgent to put in place a state plan of work and activity that ensures that all households are free and that unemployment is reduced to full employment levels. That's what you have to do, I'm not saying a social-communist policy anymore, but a Keynesian policy, an urgent shock plan that you already touch. It is not enough to reduce the structural parostructural by a further 10, because the figures that this State has are unacceptable must be reduced. That said, Republican Left wants to remind you of one thing: if you continue like this, you will not always have us at your side in the minimum living income. This is a simple non-legislative proposal and, as a government, we have already been shown the importance they attach to this parliamentary instrument: none. If you do not fulfil what you promise - and here I do want to be strong - do not expect to have our support in any other new vote on minimum living income. We've come this far. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-02-CD210202.u130	Thank you very much, Mr. Salvador. Mrs Angulo, do you accept any of the amendments tabled?
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-02-CD210202.u131	No, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-02-CD210202.u132	Thank you very much. The vote will take place on their terms. We'll vote in three minutes. I remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that you will only be able to vote from the seat that corresponds to you, identified with your name on the screen. I would also remind you that those Members who have been authorised to vote for the telematics procedure cannot do so from their seats. Thank you so much. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-02-CD210202.u133	Ladies and gentlemen, we shall proceed to the vote. We voted to take into consideration the proposal for a law of the Galician Parliament, an organization for the transfer of ownership and competences from the AP-9 motorway to the Galician Autonomous Community. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 106 plus 232 telematics votes, 338; in favour, 106 plus 181 telematics votes, 287; against, 51 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-02-CD210202.u134	Consideration is given to the proposal for a law. [[Applauds]] The meeting was suspended. Thank you very much and good night. It was eight and five minutes of the night.
