ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-13-CD210413.u1	The meeting was called to order. Prior to the consideration of the agenda, we shall proceed to the oath or promise of compliance with the Constitution in accordance with Article 20.1.3 of the Rules of Procedure. In place of Don Pablo Iglesias Turrión, I ask Dona María Mercedes Pérez Merino if she swears or promises to abide by the Constitution.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-13-CD210413.u2	I promise.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-13-CD210413.u3	In place of Marta Martín Llaguno, he asked Don Juan Ignacio López-Bas Valero if he swears or promises to abide by the Constitution.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-13-CD210413.u4	I promise.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-13-CD210413.u5	Dona María Mercedes Pérez Merino and Don Juan Ignacio López-Bas Valero have acquired the full status of deputies. Congratulations. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-13-CD210413.u6	In accordance with rule 68.1 of the Rules of Procedure and as agreed by the Board of Spokesmen, this Presidency proposes to the plenary of the House the amendment of the agenda to exclude item 32, corresponding to the debate on the whole of the proposed organic law reform of the Organic Law 5/1985 of 19 June of the General Electoral Regime, for the regulation of the exercise of the vote by Spaniards living abroad. Does the House remember that? [[Consent]] The amendment to the agenda was therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-13-CD210413.u7	We begin with the debate on the full proposal of the Parliament of the Balearic Islands for the reform of Organic Law 1/2007 of 28 February on the reform of the autonomous status of the Balearic Islands, for the abolition of the suffocation of the deputies of the Parliament of the Balearic Islands and the members of the Government of the Balearic Islands. That is why we are joined by three representatives of the Balearic Parliament who make up the delegation that will defend the proposal and whom I welcome on behalf of the House. For the presentation of the initiative, I give the floor to Mr Juli Dalmau de Mata, first of all.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-13-CD210413.u8	Thank you, President, for your words of welcome. Thank you, President, for your words of welcome and good afternoon to all and everyone. On June 12, 2018, the initiative that has brought us here today was registered in the Parliament of the Balearic Islands. On that day, the fifty-nine members of our Autonomous House signed a joint initiative proposing to amend our statute of autonomy in order to abolish the suffocation enjoyed by the Members of the European Parliament and the members of the Government of the Balearic Islands. This initiative has the unanimity of all parliamentary groups represented in the IX Legislature; it is clear in its objectives, solvent technically and legally and indispensable in the political sphere. In this sense, both the Spanish Constitution and our statute of autonomy regulate the legal form of aforamiento, a prerogative that today is perceived by a large majority of society as a dysfunction of the highest principle of equality before justice. Therefore, and in accordance with the competence of our autonomous community, neither Members nor Members, nor the President or President of our Government, nor the rest of its members should remain outside ordinary jurisdiction. At present, in our autonomous community, we are about seventy people who are caught up, that is, those who enjoy differentiated legal treatment in the case of being tried, since we can only be prosecuted by the Supreme Court or by the superior court of our autonomous community. Possibly, this prerogative made some sense during the years in which our democratic system took its first steps. In fact, as my group colleague and current President of the Parliament of Les Illes Balears, Mr Vicenç Thomàs, stated in the debate on taking this initiative into account in our House, the outbursts of the representatives of Spanish citizens are the fruit of a country, of politicians and of judges at a very determined moment, which is the moment of the transition; a moment of certain weakness and political uncertainty. Therefore, they can be interpreted as a certain defensive mechanism. The problem is that there has been so much expansion of the figure that, in today's view, there seems to be an incorrect understanding of what the immunity of a politician should be. In the same vein, Professor María Luz Martínez Alarcón says that strenght constitutes an exception to the principle of equality before the law. This is the first reason that moves us to promote the modification of our statute, to eliminate those prerogatives and to break the idea of that distance that is being sought between politics and those who exercise it and the citizenship to which we represent. In fact, the stake for the suppression of the outbursts responds to the framework of political and democratic regeneration promoted since 2015 by our autonomous Executive, led by President Francina Armengol. At this point, I think it is important to point out that together with the Canary Islands, Murcia and Cantabria, Balears has been a pioneer in approving the amendment of its fundamental autonomous norm in order to put an end to a privilege that is out of date and difficult to fit into article 14 of the Spanish Constitution, on the equality of all citizens before the law. If we turn to the words of Professor Martínez Alarcón, we discover that the world of drilling in Spain is extremely complex and diverse, but neither that complexity nor that diversity must be an obstacle for them to take this initiative into consideration today and allow for its final approval. In this regard, I think it is important to remember - and with this end - that this same debate has already been held in this House on 19 February 2019, and if today the suppression of the fighting in our autonomous community is not a reality, it is only because of the dissolution of the General Courts that took place a few weeks later in the context of the convening of the general elections on 28 April 2019. Today we are opening a new opportunity to complete this whole process and, therefore, we need your support for this initiative with the will that the General Courts maintain the same unanimity as in our Autonomous House. We have waited the time necessary to be able to materialize the suppression of strangulations, but we also hope that much sooner than later it will be a reality. Thank you all very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-13-CD210413.u9	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] The next item is Mr Juan Manuel Lafuente Mir.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-13-CD210413.u10	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. For the second time, as a Member of the Group of the European People's Party and on behalf of and representation of the Parliament of the Balearic Islands, it is my duty to defend a change in the status of autonomy relating to the abolition of the elections of deputies and members of the Government of the Autonomous Community. In this way we implement, as has been said, a unanimous agreement of all the political forces in the Balearic Islands. Many times, unfortunately, the absence of controversy seems not to be news that remains an interest in political decisions, but we understand that this is not a right, but that precisely in institutional policy we should be proud to find once in a while unanimous lines and visions such as today's pretension, which calls for changing the status of autonomy. I would like to see on other occasions, on important issues for the Balearic Islands, such as the special Balearic Islands regime, that we also achieve those agreements. It will henceforth be for the General Courts to reach that level of agreement on the initiative coming from the Balearic Parliament. Stuffing, as has been said, is an alteration of the rules of objective and functional jurisdiction of the courts for certain persons, not only established in the statutes of autonomy, but also in the Organic Law of the Judiciary or in the Law of the State Security Forces and Bodies. All the statutes of autonomy at the time, in the autonomous process, decided to include the severances in the statutes themselves. Otherwise, it seemed that autonomy was not full or a second level autonomy. On the other hand, in the Balearic Islands we have had the debate on the question of settlement, we have had a broad debate, with experts in legal matters and professors in constitutional and procedural law, and after the broad debate, the basic conclusion has been that we must modernise our legal system, we must modernise our status of autonomy and we must abolish settlement. It makes little sense and makes little sense to maintain the stumbling blocks, and more so if we compare ourselves to countries in our environment. The main reasons for our position are because we believe in the independence of the judiciary; we understand that we must work increasingly to achieve a more independent judiciary; we believe in the democratic quality; we believe in a modern state; we believe that it is necessary to deepen the improvement of our institutions; we believe in the rule of law; we believe that Spain is an advanced and consolidated democracy, and we believe in the principle of equality. We therefore believe in the political participation of citizens, of all citizens. Political representatives are simple citizens, we are neither class nor caste, we are simple citizens who are dedicated to public service on an ad hoc basis and therefore we must have absolutely no difference. And if there are differences, these have to be perfectly justified. We see with joy that other autonomous communities are also beginning the way of suppressing the outbursts and we encourage the autonomous communities and the State to coordinate the policy in this area, to abolish the outbursts throughout our country, throughout Spain. We believe that the progressive reduction of the stalemate is a way to modernise our democracy, to modernise our legal system, and it is also a way that is fully within the constitutional principles: it has a perfect fit in article 14 of the Constitution - the principle of equality -, article 23 of the Constitution - participation in the public affairs of citizens - and article 24.1 - the right to the ordinary judge of citizens. This initiative is inspired precisely by those constitutional principles. So, ladies and gentlemen, you will allow me not only to appeal to the exercise of the power of self-regulation of the institutions of the Autonomous Community of the Balearic Islands to call for the abolition of the suffocation, but above all to call for these fundamental constitutional values also to be invoked in order to call for the amendment of the autonomous status of the Balearic Islands, which has been unanimously supported by the Parliament of the Balearic Islands. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-13-CD210413.u11	Thank you so much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Then you have the word Don Josep Castells Baró.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-13-CD210413.u12	Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen, for devoting a little of your attention today to the approach we bring you from Illes Balears; a fragmented, poorly financed island territory, with a fragile economic system, dependent almost exclusively on tourism, which in turn entails a precarious labour market, access to housing which is the most difficult in the whole State, in addition to being, as you all know, the territory most hit by the social and economic crisis caused by COVID-19, with a fall in gross domestic product which doubles the fall in the state average. To all this let us add that some territories, for example, Minorca, suffer serious problems of connectivity, real problems, practical, day-to-day for families and also especially for the competitiveness of industrial enterprises that would have to be the alternative to this model of tourism monoculture. So I'm talking to you about some Balearic Islands that have nothing to do with that happy Arcadia that many imagine. As a justification for why we are bringing here today the elimination of the outbursts, let me give you a simple brushstroke of the idea of the party to which I belong, Més per Menorca; an insularist party that joins the green left and sovereignism in Menorca. Més per Menorca fights for green reconstruction, for social cohesion and for the rights of the Menorcans, but also for democratic radicalism, which necessarily ends corruption. As you know, and very unfortunately, the Balearic Islands have been part of the map of corruption for too long. Well, today we come here to ask you to help us get the Balearic Islands to become part of the map of democratic radicalism, to end once and for all with a privilege, such as that of afforestation, which we consider absolutely obsolete in the middle of the 21st century. The Members, colleagues, who have spoken before me have given rise to some of the fundamental arguments behind this reflection and initiative. We have talked about the historical origins of the figure, the contradiction with the principle of equality - the basic and fundamental principle of our Constitution - the background to other statutes of autonomy and also the arguments of opportunity, the overwhelming unanimity with which the Parliament of the Balearic Islands processed and approved this proposal, and the misadjustment of the figure with the times we live, as I have already mentioned. Let me stress, therefore, what I believe is the hard core of the reason why we want to eliminate this strenuousness, and it is that strenuousness is nothing more than a piece of the machinery of corruption in Spain and also, of course, in the Balearic Islands. Without stifling, there would be corruption? There would probably also be corruption, unfortunately also, but that does not mean that it is a source of what we could call 'Commissioner Polis', to emulate the Italian Tangentópolis and to make reference to the fact that it has not been a juxtaposition of multiple cases of corruption what has happened in Spain, but rather an operating regime that, unfortunately, has contaminated broad layers of politics in Spain. It is, of course, difficult to quantify the impact that suffocation has had on corruption, because suffocation operates on the psychological perception that there are opportunities for impunity, that there are circuits, that there are channels to influence judges who will necessarily know about specific cases. To these perverse effects we must also add that they have basically protected corrupt politicians from majority parties. Obviously, I do not want to say that all the politicians of the majority parties have been corrupt, but it has happened to corrupt politicians of the majority parties for the simple reason that it is these parties that over the years have had the capacity to influence the appointments of the highest judicial body and, therefore, to influence the appointment of judges in the higher courts. It is, therefore, difficult to quantify the incidence of suffocation in that sense of impunity in politicians of the major parties, but what is evident is that the proposal we bring here today is necessarily virtuous: that we all be judged by the predetermined judge. So simple and transparent is what we have come to propose to you today, so I ask you, on behalf of the Parliament of the Balearic Islands, to take into account the amendment we propose to you of our status of autonomy. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-13-CD210413.u13	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Gutiérrez Vivas has the floor, first of all, for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-13-CD210413.u14	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, everyone. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Balearic Parliament, welcome. It's a pleasure to have you here. There are issues that are capital, fundamental and unnegotiable in our essence, in our way of being and in our DNA as a political force and, moreover, many of them were the personal motivations that pushed many colleagues in this parliamentary group and this party to take that step towards active politics by leaving aside our professional activities. Undoubtedly, one of the fundamental reasons, among many, were the legislative reforms that we can and need to push to change and correct totally anachronistic situations, such as the case we are dealing with, the case of the outbursts that, in the end, became privileges for politicians and that society in a majority no longer accepts or shares or understands; legislative reforms that allow for progress in democratic quality, transparency and a separation of formal and real powers that strengthen judicial independence and improve citizens' perception of our justice system. Ours, Citizens, is a modern, liberal, progressive, reformist, renewing and regenerating party, a party that is committed to finding new solutions to the new challenges posed by the 21st century. The inability of the old bipartisanism, which, with different majorities, could undoubtedly change the situation of these sleeping privileges and did not, forced us to take the initiative. In fact, when we arrived at this Congress, we have always introduced in all our government agreements the need for the elimination of outbursts, for them to be eliminated at the national level, not only in the autonomous parliaments, but also. Every time we reached an agreement in an Autonomic Parliament with a government, under those conditions there was always the elimination of strangulations. We are pleased that the Conservatives and Socialists have joined this proposal to eradicate these privileges of centuries past, but there is something paradoxical, ladies and gentlemen, that someone should explain. Why do conservatives and socialists support this measure in Baleares, as they did in Murcia, as they did in La Rioja and as they did in Cantabria, but in this Congress and in the Senate they do not want to hear any of this? Why does it seem good to you that your colleagues should give up this privilege, but do you not feel right to give up? Why do you still follow in this absurd historical rigour that means maintaining the stumbling blocks in the Congress of Deputies and in the Senate? Why don't you guys want to change any of this? I'll tell you one thing, gentlemen of the People's Party. The Madrid government agreement was to eliminate the stalemate for the Madrid Assembly, the Madrid Government and the Presidency of the Madrid Community, and Mrs Ayuso never wanted to take this to the plenary of the Madrid Assembly, never; neither Mrs Ayuso nor any of the members of the People's Party who, as she had a majority in that Governing Council, ever wanted to take this to the plenary. Why does it seem good to you and you are going to vote today in favour of Baleares eliminating the outburst, but not your Madrid colleagues? They'll have to say it and explain it. They did not want you, as you do not want to do in Andalusia and as you do not want to do in Castile and León. In all those communities where you rule... [[Rumors]] No, no, I'm telling you Castilla and León, I'm telling you Andalusia and I'm telling you the Madrid Community. They also have their own, of course they do, but you have a lot of guilt that these stumbling blocks are not eliminated. And in Madrid they have it. So do not come now to give lessons of good governance and good governance, to really want to amend laws, to really want to reform things and to really want to be liberal and reformist, because it does not hang, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, it does not hang. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, we have to keep moving forward. We are presenting measures in this House for the depoliticisation of justice and for the fight against corruption. We bet on changing the election of the judges and judges of the Constitutional Court, the General Council of the Judiciary and the Office of the Attorney-General of the State. We bet on protecting officials who will put us on the trail of possible cases of corruption; on the elimination of harassment, as we have already talked about; on the limitation of mandates; and on ending pardons for political corruption. These are the profound reforms that this country needs and these are the profound reforms where we find the old bipartisanism happening again in power and very comfortable in this expired alternation. Far beyond the stage of being in distant ideological positions, you always come to an agreement when we are talking about this, as you have done in Spanish Radiotelevision and as you want to do in the General Council of the Judiciary. They are always agreements not to reform and not to change things, so that everything continues as always. Because that's the tradition of conservatism, isn't it? Keep going as usual. I conclude, Mr President, by re-emphasizing our satisfaction with this consensus reached in the Balearic Parliament for the elimination of the procedural forum and for Members of this Parliament, as well as the President and the Councillors of Government, to comply with the law exactly as the rest of the citizens do. I hope that this initiative, which will be supported mostly in this House, will extend irremediably to the rest of the autonomous parliaments, but of course also to the Senate and to this Congress of Deputies, which is what the citizens are really waiting for. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-13-CD210413.u15	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Jover Díaz has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-13-CD210413.u16	Good afternoon, President. In the first place, I would like to welcome the representatives of the Parliament of the Balearic Islands, who give us the opportunity to discuss today in this Congress a much needed debate not only at the autonomous level but also at the state level. I'm very proud of Mallorcan. Welcome. Ladies and gentlemen, it is an honour for this political group and for this Member to defend this statutory amendment as a result of the Governance Agreements between Podemos, PSIB and MÉS of 4 June 2015, to which the rest of the political parties joined. The original figure of the hanging was born in England in the feudal period linked to the status of parliamentarian, and its main objective was freedom of expression and freedom of assembly before the king. The French Constitution of 1791 contains inviolability but not stifling. In Spain, the appeasement was introduced with Pepa, the Constitution of 1812, by including in the text that criminal cases against it could not be tried but by the court of the Courts, and in its articles 124 and 125 it indicated the prohibition on the king remaining in the Chamber during the deliberations. The main function of the figure of the strike was to protect the deputies from the executive power, the king, who was seen as the great enemy of democratic freedom. This prerogative was the guarantee that the protected person would be tried by a higher court, which, in principle, should be less vulnerable to political pressure than a court of first instance. Ladies and gentlemen, surely none of you are going to doubt that this is not the end of the struggle today. As evidence, it is enough to remember how Mr. Cosidó presumed before the senators of the People's Party when he said: It has been a great move; we will control the Second Chamber of the Supreme Court from behind. They would have to face shame when they hurt the United Nations. We can put on the table that there is no democratic normality. To be suffocated means to be tried by a different court, altering the rules of jurisdiction by appointing a higher court for the mere fact of holding a public office or profession. Let us not forget that there are also judges and prosecutors, among others. It is clear the interest of some political parties in the control of the judiciary and its politicization, as well as their refusal to renew the General Council of the judiciary in the face of its innumerable cases of corruption pending judicially - unicusality, certainty - but they will continue to criticise that United We can say loud and clear that there is no democratic normality. If we compare the Spanish case with other states in our environment that have only one or none, it is clear that our situation can be described as anomalous. Apart from the Spanish state, there are no members of the General Courts or much less deputies in local parliaments or legislative assemblies. It should be remembered here to the convenience Europeanists that in Portugal or Italy only the President and in Germany is caught up, which shows to his ladies and gentlemen that if it is not stolen, there is no need for such measures or inviolability. [[Applauds]] This amendment to the Statute of Ballear Autonomy arises from the demand and the accumulated fatigue of the good people of Balearics, tired of so much politics involved in corruption processes, using this privilege as a mechanism to dilate and avoid the resolution of judicial proceedings. On the islands they are well known, they are the ones who cut in health and education while building lifts in uncamped areas. It is a corruption that has fallen on the backs of workers, self-employed and SMEs, the backs that lift our islands. Surely Mr. Casado must know the retahíla of cases; if not, Mrs. Prohens can update you: cases Andratx, Bonsái, Bon Sosec, Cursach, the Rats, Noos, Opera, Palma Arena, just to name some and not tire them out. This suppression of suffocation is a necessity for politicians who have decided to turn it into an area of immunity and impunity in order to continue to elude the country and, instead of working for the general interest, to work for their interests or for those of those who pay for the campaigns. In the appearances in the committee set up in Parliament, all the experts in criminal, procedural and constitutional law had a unanimous opinion: severance must be abolished because it alters and distorts the constitutionalization of the principle that we are all equal before the law and, therefore, we have the same rights and duties when it comes to accountability to justice. Abolition of suffocation will help to dignify the balar policy, challenged by so many cases of corruption, and will bring the institution closer to the citizenry. Ladies and gentlemen, this may also be the time to launch the elimination of constitutional outbursts, as well as the king's inviolability, because they are a democratic anomaly, because we are all supposed to be equal before the law and because we must have very little shame to defend the contrary. Eliminating suffocation means, for those who are watching us at this time, that politicians will be tried by the same judges as the rest of the citizenry, not by any special court, without distinctions, without privileges, as the rest of the citizenry. For this reason, the elimination of the suffocation of the deputies of the Balearic Islands is a historic fact that eliminates a political privilege. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-13-CD210413.u17	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Salvá Verde has the floor for the VOX Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-13-CD210413.u18	With the venom. Ladies and gentlemen, I came here with a very clear message of principle and I do not want to start my speech without repeating it: Bildu must be illegalized. [[Applauds]] Once I have said this, I will address you in Mallorca, not in Catalonia: Welcome here, in this Parliament, and many thanks for being here. Today we are discussing whether the elected Members of the Parliament of the Balearic Islands, as well as the figure of the President and the advisers who make up his or her executive branch, should continue to be caught up or not. This is a reform of the autonomous status of the Balearic Islands proposed in the previous autonomous legislature - at which time VOX did not have representation in the Balearic House - and which was elevated to this House for debate and vote in December 2019. As we have already stated on numerous occasions - and I am doing the same today on behalf of the VOX Group in Congress - our vote will be in favour. The abolition of the suffocation of elected and executive positions is an idea that is imposed on political colours; it is and must be a priority. This is an issue on which the urgent and the necessary coincide. And I take advantage of this rostrum to claim that the suppression of stumbling blocks does not sleep the dream of the righteous in a bureaucratic limbo. If we go to it, we go to it truly, resolutely, without excuses and with the force that gives us the obligation to eliminate privileges that, although legal, are improper in a free and democratic society; rather than improper, I would dare say unacceptable. I insist, this is a principle that does not understand ideologies or, at least, not ideologies of which we are within democracy. The dignity of a society is not measured by the amount of its principles; it is better to have few but firm principles than many that fluctuate and stagger; principles that are born and die as a result of tweeting, according to the wind blows on social networks. Suppressing strangulation is not a policy of title, it is a real policy. And it is for a simple reason; it is not necessary to be a lawyer or to have studied laws to understand the democratic anomaly that it implies; the housewife, the plumber, the nurse, the waiter, the retired, even a doctor like me, we all know that it is not right. Ours has been, is and must remain a society in freedom and equality, and this is largely possible thanks to our Constitution and the laws. Never should the collective be imposed on the individual; never can the collective enjoy benefits over the individual. Unfortunately, it has been too long for those of us who are in the exercise of politics to be perceived by much of the citizenry as a privileged collective, and we are, because our privilege is that we have been elected to represent the citizens, all of us, those who voted for us and those who did not; that must be our only privilege. I will give you a well-known example, no doubt repeated on a thousand occasions but not for that reason less valuable. Surely they remember the passage of the novel Rebellion on the farm, of Orwell, in which the leaders of the animal revolution rewrite the egalitarian principles of their new society - it is one of the most ingenious moments of a novel that criticizes totalitarianism, especially that of Joseph Stalin -: 'All animals are equal, but some are more equal than others'. The animals, perplexed, see how the leader they considered an equal becomes a tyrant. If I may, paraphrasing Orwell and so that his lordships of the United Nations can understand it clearly: We are all Vallecas; some more Galapagar than others, and as in Rebellion on the farm, before the henman gets upset, let it be clear that I have not called anyone animal or tyrant, however far it has been until recently. [[applause]] With this I would like to make a request that goes beyond what we are dealing with today and to announce our vote in favour of the abolition of drilling in the Balearic Islands, and that is to ask that this measure be applied to the rest of the territories of Spain. We have legal tools for that, let's not postpone our duty. There is nothing wrong with recognizing the right that benefits us all; political tacticalism does not move us. Taking advantage of the fact that we are in this, I encourage you to have the same openness when VOX makes proposals, some know that they are positive and still veto them because of the absurd health cordon. They don't hurt VOX, they hurt the Spaniards. Equality is the word. This government that we have is a pompous and inoperative Ministry of Equality that competes with the Ministry of Science and Innovation and with Vice President Calvo. If this was to regenerate politics, it gave them their paradise. Do you want equality? Start by renouncing the stumbling blocks - we live in the 21st century, no matter how many people want us to go back to the Paleolithic - and trust the stones more than the words. Yeah, I know the carpet throws a lot, but the reality is in the street cobblestones. Pass them, don't throw them at anyone's head. Unlike you, I do not wish a dose of reality to anyone in the form of a dookin, just as I have not wished to anyone that ETA murdered his son. [[Applauds]] Because that's not a reality, it's hate, and hate is non-equality. Without empathy there can be no equality, and democracy must be respected and believed. Ladies and gentlemen of the left, I will give you a very clear message: when there is no political argument against the adversary, it goes on to insult, from insult to violence and from violence to crime, and I have suffered it. Thank you. [[Prolonged applause by the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, on the ground]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-13-CD210413.u19	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Jerez Juan has the floor. [[The lady]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-13-CD210413.u20	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, I would like to associate myself with the words of welcome addressed to the three Members of Parliament of the Balearic Islands who are accompanying us today. For years the figure of the drilling has not been free of controversy. This institution represents for a broad social spectrum an unnecessary privilege to which the political class is subject. Citizenship, political parties and the General Council of the Judiciary have different conceptions about suffocation, but they all agree to point out the negativity they create and are in favour of its elimination. The case law points in another sense to the fact that the shape of the stake is as positive as it is necessary, and states that the stake does not correspond to a particular interest but rather to its raison d'être lies in a general interest, in order to protect the balance between the different powers. The ruling of the Constitutional Court of November 2016 states that the severance act as a tool to safeguard the institutional independence of the Government and parliamentarians. The debate is served and is not free of conflicting views and versions, more from the perspective of privilege rather than from the perspective of safeguarding institutional interests. Therefore, I think it is important to make two reflections. Firstly, should we consider suffocation a privilege when it represents for suffocation the loss of rights that the rest of the Spanish citizens have recognized? You are well aware that anyone who maintains the status of execution is tried exclusively in the first and only instance and has no right to appeal against a possible conviction that would be unfavourable to him. Do you consider this a privilege? And the second reflection is that which points to the politician as the sole beneficiary of the prebenda, when the truth is quite different. Do you know how many outlaws there are in Spain? More than 250 000, of whom 232,000 are members of the State Security Forces and Bodies; more than 17000 judges, judges, prosecutors, defenders of the State and autonomous people with their deputies, members of the Council of State and other high institutions of our nation; and only 0.7 per cent of the total belongs to the political sphere. [[The Lord]] In view of these reflections, the People's Party would have liked this debate to have taken place within the framework of a much broader agreement on the need to eliminate the pitfalls, to settle all these roughnesses or edges; an agreement for all and not just for some. A long-sighted debate that did not create asymmetries among such because of their membership in an autonomous community or another; that did not create politicians of the first and politicians of the second; that all were subject to the same criteria as the pre-determined judge, and not that different laws pointed out different pre-determined judges. The reform of the Murcia Region, that of the Autonomous Community of Cantabria and today that of the Autonomous Community of the Balearic Islands have gone through three different forms. Well, perhaps today is the time to call on the Government to reach a comprehensive agreement among all the political forces that promote the reform of all the organic laws that include this figure. If we do not do this, we will continue to be a country where the gap and differences between equals continue to widen. So far, the President of the Government, Pedro Sánchez, has merely proposed gaseous reforms that have not been implemented at all. He did so already in the last quarter of 2018, to stop a proposal of Citizens that was being advanced to him on the left. He immediately announced an express reform in sixty days to reduce the mass of bulldozers in Spain. Nothing is known about all that. Shortly afterwards, Pedro Sánchez reissued that unfulfilled promise and incorporated it into the coalition agreement: we will reform the Constitution to limit political outbursts by limiting it to the exercise of the function by the public office - says the coalition agreement between PSOE and United We Can -. Do you know anything about that agreement? Do you know anything about that agreement? Silence, silence. Mr Autonomous Members, you will return tomorrow to your land - which is mine - and you will say that, at last, the reform has begun that will allow politicians to judge them from now on other different judges. They will say that we have managed to regenerate public life and that the islands are now more democratic than before. I will not be the one to deny these truths because it is true, and least of all I am one of those Members who voted in favour of this procedure, but let us be aware and have our feet on the ground; the solution to the problems of the Balearic Islands does not happen alone and only because fifty-nine people stop being beaten. What citizenship is asking for on my land today is quite different. The citizens of the Balearic Islands call for a strong autonomous government to defend them and not for a weak government to abandon them at the worst time of all. The citizens of the Balearic Islands call for their region to cease to be underfunded and for fair and supportive investment rates to be established. The citizens of my land, the Balearic Islands, call for an autonomous government to fight for their vaccines and not give up so much. The citizens of the Balearic Islands call for the recognition of the official staff assigned to the Balearic Islands as a salary supplement equivalent to that of the Canary Islands. The citizens of the Balearic Islands need a special regime of the Balearic Islands to be approved in order to compensate for the cost of insularity. And the citizens of Baleares need more certainty in the face of a tourist season that is expected to be complicated and on which the livelihood of many families depends. This is what my land needs today and this is what the Balearic Islands need today. To begin today the process of reforming the Statute of Autonomy in order to eliminate the sufferings in Balearic Islands represents a great gesture, necessary, yes, and unequivocal submission to the law, and in that way we will always be, there they will always find us. But let no one be misled or misled; what we need in the Balearic Islands is for the economic recovery of a region decimated by a pandemic and a very controversial way of ruling to begin as soon as possible. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-13-CD210413.u21	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, Mr Pons Sampietro has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-13-CD210413.u22	Thank you, President. Before we begin, Mr. Jerez, Mrs. Prohens, do you ask for a solid government? You, who were deputies of a whaler president who is now in Citizens and is in Brussels because he cannot go any further? But what are you telling me? What are you telling me about a solid presidency if you have the President in Brussels and Citizens. [[Applauds]] By the way, Mr. Gutiérrez Vivas, were you ruling in Madrid with the PP? Well, what are you complaining about? Or have they been spectators for the past four years in the community? So much talk about strangulations and they have not been and are not expected. If you want things to change, you can start having a different vision from May 4. [[Applauds]] Thank you very much. Welcome and thanks, Josep Castells, Juan Manuel Lafuente and esteemed Juli Dalmau. [[Continues your intervention in Catalan]] Ladies and gentlemen, the reform proposal submitted to this House involves, on the one hand, the amendment of Organic Law 1/2007 of 28 February on the reform of the autonomous status of the Balearic Islands, as has been said, which establishes the strenghtening of the deputies and autonomous deputies in Article 44, and of the president of the autonomous community and of the executive through Articles 56.7 and 57.5, and which follows those already submitted to this House in this legislature by the parliaments of the Murcia and Cantabria regions. But, moreover, this consideration today also means a demonstration that in politics initiatives can be adopted from total unity, despite the great ideological differences that separate us. For the Socialist Group that unity is particularly significant today, and it is because some people are filled with freedom tomorrow, evening and evening, but they too often forget to practice and exercise unity when they rule or are in opposition. In this time of resilience, recovery and vaccination, unity is a moral and political imperative. That symbolizes this proposal for a law which, as one of the Members who spoke said, counted in 2018 with the unanimity of the Parliament of Balearics; it symbolizes a single voice to eliminate, as reflected in the law, a constitutional prerogative that is considered a privilege that distorts the principle of equality and that is a powerful figure, as you know, in the autonomic sphere. In addition, ladies and gentlemen, this will to suppress the outbursts also certifies a way of doing politics and shows what is the road map of socialist presidents, socialist presidents like Francina Armengol and President Pedro Sánchez, throughout the country. In the Balearic Islands, despite what has been said and the alternative events that are repeated in this Chamber week after week, policy has been made since the dialogue, the pact and the agreement between the Government and civil society, united in the face of the pandemic, with social peace in the community, despite the impact of COVID, indeed, especially in the tourist productive fabric. This formula that allows the pandemic to be addressed was also the driving force behind this reform. Since the dialogue with civil society, a social demand has been assumed that has become a great parliamentary consensus that has led us here. And as I know the chronology of what we discussed, how and why it happened, it is important to influence that this reform emanates from a reality that we have experienced and suffered in the Balearic Islands. The reality is that the 2015 elections were the turning point. The Balearic society clearly wanted a change in social, economic, rights and freedoms; a change after years of policies called austerity, which were actually cut by the People's Party that then ruled, and you, Mr Jerez, know well because you were a Member. In fact, in those years freedom was carried very little on the islands, wasn't it, Mrs. Prohens? Freedom was to cut back on health and public education, on rights and freedoms; years of order and command that led us to a permanent conflict. And it was very bad that Baleares also opened coverts and televisions for cases of corruption that we remember very well through the Urdangarins, Matas and many others. Faced with this double fatigue, the progressive parties adopted in 2015 a change agreement that collected a battery of measures to end cuts, return to social peace in a framework of greater transparency and accountability. The elimination of stumbling blocks was therefore part of that progressive programme of regeneration and transparency, end of cuts and recovery of freedoms. He completed this series of proposals for improving democratic quality by reforming Parliament's Rules of Procedure, setting up an anti-corruption office, abolishing certain economic supplements for political positions or facilitating the handling of popular legislative initiatives, among other measures. Therefore, the first Government of a women's and socialist president like Francina Armengol adopted measures for a new governance and an improvement of democratic institutions; they were democratic regeneration agreements that were accompanied by axes such as recovery of rights, public investment, improved financing, productive diversification and the commitment to climate transition; a set of proposals that mark the direction of coalition that goes through its sixth year, by the way, and is the reflection of a community idea that has in dialogue, agreement and social peace its best presentation card. In this context this initiative, already taken in 2015 and which is also in the government agreement between the Socialist Party and the United Podemos of 2019, was subsequently supported and signed by each and every one of the fifty-nine Members of Parliament. That massive support is, therefore, ultimately the response to a time we want to move on from, but it also reflects a broad consensus among all parties that at the time had parliamentary representation and full competence to address it, and that honours the political forces that signed it from all the islands and all political positions, and that must be emphasized. And from that consensus, from that unity which we Socialists practice and seek, the Socialist Group announces that we will vote in favour of this consideration. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-13-CD210413.u23	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much to the representatives of the Parliament of the Balearic Islands.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-13-CD210413.u24	We continue with the debate on the proposal for a law of the Basque Parliament establishing a compensation fund for asbestos victims. That is why we are joined by three representatives of the Basque Parliament who make up the delegation that will defend the proposal and whom we welcome on behalf of the House. For the presentation of the initiative, Mrs Maitane Ipiñazar Miranda has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-13-CD210413.u25	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Let me begin by thanking those who should have taken this place today, my colleague Jon Aiartza, who has been confined these days. His involvement and work, along with that of other people, has made it possible for us to be here today. We come from three women, three Basque parliamentarians, but behind us we have the impulse, the strength and the determination of all the victims of asbestos, their families and the associations that have been fighting for the recognition of this collective for years. Thanks to them and their tireless struggle today we are here. We are talking about a serious health issue that requires an urgent response, so we hope that, beyond consideration, this initiative can be successful and that, ladies and gentlemen, will be in your hands, as diligent as it is to take advantage of the road already travelled and move forward without pause, because this debt has been pending for a long time and with many victims who have remained on the road. Let's not go late and bad again, we owe it to you, it's justice. From the 1960s to the 1980s, asbestos was produced and marketed massively. Protected by the law, it turned out to be a magical product, but its toxicity in handling it was unknown. Your fibers can stay in suspension in the air long enough for you to pose a respiratory risk. Different types of injuries are given, some non-fatal but severe and others many deadly. The number of people affected is really high and will continue to grow according to estimates until the 1930s. Since the use of asbestos was officially banned in the European Union in 2005, the only activity allowed is its withdrawal, which must be carried out by specifically authorised and registered companies. These works - very expensive, by the way - have revealed that asbestos is in many places, such as homes, pipes, industrial pavilions and even in schools, a real public health problem. In short, we can essentially ask ourselves two questions: what can be done in the field of asbestos and what is actually being done. Exposure prevention, health surveillance and compensation can be done to those affected and affected. But what actions are being taken in these areas? In preventing exposure to broad features illegal withdrawals and uncontrolled discharges are being avoided. In health surveillance, the health monitoring information systems of workers exposed to their medical history as citizens are being connected, leading to a more systematic knowledge of possible harm. What about compensation? In this regard, asbestos is particularly complex. First, the latency time between exposure and disease onset is extraordinarily long. Secondly, a relatively high number, around 20%, occurs in people who have not been professionally exposed to asbestos, the cause of exposure being environmental pollution. Therefore, in the case of those affected by asbestos, the procedures for the valuation and compensation of compensation systems are often inoperative, so that those affected are obliged to resort to the courts to obtain the redress to which they consider they are entitled. They only have to fight for damages against the company as the only way of redress. In some cases there is no longer a company to claim, in others, many affected fail to survive the long judicial process. Many States In our environment with the same levels of asbestos use and the same harmful impact on people have set up specific compensation funds in order to compensate the victims of asbestos, and this is the issue that was studied in the presentation of the Basque Parliament and which we are presenting to them today. It is fair to respond to this need and to create a fund with sufficient resources to end, or at least alleviate, the suffering of all these people. It is a historic claim, a debt that this State has and that will help victims and relatives not to have to fight in the courts, avoiding the personal and economic cost that this entails. Today, if they approve the consideration, we will have taken a step, but it will not be the most important, that will come the day this House approves the law. You can take it urgently or get entangled, you can pick up the work done so far or start from scratch, but from our group we ask you, please, to place it on the agenda of your priorities and to speed up its processing because today, ladies and gentlemen, asbestos continues to kill. Eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-13-CD210413.u26	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] I now give the floor to Mrs Eba Blanco de Angulo.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-13-CD210413.u27	Thank you very much, Mr President. Get out of the way. Good afternoon, everyone and everyone. We come from the Basque Parliament again with the request to create a compensation fund for asbestos victims. This is not the first time that we have called for this compensation fund with the clear and unanimous mandate of all the groups in the Basque House, and we are doing so out of solidarity with the victims, out of justice for thousands of people affected and out of commitment to our laws and also to their own. We have brought this initiative on more occasions and we will continue to insist until the right that assists all those who have directly and indirectly been victims of this silent murderer becomes a reality. On 15 December 2011, my colleague and parliamentarian Juanjo Agirrezabala presented an initiative in the Basque Parliament to meet and respond to the needs of asbestos victims. As a result, a presentation was made to analyse the creation of a compensation fund for these victims. Some of these seats today are occupied by parliamentarians who have witnessed the course of this initiative in the Basque House and are well aware of the proposal we put forward for consideration. It has been ten years of work first in Euskadi and then also here, work interrupted by several electoral appointments, but also by the difference in political criteria and vetoes that have caused only the delay in the creation of this compensation fund; a delay that the victims themselves do not understand because it is not understood that the majority will be put bureaucratic and administrative obstacles between considerations, writings, debates, plenary and regulatory formulas. What these victims do know is that their claim, and what we consider their rights, are not being dealt with. It has been a long way that we have come by the hands of the people concerned, and at the moment I would like to thank all the associations that have accompanied us, and especially Asviamie, for their work and the work of accompanying all the groups in the Basque Parliament during these ten years. If we are here today, it is also thanks to your perseverance. Today, for the second time, we present this bill to you so that it will be taken into consideration again, as you already did on October 10, 2017. We want to remember that today asbestos is still present among all of us because, despite the fact that its use and marketing has been prohibited for years, this material has been used massively for three decades and today asbestos still harms health. As you will understand, it is tremendously difficult to determine how many people have been exposed to asbestos or how long they have been exposed to asbestos, but despite not being able to quantify exactly those affected, we do have some data to take into account. From 1999 to 2018, 825 people died directly from asbestos in Araba, Bizkaia, Gipuzkoa and Nafarroa. Here, in the Spanish state, asbestos has taken the lives of 6961 people ahead during these nineteen years. To these figures should be added the cases of asbestososis or lung cancer, which have a direct relation to asbestos exposure, not to mention the victims who have also been mild but who do not cease to be victims. Moreover, this silent, deadly and incurable disease will continue to cause new victims for at least the next ten years, which is when the latency period is estimated to end. These are chilling figures behind which the suffering of many men, many families and many women is hidden. Yes, many women, and I am also extremely glad that today we have come here to defend this point, because the victims of asbestos are women too. A third of them have become ill in their workplace, but many have done so because of extra-work, they have done so in their work environment, washing the work clothes that contained asbestos fibers. And if 20% of mesotheliomas in men are not attributable to work exposure, in the case of women this percentage amounts to up to 80%. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, it is time to make good the damage to all these asbestos victims and we strongly urge them to vote in favour of this bill, as it was three years ago, and to resume the work of the presentation that constituted the last parliamentary term, to focus on what has been agreed and to make the difference - I conclude now, Mr President - that they do not start from scratch, because we cannot afford a further delay in this matter; a delay that we do not understand or would be fair to society in general, but above all it would not be fair to all the asbestos victims, those who are, those who will come and those who unfortunately stayed on the road. That is why we already believe, on this occasion, the compensation fund. Thank you very much. Eskerrik asko. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-13-CD210413.u28	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] I give the floor to Mrs Gloria Sánchez Martín.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-13-CD210413.u29	Thank you, President. It is an honour for me as a member of the Socialist Group to close this defence that we make several members of the Basque Parliament on behalf of all the parliamentary groups that make up it. I would like to emphasise two things that we want this House to take into account in order to admit it: the workers concerned and those who may be affected in the future and the value of the agreement. [[The lady]] My first reference is for those workers and their families who have been clamoring for a solution to avoid this unfair judicial calvary. It is not fair that your right to health has not been protected in the past. It is not fair that they have to defend it now before the courts, nor do we believe that it is fair for companies that, after the existence of a legal framework that allowed it in their day, over the years have to face many compensations, which also hinders the survival of many, fundamentally small companies. It's not about blaming or past responsibilities. The lack of knowledge about the actual effects of asbestos was general in Europe, but other countries had already responded to those affected, such as France, Belgium and the Netherlands. However, in Spain we still do not create the compensation fund for victims and their families after twenty years. We believe that its creation is necessary and we want all the efforts made in the Basque Parliament not to be sterile. Three legislatures ago, in the Basque Parliament we decided to start a rigorous work. We prepared a final report of the presentation after two years of work, and later this bill was drafted using the French FIVA model as a reference, because we consider it to be the most complete model of the three mentioned above. In addition, it was considered in the submission agreement that this compensation fund should be national rather than autonomous, because in Euskadi we could not create this fund for the reasons I will now be presenting, but from Euskadi we could promote it, as we are doing for the second time today. We made the first presentation to this Congress of Deputies on October 10, 2017. Almost four years have passed since then and again we are here at the starting point, but there is work done within this House that was about to end and see the light, but it is work that is there and has to be used to now conclude as soon as possible. We know that the problem is that it is not worth having the disease, but that it must be shown that asbestos has been worked, and many companies do not provide this documentation, do not provide the tests, or have disappeared at the time of diagnosis of the disease. Those affected face the difficulty of demonstrating their exposure and in which company or companies this occurred and, moreover, given the period of latency, the vast majority of cases are diagnosed when there is no longer a working relationship or are retired, and above all the deadlines for legal proceedings are very short, one year since the death of the person or since the recognition of the disease. This fund will provide equal compensation to all victims, which, if accepted by the victims concerned, would mean, as in other countries, renouncing ongoing legal proceedings. All these difficulties justify the request of this asbestos compensation fund at the state level. I want to spin the above with the second idea I told you at the beginning, the value of the agreement between different people to guarantee the rights of all. The project we are bringing you here today has been worked on and supported by all the groups represented in the Basque Parliament. We live in turbulent times for dialogue and agreement, I ask you to take into account the value of what we propose to you. For our part, we want these workers and their families to feel that their demands are finally being met, that we have heard them in Euskadi, that we have sought solutions for them and that we want them to become reality where it is possible to do so, here in the Congress of Deputies. That is why I call for the adoption of this proposal for a law to be taken into account and for it to continue to be dealt with, as has been done so far, with those affected and with the associations that represent them. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-13-CD210413.u30	Thank you very much, Mrs Sánchez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] The Joint Parliamentary Group, first of all Mr Martínez Oblanca, has the floor in position-setting.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-13-CD210413.u31	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good afternoon. As the representatives of the Basque Parliament have already recalled, we are faced with a legislative proposal which began three years ago a similar journey to today and which evolved with papers which, being very advanced, could not be completed as a result of the precipitate end of the XII Legislature after the dissolution of the General Courts. Those who participated in those tasks were encouraged by the associations of those affected. Therefore, again, it is rigorous to thank them for their affection and sacrifice, not exempt from suffering and pain. Allow me to customize in Mr. Jon García the civic tenacity to bring this law forward. As today, on behalf of Foro Asturias intervenes on October 10, 2017 in this forum to support the creation of a compensation fund for the compensation of the victims of asbestososis, asbestos disease, a mineral that had historically been attributed fabulous properties, after which, unfortunately, there were hidden serious and lethal effects on the health of the people exposed to their presence, very abundant, by the way, in Spain throughout the 20th century and of which - attention! - there are still signs in a multitude of buildings, installations, equipment, pipes, pipelines, etc. I repeat my speech in the Journal of Sessions and trust that that work started at the end of 2018 can be completed in this legislature. To this end, I urge the relevant bodies of the Congress of Deputies to expedite the necessary steps. Mrs Ipinazar and other representatives of the Basque Parliament, it seems to me very timely, very pertinent that request which you make of agility because, in fact, it would be a great social frustration that truncated again this good initiative with which it is intended to alleviate the personal and family tragedy of those affected by this disaster, which also has a derivative in the form of litigation to demonstrate contact with asbestos. In this sense, it is worth noting the recent news about the sentence of a Madrid court that recognized as a sequel of professional illness the death of the very popular communicator José María Íñigo, victim of an epithelioid malignant mesothelioma, a pathology that can be latent between twenty and forty years since the beginning of the exposure to asbestos and that, in the case of the emblematic presenter, was the product of his exposure to the insulating fiber that covered the old dependencies and studies of Spanish Television in Prado del Rey, in which he developed his activity. The case of Íñigo also reflects that of many victims and, unfortunately, it is very foreseeable that, at least throughout this decade, the peak of incidence will grow, resulting from the great period of latency, and that it will continue to have a great impact in Spain. In short, I will vote in favour of its consideration, but I also warn that it will be necessary to adopt comprehensive legislation in the immediate future to address this important public health problem. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-13-CD210413.u32	Thank you very much, Mr. Martínez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the same parliamentary group, Mr Botran Pahissa has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-13-CD210413.u33	Thank you, President. Members of the Basque Parliament, good afternoon. When the right wants to accentuate the most ideological discourse, it usually speaks a lot of freedom. It does so in abstract form and, as it scratches a little, it is seen that the freedom they are most concerned about is usually freedom of enterprise. Well, the problem that the history of asbestos and fibrocement brings us here today is a story that shows how this freedom of enterprise can cost lives. The expansion of the fibrocement runs parallel to the boom of the construction and it is estimated that in the Spanish state some 1500 square kilometers of fibrocement roofs have been installed, which would be equivalent to an idea, to the surface of the island of Gran Canaria, and about 370,000 kilometers of pipes, which would be equivalent to the distance between the Earth and the Moon. These are figures only from the Spanish State. At the center of this expansion were companies such as Rocalla, which was in Castelldefels and which worked between 1929 and 1993, and above all Uralita, which had its largest factory between Cerdanyola and Ripollet, which worked between 1907 and 1997 and which, so popular, ended up becoming a synonym for fibrocement or, as it was then also called, asbestos-cement. Cerdanyola and Ripollet are the so-called zero area of asbestos. The aforementioned company Uralita caused the respiratory diseases related to asbestos, such as asbestososis, which affects an average of 10 people per million inhabitants annually, in these two municipalities of Cerdanyola and Ripollet the figure rises to 95 victims per million inhabitants. In the case of mesothelioma or pleura cancer, a disease also related to asbestos, the proportions are even more brutal. The average in the State is between 1 and 3 people affected per million inhabitants and in Cerdanyola and Ripollet the figure is 47. The complaints started in 1977 and highlighted the Ronda Bar Association, which has defended more than 500 cases of asbestos victims. Last month, the Supreme Court confirmed the largest compensation to be received by a group of these victims, but Uralita's heirs intend to declare themselves insolvent in order to refuse their obligation to pay the compensation imposed. This is the last of the irresponsibilitys of a company that knew - already that is what I mean at the beginning of my intervention - the risks of asbestos to health almost fifty years before starting to close these industries. In France, asbestosis was described as occupational disease in 1945 and in the Spanish State in 1961. The fight against asbestos is a symbol of the struggles for public health, but it is also an expression of the class struggle, since the vast majority of people affected are workers of these fibrocement factories, neighbours of these popular neighborhoods and, as has already been pointed out above, women who in the homes had to wash the clothes that detached asbestos fibers. It is one of the historical claims for compensation for victims, but it must be accompanied by a very proactive effort to identify and also diagnose these victims, because it will be of little use to create the compensation fund if all the persons concerned are not properly diagnosed. Finally, another third issue: avoiding new victims. There are still many tons of asbestos installed in many buildings and must be isolated in less than...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-13-CD210413.u34	Thank you very much, Mr. Botran. Your time's up. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Matute García de Jalón has the floor for the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-13-CD210413.u35	President, ladies and gentlemen, [[his intervention in Basque continues]] Euskal Herria Bildu will vote in favour of this bill and, having said that, I will give up all the time I have left to give voice to the real protagonists of this debate and of this initiative, to civil society. In this case, I will do so with a letter from Asviamie, Association of Victims of the Amianto of Euskadi, to the Congress of Deputies. The association was created in early 2000, after learning that, as a result of inhaling asbestos fibres for years before - often far away - workers, workers and family members were ill and, in many cases, died. Since its formation, in the association we have always tried to accompany the victims, both in the judicial and medical fields. Our work has also focused on informing all parts of society, in particular the medical class and the general public. In order to be aware of the origin of asbestos-derived diseases, the dissemination work of some doctors, such as Luis López-Areal del Amo, a pioneer and precursor, was essential, which, as early as 1978, at the VIII National Congress of Occupational Medicine, warned about the health consequences of being in contact with asbestos. Also the work of Dr. Francisco Rodríguez Panadero, head of the Virgen del Rocío University Hospital in Seville, whose research has been a great help in the search for possible treatments for asbestos-derived diseases. In the social field, we have to highlight the work of Paco Puche, an engineer and economist expert in the field; of Francisco Báez, former worker of Uralita and tireless researcher; and, in particular, the work for years of Ángel Cárcoba, social representative in many forums, both at national and European level. With its priceless and key work we have achieved the definitive ban on asbestos. We appreciate your generous cooperation and regret not being able to name other valuable people, as the list would be long. In 2013, the Basque Parliament, on the initiative of the Socialist Group, made a presentation with the aim of creating a compensation fund for asbestos victims. In the period from 2013 to 2016, the year in which the process of participation and discussion in the paper ended, all social actors, business associations, workers' unions, asbestos victims' associations - Asviamie -, medical associations, the Basque Institute of Occupational Safety and Health - Osalan - and all political groups in the Basque Parliament participated in the paper. The result of the work of that paper is this preliminary draft law on the compensation fund for asbestos victims, a preliminary draft which, from our point of view, is satisfactory, is drawn up rigorously and has taken into account the experiences of several European countries. It is important to support this preliminary draft, because it involves ending the endless judicial processes that entail a moral cost to the victims and their families and because it protects all victims, not only the workers of large companies who can compensate, but also those who have no one to claim for being shut down by the companies in which they provided their services or for lack of credit for them, because we cannot ignore that the diseases caused by asbestos are awakened many times years after inhalation. That is why we say that this preliminary draft seeks to protect all those affected and that it can protect other groups that, although they seem unusual, are not nonexistent; we refer to women, then called housewives, who were contaminated in their own home when washing their spouses' work clothes full of asbestos particles, and also to people who have been sick by breathing asbestos fibers in neighbourhoods near or adjacent to factories. On the other hand, the Association of Victims of the Amianto de Euskadi wishes to congratulate the Basque Parliament and Basque society on the consensus reached. It seems to us that the unanimous agreement reached on this matter should be transferred to the whole State. Four years have passed since the first time the Basque Parliament recorded the preliminary draft. Part of the work of discussion and sharing was largely carried out in the previous legislature, but by the political avatars of this Congress the preliminary draft was stalled. Let it not happen again, we cry out, because the problem is pressing. It is necessary to deal with the asbestos removal of businesses and buildings, that the installed asbestos be properly removed and treated; but, in a few years' time, the consequences may be more serious and fatal. The problem is also pressing because victims have to have protection, as they do in other European countries. It is therefore urgent to move the preliminary draft to the Commission. We conclude with a memory for all affected people and their families. We send them a message of recognition and hope and reiterate our intention to continue to fight to stop this tragedy of the sick and the sick by asbestos and by a future of cities and asbestos-free factories. Euskal Herria, April 12, 2021.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-13-CD210413.u36	Thank you very much, Mr. Matute. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Barandiaran Benito has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-13-CD210413.u37	Pick it up on. Good afternoon, everyone. [[Start your speech in Basque]] If we review the publications of the Official Gazette of the Congress, we will be able to see that on September 9, 2016, on March 24, 2017 and, finally, on December 20, 2019, there were published legislative proposals for the creation of a compensation fund for asbestos victims who, at the initiative of the Basque Parliament, were admitted to the Bureau this Congress. If we dive in its background, we can find that this country consumed more than 2.5 million tons of asbestos or asbestos, in a time span that averages between the sixties, seventies and eighties. If we go into its consequences, we will know that between 1994 and 2008 at least 4000 people - the parliamentarian has told us today that they have been 6961 people - have died from pulmonary mesothelioma, but we must be aware that many have not been diagnosed and others have been ignored for not showing work contact. Today we are here, again convened at the initiative of the Basque Parliament, because despite the fact that this pathology had been declared occupational disease in 1961 and that the National Institute of Safety and Hygiene detected thousands of affected cases in 1991, it has continued to be used and no one has ever thought about how to care for its victims. That is why, and since it cannot be otherwise, I must first of all thank the representatives of the Basque Parliament - I hope that they will also be transferred to the rest of the House, which are also part of this initiative - for bringing this initiative to us, because it has merit that for the third time it is the autonomic legislator who reminds this House of the need to create this fund. Already in 2017, and on the occasion of an identical initiative, he said that the vote of this fund was a challenge of social and urgent justice, and he added - I say it again today - that, given his journey, and as Lope de Vega said, in La Dorotea, it is not well that comes late, because so much can be the delay that hope becomes despair. It is high time, therefore, that we began to give hope to the victims about the possibility of some degree of reparation. Secondly, I would also like to thank the State and Basque associations of asbestos victims, the trade unions and technicians in Osalan, the Basque Institute for Safety and Hygiene, and the National Institute of Health and Hygiene, which have participated as specialists in its elaboration. The opinion tells us that, from a comparative point of view, there are different European models - Belgian, French, Dutch - but this particular proposal revolves around a central idea: to create a fund designed to alleviate with some measure the consequences of an objective fact, to compensate those suffering from an asbestos-related pathology. Therefore, the debate should first of all be directed to the accuracy of the hypothetical recipients of the fund, i.e. those who are able to access the compensation fund as a result of suffering from asbestos-related diseases, since, among them, there are not only workers who have had permanent or occasional contact with asbestos, but also those who, for family or environmental reasons, have been able to have contact with asbestos. Here, it is necessary to make a special reference to a group already too victimized, which is that of women, since the wives, companions, mothers, sisters, etc., of those who work or have suffered this disease, have suffered it as a result of direct contact with their family member, but with an unfavourable characteristic and that they do not, in their favour, as in the case of the workers, have the pro-operative principle which does exist with respect to those who maintain any employment relationship. It is therefore very timely to mention article 13 of the draft, when it specifies as holders of the right to obtain redress both from those who have obtained recognition as an occupational disease, that caused by asbestos, and those who suffer from it as a result of an exposure of another origin. We understand that this precision has enormous value, because it has the merit of not leaving any victims, regardless of their source of contamination, outside the scope of action of the fund. Nor is the discussion on pathologies alien to this debate. The consequences of asbestos would say that they are even relatively novel. As an occupational disease it was assessed in 1961 - it has already been said - but it also stated the explanatory statement of Directive 1999/77 of 27 June, which had not yet established a minimum level of exposure below which asbestos or chrysolite does not pose carcinogenic risks. Mutatis, mutatis mutandis, is important for the design of an effective protection system to take into account the link between certain pathologies and asbestos, and therefore the consequence that, apart from the reason for exposure, the victim is considered to be worthy of protection. This association between recipients, pathology and science must allow to design a scenario where the Administration can act and where it must also assume responsibilities. We will leave for the end the discussion of aspects such as financing, which we believe must include mutuals or social security, in addition to employers, but also other issues, such as the legal nature of the fund, its structure or procedure, because the important thing here is its creation and the idea of alleviating, to some extent, the damage described. We will vote in favour of all this, but also for the consideration that with this proposal we all win, because care for the victims of asbestos is not only a matter of reparation; it is also a way of understanding that this problem must be addressed from the point of view of those who suffer or have suffered from such pathologies, because - this is a momentous reflection - the greatest tragedy for a protection system such as this is that there is no other option but to take remedial measures such as the proposal. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-13-CD210413.u38	Thank you very much, Mr Barandiaran. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Muñoz Vidal has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-13-CD210413.u39	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by thanking the presence here this afternoon of the associations of asbestos victims and our colleagues, colleagues in this case, of the Basque Autonomous Parliament. We had the opportunity to speak for the first time a few weeks ago with some of the collectives, including the trade unions, and we were concerned about the delay in bringing this initiative to this House, to the plenary, so today I am as glad as they - as much as you - that we are debating the beginning of this phase to work on the proposal for a law. Unfortunately, this is one of those parliamentary initiatives that suffer, without many times having to do with political instability and successive electoral calls. Three and a half years ago - three and a half years in particular - my colleague Paco Igea came up to this rostrum to discuss at that time a proposal for a law in this area. His spirit at the time was very similar to what I bring to this House today. We have seen for a while now how this plenary, this Chamber, this Chamber, in short, becomes a battlefield in which many are dedicated to shouting, to arming the population with sophlamas of another time and forgetting what causes, such as the one we are debating today, causes like this, deserve all our attention and all our work, and it is often also coincidental that these things are expected by the Spaniards of their representatives: let us devote time to solving their problems and not to dividing and confronting society, and this is one of those issues that we in my parliamentary group, which we in Citizens consider to be a useful policy. Although much later, much later than reasonable, we will try to repair, assist and protect the victims of the State's disdain and judgment. It's already been said here. We are talking about asbestos disease, asbestosis, which unfortunately is not new. Since 1906, we have been aware of asbestos-related asbestososis. We know, since 1935, about your relationship with lung cancer. We know, since 1945, of his intimate and practically exclusive relationship with mesothelioma. How is it possible that knowing what we knew we were in this situation today? For we have come this far because, despite knowing all this, this country has consumed 2.6 billion tons of asbestos between the 1960s and 1980s. We are here despite the fact that in this country asbestosis was designated occupational disease in 1961 and occupational disease was also designated lung cancer related to asbestos and mesothelioma in 1978. We are here because although the National Institute of Occupational Safety and Health in 1991 identified 60,400 people affected by this occupational disease, we continued to consume asbestos and we continued to work with asbestos. We are here despite the fact that between 1989 and 1998 1647 mesotheliomas were diagnosed and we still consume asbestos. And we are here because we have consumed large amounts of asbestos, and they will wonder why, with an occupational disease that causes 700 deaths a year, we have continued to use asbestos, asbestos. It turns out, ladies and gentlemen, that we do not ban the use of asbestos until 2002, and we have been one of the last European countries to ban it. - As in many other things, the last ones. Why didn't we do it before? There are very explicit judicial statements by one of the pneumologists member of the National Commission of the Amianto, Mr. Juan Ignacio Camargo, who in the trial conducted by some affected of the company Uralita said textually that the Government decided not to prohibit the use of asbestos, the use of asbestos, until 1984, when it was proposed to ban it or not for the high business and labor cost that it would entail. That is, we pay the business and labor costs with the lives and health of the citizens. But we did something else. A voluntary register of companies at risk of asbestos was established in 1987, i.e. companies could or could not sign up, and that is one of the reasons why, today, in many cases, those responsible cannot be identified, and that is why we have to go to the legislative branch once again to propose a fund to compensate for the damage and desirous years of bad government that anticipated electoral revenues to the health of the Spaniards. Ladies and gentlemen, these are the consequences of not taking action in time; these are the consequences of not facing a serious disease and taking serious and decisive action courageously. This speech could also be applied to other areas of the public, labour and health sphere, and more now, in the middle of a pandemic. Because today again we see the consequences of political decisions on health care or its worsening by negligence on the part of the public authorities. Today, citizens again put us to do our job, which is to safeguard their health and ensure their well-being. Citizens, my parliamentary group, came to politics for that; I got into politics for this: to work and make proposals, not to fight in war-civilist confrontations that are barren for society. To the victims and their families: your cause is ours; it is mine. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-13-CD210413.u40	Thank you very much, Mrs. Muñoz. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Rego Candaimil has the floor first.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-13-CD210413.u41	Thank you, Madam President. That almost twenty years after the definitive ban on asbestos or nearly forty years since blue asbestos was banned -1984 - there is still no compensation fund for victims in the Spanish State, says, at least, little of the sensitivity of the governments on duty on the health and life of people. That the proposal we have on the table now comes from the Basque Parliament and not from a government bill confirms it. Because a State that allowed the manufacture, marketing and use of asbestos, which even used it in public buildings and which ultimately prohibits it because its highly harmful effect on health is evident, must be held accountable for the consequences. And the minimum is to establish and regulate compensation for victims. That is why the BNG will support the consideration of the proposal and is committed to working on amendments to improve it. We believe that the great goal is to bring justice to the victims without having to go through the courts. Directors of the Galega Association of Victims of Amianto told us that they have won many trials, but that the judicial process is always slow and complex, and that for many people it is, unfortunately, too late. The aim is to move out of the circle of litigation to facilitate access to compensation - to all appropriate ones - and to ensure that victims have rapid and agile access from the point of view of diagnosis. In short, it is a matter of doing justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-13-CD210413.u42	Thank you very much, Mr. Rego. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the same parliamentary group, Mrs Sabanes Nadal has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-13-CD210413.u43	Thank you, President. Very good afternoon. First of all, from More Country-Greens Equo we want to thank you for the presentation and work that you have presented to us today from the Basque Parliament; but not only, but also for all the background and work that you have presented to us. Asbestos, like pollution, is one of these pandemics that makes less noise, which sometimes does not get so many headlines, but which, silently, has cost us and costs us health and many lives. That is why we will support the proposal that we are getting from the creation of a fund today, because it is important to recognise the victims who have been, are being and will still be generated, unfortunately. As has already been said, we cannot ask families to make a complex judicial journey in search of justice and solutions to a serious public health problem. Today we are taking a very important step, but it is also true that we need, in addition to the recognition of the fund, a comprehensive treatment and a proposal that allows for the safe dismantling of all facilities and all buildings and the comprehensive treatment of the aspects that we recognize here today - which are very important - but also in other aspects that are essential in order to perceive the future in a secure way. That is why we have registered in the House the creation of a comprehensive asbestos law for safe eradication throughout the country, to improve research into associated diseases, to remove it and to generate safety throughout the treatment or processing of asbestos. In that sense, the figures do not lie, since there are very sensitive situations. We want to make special mention of the thousands of children who are still studying in buildings that are affected by asbestos. We owe them and them not only what we approve today, but we commit ourselves to the agility you asked of us, but we also commit ourselves to ensuring treatment and the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-13-CD210413.u44	Thank you very much, Mrs. Sabanes. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Finally, Mr Boadella Esteve has the floor for the Plural Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-13-CD210413.u45	Thank you very much, Madam President, and thank you very much to the Members of the Basque Parliament for bringing this initiative here today, which undoubtedly responds to a reality that has been delayed in time. Many of the victims of asbestos are those who were exposed to asbestos twenty or fifty years ago and the disease has appeared to them. This situation has to give us a measure of what the problem is when it comes to recognizing this situation and giving it the status of occupational disease which in many cases corresponds and which becomes a genuine judicial battle on the part of these workers and their families. A study by the University of Granada estimated that 93.6% of men and 96.6% of women with mesothelioma death who were not recognized by Social Security, and the underdiagnosis in this area is also more than worrying. In Germany, 127 more cases are diagnosed than in Spain in this area. It is therefore clear that there has been an unfair treatment here of a reality that has happened for many years and that we are now aware of, but, as has been pointed out by other Members of Parliament, it has been known for a long time. We will vote in favour of this proposal for the creation of this fund because we understand that it is a fund that works for workers and for the families of asbestos victims, but above all because it is a fund that works against the judicialization of these problems, the lack of proof and the separation of many companies and those responsible for this whole situation and therefore represents a very important step forward. In this area, let me point out, in the last minute that I have left, that Uralita, Castelldefels, has been mentioned here; in the part that touched me when I did municipal politics, I had the opportunity to meet the retirees of Macosa-Alstom in Barcelona city and Can Girona and the whole factory in that area. In 2019, they collected signatures to do an asbestos census in Catalonia to also dismantle those asbestos, uralite, facilities that have been mentioned here. It is therefore up to us to give a green light to this consideration, and it is up to us to speed up the parliamentary process of this initiative, so that no other parliamentary term, another electoral call and another paralysis will take place in a demand which I believe is a majority, which is felt and which is of justice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-13-CD210413.u46	Thank you very much, Mr Boadella. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Garrido Gutiérrez has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-13-CD210413.u47	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. Welcome, ongi etorri, to the Basque parliamentarians. Just over a week ago, the Supreme Court handed down a judgment that we can say was historic: for the first time, the right to receive compensation was recognized to the asbestos victims who were for an environmental exposure. The Uralita factory in Cerdanyola del Vallès has caused damage to the health of the population, to the point of turning it, as has been said, into the city with the highest incidence of pleural cancer in the entire State. But this is not an isolated fact, this situation is repeated in regions where there is high industrial and steel industry activity; in workers' neighborhoods, especially in those cities that were created ad hoc to accommodate internal migration in the 1970s; workers are the main victims of this type of cancer. Mesothelioma is a disease associated, therefore, with the world of work because it is practically entirely produced by asbestos. Those who were sick and those who were sick because of asbestos have not been aware that every day when they were going to work, when they were going to earn personal and family sustenance, they were becoming contaminated with cement microfibers that were embedded in their lungs and that in many cases constituted a death sentence. It's a real tragedy. In Euskadi, due to the great industrial activity we have, we know very well the lethal effects of asbestos. To give an example, the company that most billes in Guipúzcoa, the CAF, already has eighty-five dead, eighty-five workers killed by a continuous exposure and by manipulating asbestos without protective measures. Thirty-eight of them at a Beasain plant in Guipúzcoa, where, unfortunately, they make short stops to pay tribute to the comrades who die and denounce that death. Asbestos victims and their families are therefore helpless because they have to fight, as has been said, in endless processes for the recognition of this occupational disease; they do so individually and, on many occasions, there are no longer even the factories in which they worked. I want to stop in a case that is particularly tragic because of its cruelty and the lack of recognition, perhaps even greater than the lack of recognition suffered by its male partners; it is that of the women victims of asbestos. The Amianto is a microfiber that the industrial worker takes home in the work monkey; and guess who does the laundry every day, every week; for women. Then hundreds of women, I would say that thousands of women, have been sick in their homes by cleaning the dive of their partners and parents, by breathing indirectly this cancer agent. These women are doubly invisible: in their domestic work, which is not valued, as we know, neither socially nor economically, but also in this case its consequences: a harsh disease that can lead to death. Their work is not work; therefore, there is no occupational disease and therefore they do not count, they do not exist. We would say that this situation is the height of helplessness and lack of memory. In the CAF - previously mentioned this company -, on 8 March 2020 three women victims of asbestos were honoured, all of them already dead today, after long and complicated processes. I think it is good to remind you here today that we are defending this law which aims to create this compensation fund for all victims of asbestos. They are Puri Muñoz, of Lazkao, who died in December 2018 of mesothelioma derived from asbestos by washing the husband's dive, who worked for years and years in the CAF; Maria Dolores Sabino, who died just one day after this tribute, on March 9, 2020, from Beasain, seventy-one years old, and died for the same cause, Mesothelioma, by washing the divers of her father, Joaquin Sabino, CAF worker from 1957 to 1986, who also died in 1993 from lung cancer, and Vincenta Burguete, of Beasain, who died on March 22, 2017 with the same disease, wife of a worker who worked in the CAF between 1957 and 1994. In the latter case, just over a year ago, in March 2020, a court in Toulouse sentenced the CAF to compensate the widower. This is the first sentence in Euskadi in favor of what they call a housewife who died of an illness resulting from asbestos exposure while washing her husband's work clothes. For all of them and for many others it is so necessary today to recognize the different faces of asbestos, not only those of workers exposed directly, not only those of environmental victims, but also those of sick women for developing a job in this domestic case. This initiative comes from the Basque Parliament - I would like to stress that this is important - with a great consensus between the different Basque political forces. It also supports - they consider it a good initiative, although it will certainly be improved in the processing - different associations that have worked intensively to ensure that this problem has a prompt solution, such as the Association of Victims of the Amianto of Euskadi. Therefore, what this initiative proposes is something as reasonable and necessary as a compensation fund for asbestos victims and, although economic endowment will certainly always be insufficient because nothing can compensate for the suffering and death of a loved one, this disease is recognized and therefore we help to alleviate pain and suffering. Let us hope that in a quick way this bill will come forward. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-13-CD210413.u48	Thank you very much, Mrs. Garrido. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Del Valle Rodríguez has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-13-CD210413.u49	With the coming of the presidency. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to express the surprise of my parliamentary group that the Basque Parliament, with the support of the nationalist and separatist groups, is presenting a proposal for the creation of a state public body - as has not been said yet - a centralised state public body for the management of these possible compensations. Go ahead that in VOX we agree to recognize all the damage caused by asbestos, and therefore all our support and recognition to the victims and the victims of asbestos-related diseases. But what we cannot share is, as I said at the beginning, that these compensations are managed through a chiringuite, because in the end what is created is a chiringuite. A public body is set up, in particular an autonomous administrative body with its own legal personality and independent of that of the General Administration of the State with the capacity to act and which, according to article 2 of the proposal, will have jurisdiction, he says literally, throughout the Kingdom of Spain. That is why he said that he was surprised that the nationalist and separatist parties have signed this and that they are supporting him. Of course, you might think that the same, when you have to put money, because for all this you have to put a lot of money, you stop being so nationalist and you say: Well, let the oppressive state put it. You could think that. [[Applauds]] Look, you've looked very well with the association of victims and victims of the Basque Country. They've been gathering and debating for years, but at the time of truth, they don't put up a hard time. The Basque Hacienda doesn't put a hard one. They've turned out very well and they're extending the dead to the rest of the Spaniards. In this body you foresee - that is why the PSOE supports it, because it loves it - that there is a president, a governing council with the participation of the unions, a general secretariat with the rank of sub-direction general, provincial monitoring commissions with the participation of the unions, peripheral management units. If we add to this the cost of renting for the agency, the maintenance, the cleaning, the security, the water, the light, the ordinary office equipment, the printers, the computers, etc., plus the costs of staff - to the General Secretariat already give it the rank of general subdirection -, all the services that are expected to be dependent on the General Secretariat, that is, all that expenditure, including that of staff I say, and, how do the unions participate, sure that there are diets, because, if not, and some subsidy, because we have already seen in the matter of public service that in order to negotiate what is provided for in the EBEP the first thing they ask is a subsidy; well, as I say, all that expenditure exceeds what can really be given of compensation per year. [[applause]] That is why I say that we are with the affected, but not with this formula. At present in Spain, about ninety public bodies depend on the General Administration of the State, and I say approximately because, despite what they presume from the transparency here, for my own sake, when asked about how many public bodies there are, they answer: You can see it in the link. And they give you a link, where you go in and read: The government reports. But where is the list of organisms? How many are there? For nothing, it is necessary to go ministry by ministry, relying on what is coming out in each of them, and adding up, and giving about eighty-nine and ninety. Well, most of them are worthless because what they do could be done directly by the State Administration and we would save ourselves a lot of money. Therefore, creating one more body to manage compensation seems to us to be barbaric. Social Security in Spain is already managed by management entities with autonomy, legal personality and capacity to operate. Article 117 of the General Social Security Act provides for the Reserve Fund and 97 for the Occupational Contingencies Fund. Well, the General Social Security Act could be amended and a new fund created, a fund for aid to victims and affected by asbestos-related diseases, whether they have contributed or not, and so we put the women, who are so concerned, who were washing the clothes of the workers who were in contact with asbestos. How are you going to fund that body, that little little boy that said? On the one hand, through general State budgets, they provide for contributions from the State and, on the other hand, a great barbarity, which is - and comes from Article 11 of the proposal - through the additional quotas to be created for all employers who are employed by others, have had to do with their work centres or not with asbestos. That is to say, in the midst of the crisis, an additional quota for entrepreneurs, which, in my opinion, is also unconstitutional, because, if they have not had a connection with asbestos in their workplaces, the company cannot be taxed by paying a quota for something that their workers have nothing to do with. In any case, that is the prediction they make, to burden those who are currently creating and maintaining jobs: a real barbarity. Finally, because I just don't have time left, they use non-sexist or inclusive language, which they love the ladies of Podemos, and, as always in all this, they screw up. When they speak of the president, they then say: The Governing Council will summon the president. That is, if there is a president, the governing council is not called. [[Laughter and applause]] And so on. They say the affected one or the affected one, but then: After fifteen days, the affected one... In other words, the person concerned does not have to have that period of fifteen days. In any case, my group's position will be to abstain from taking this bill into consideration. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-13-CD210413.u50	Thank you very much, Mr Del Valle. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mrs Montesinos de Miguel has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-13-CD210413.u51	Thank you, President. Today we discuss the consideration of the same bill that was already debated in this House in 2017. This initiative of the Basque Parliament, in which the Basque People's Group participated from the outset, seeks to solve a very serious health problem, of a complexity and uniqueness that leads us directly to the need and public responsibility to offer an effective response to those affected, to whom we transfer all our support, as well as to their families. Asbestos has caused a serious health problem in Spain, as in other countries, which must be addressed in all its dimensions and addressed from a global perspective, because it transcends the territorial limits of one or other autonomous community. Our social security system currently protects workers who have been affected by asbestos by the benefits provided for occupational diseases, but because of its complexity,singularity and our public responsibility, we must offer a greater response to all those affected. Let us not forget that it causes serious damage to health that occurs long after contact with asbestos and that extends its worst effects also in other areas, in addition to work, that now receive no coverage and that some estimates place in 20% of the cases. In our view, the contribution of the fund to the reduction or elimination of the complex litigation that asbestos entails for victims in the long judicial process until the recognition of their diseases is achieved is no less. Let us also think of those victims who, for different reasons, cannot claim. Anything that helps to mitigate the real calvary involved in the claim of asbestos victims to justice should be welcome, because we are in time to give a solvent response to those affected. Ladies and gentlemen, if this bill is the twin sister of the debate in 2017, the weaknesses and objections we want to raise to it are equally identical from our point of view. Firstly, there is a surprising detail in the description of the structure and administrative organisation of the fund as an autonomous administrative body, but not the same detail as regards the scope, the specific benefits and the type of additional contribution necessary for its financing, which will logically depend on the two above. We are also surprised that this initiative comes with the favourable vote of nationalists and independenceists who call for the creation of a central strategy and will use-agree with me that is not usual - these requests. In addition, more than reasonable doubts remain about a bottom-up structure that can clash with the own of the autonomous and state agencies, as designed by the Law on the Law of the Public Sector. Nor do we know whether the chosen form is more efficient than other organizational alternatives that have already been discarded. In fact, the Basque Parliament's presentation covered various possibilities on the merits. A second and most important critical point that we want to make to the proposal for a law is that which refers to the economic resources of the fund, since it proposes that it be financed by a blameless compensation, that is, that which occurs without proof of the responsibility of the company nor by the State Administration, that is to say that the reparation of the damage by exposure to asbestos is financed by, among other resources, an additional contribution established for all employers who have hired workers on behalf of others through the contribution of the mutual collaborators. Ladies and gentlemen, this formula is difficult to justify whether the beneficiaries of fund protection are workers protected by any public social protection system or whether, for unprotected persons, the status of beneficiaries is limited to them. In addition, exposure to asbestos may also have occurred in self-employed workers as it was of general use. We do not share the view that an additional contribution is created to finance this fund, which will indiscriminately burden all employers who have employed others, regardless of whether there has never been asbestos in these workplaces or whether it includes beneficiaries of the fund who have suffered damage from exposure to asbestos without providing services to a company. In this regard, we appreciate the same lack of justification as other parliamentary groups, such as the Socialist Group, which set out in their amendments tabled in December 2018 and which, where appropriate, even limited the funding of the fund exclusively to the general budgets of the State. Consequently, in the process of amendments we propose this necessary modification of the fund's financing system with regard to the increase in the quotas for professional contingencies of employers who hire workers and through the financial contributions of the mutual partners. Nor can we forget that a possible rise in social contributions has an effect on employment and economic growth that is not inconsiderable, given the chaotic economic, labour and health situation that all Spaniards are currently suffering. Finally, I would like to recall that in 2002 the Government of the People's Party approved the Pivistaa to follow up on all workers and also on those who are inactive or exposed to asbestos but not because of their employment situation, a plan that remained in force in the Spanish Strategy for Safety and Health at Work 2015-2020. It's over. The People's Parliamentary Group will give its assent to the parliamentary handling of this bill, understood as an acceptable instrument for the reparation of damages suffered by many workers and non-workers in their exposure to asbestos, but with all the improvements and corrections that this mechanism requires in order to address a problem that is social justice to help solve effectively. We would say, quite frankly, that they would be the recipients of the fund, but we changed the way it was financed and the instrument that would do it. We trust that there will be an opportunity to improve the text from now on in the same constructive spirit and basic consensus that a matter like this deserves. All victims of asbestos expect this political provision and our parliamentary group will not disappoint them. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-13-CD210413.u52	Thank you very much, Mrs. Montesinos. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. Guille. For the Socialist Group, Mrs Guijarro Ceballos has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-13-CD210413.u53	Thank you, President. Pick up where we are. First of all, I would like to thank the work of the associations of people affected by the asbestos of Euskadi and many other places that have been pushing this bill for a long time; women and men who, due to the pain of so many years, deserve our respect, ladies and gentlemen of VOX. [[Applauds]] Without their tesón, without their commitment, today we would not be here once again talking about something as necessary as the creation of a compensation fund for asbestos victims; not a chiringuito, a compensation fund for victims. I would also like to thank as Basque - Euskadi is one of the territories, as has been said here, where more cases are emerging - the consensus work of the Basque Parliament initiated in the Legislature of the lehendakari Patxi López. In times when the common good, the collaborative good or simply the politics without crispation are not so frequent, we are grateful for the rigorous and joint work of different political forces, which do what needs to be done in politics: the management of public affairs, working for the citizenry, and more if it is vulnerable, as is the case. So, mila esker, deputies. Last month the information brought us to the fore the judgment of the trial for the death of journalist José María Íñigo, who admitted that his death had actually been caused by his exposure to asbestos in the Spanish Television Studio 1, and the public projection of this victim reminded us of thousands of anonymous victims, because we know, it has been said, since the sixties and until it was banned in 2001 in Spain, this mineral was produced and marketed, with more than three thousand commercial uses, which, as you know, causes lung cancer. The World Health Organization estimates that 125 million people are still exposed to asbestos. In Europe the number of deaths per year is 88 000 and, according to the Spanish Society of Pneumology and Thoracic Surgery, in Spain there could be a total of 130,000 deaths due to exposure to asbestos by 2050: 40% is yet to arrive, and this is one of the major focus areas where we must put attention and for which this fund makes even more sense, because the estimate of sick or latency will continue to grow over the next thirty years. One of the affected said: There are friends who got sick with six months at work, and others didn't; it's a lottery, we don't know who it's going to touch. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, these are figures, but our obligation is to put our work back at the service of the people, of the families behind those figures. Yes, once again our vote will therefore be favourable; once again because it is true that parliamentary times sometimes do not accompany social emergencies and this is taken into consideration and this proposal for a law has already passed through this Parliament, has already been worked on paper and, if it had not been stopped at the time by the Congressional Bureau - almost a year's pause on the part of the People's Party - it would have completed its procedure before the advance call for elections. The Socialist Parliamentary Group is clear that rigorous work, joint work in the subsequent discussion of the bill, is essential. Indeed, we propose to review some specific issues in the article: basic aspects of funding, the legal nature of the body and its management or what the scope would be. But all that will come, and now it is up to us to take this consideration forward and not to lose sight of the fundamentals. We owe it to all those workers, yes, who have left their lives or who live with Damocles' sword on them and do not have to endure this judicial calvary that has already been spoken of here. Many of these people are unable to claim compensation from the companies that used the asbestos that caused them the disease because a large number of cases have subsequently occurred and many of those companies have disappeared. And where the judicial process is restricted, too, why not say so, because many families cannot afford it, and let's not talk about the emotional burden, public proposals are needed to create blameless compensation funds. And our group also wants to draw attention to the gender issue: once again women with unpaid work, the most forgotten, the invisible. As has already been said, one third of the victims produced by asbestos are women, but 80% were not by direct work exposure. In March of last year, by the way, the first favourable sentence was handed down in Euskadi to a woman who died of asbestos in 2017. There have also been sentences in Galicia and Asturias, all of them in relation to women who were in charge of cleaning, shaking, ironing the work clothes and shoes of their partners who died by inhaling the impregnated dust of Shipyards or so many companies. They are women who died without any recognition, so also by and for them this fund. We have a long way to go. We have already made great strides in health prevention and surveillance. We must continue to employ companies to carry out their preventive tasks, and in the case of asbestos to take responsibility for their withdrawal. It is also necessary for the National Social Security Institute and the mutuals to do their work with professionalism and transparency, and although this fund is not going to return their families to those who died, we believe it will do justice to those who were not protected or protected and with those who do not yet know that they are sick or sick by asbestos. Our parliamentary group will always stand by the workers for solidarity, because reparation is a moral obligation of a society like ours, for dignity and for justice. Mila esker, thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-13-CD210413.u54	Thank you very much, Mrs. Guijarro. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much to the representatives of the Basque Parliament for accompanying us during the defence of the bill. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-13-CD210413.u55	We move on to the agenda item on non-legislative proposals. We begin with the non-legislative proposal of the VOX Parliamentary Group on measures to ensure environmental sustainability in the environment of the Sea Minor. For the defence of the initiative, Mr Gesto de Miguel has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-13-CD210413.u56	Good afternoon. Throughout the Mediterranean there are only two geographical phenomena that, unlike lakes or albuferas, receive virtually all their water from the sea. One is the Girl Sea, next to Melilla, and the other is the Minor Sea, in Murcia. This Singularity causes the Sea Minor to be subjected to two impacts: on the one hand, to the human impact, which is the least of them, as I will explain later, that it is due to two main causes, tourism and agriculture, which are not, by far, as we have been told by the progress in its permanent scourge of the human species, the greatest threat of the Sea Minor, and, on the other hand, it is subject to the impact of nature, and this factor is indeed dangerous and it can make it disappear completely, and it is due to the problem of the constant landing of the gorges that communicate it with the Mediterranean and the ramblas consequences of rivers and torrential rains. I will try to explain the problem outlined here and its solutions. The Mar Menor has an area of 13 500 hectares, 630 cubic hectares of salt water and an average depth of 4.4 meters, although the maximum is slightly more than 6 meters. Those 630 cubic hectometres have the following flow: on the one hand there are the losses of water that evaporate annually, about 220 cubic hectometres, which, therefore, would be the amount that should enter to keep the volume stable and not overflow or dry the Lesser Sea, and then there are the contributions of water, because from the Mediterranean some 190 cubic hectometres enter through the gorges, which, thanks to the incompetence of the minister - today she is not here - and the abandonment of the consensus progress, are closing, which gives an idea of the disaster that comes to us by the sectarianism of the ideological agendas of the left and the cowardice of the popular government of Murcia, with its transfugas and traitors. On the other hand, the floods and rains, with exceptions, contribute another 20 cubic hectometres, which carry 10% of suspended solids that cause a slow sedimentation that causes the coast to steal land from the sea, especially in the areas of Los Alcázares and El Algar, and phenomena such as that of the Rame Tower, which was once a watchtower of surveillance of pirate attacks and is already more than two kilometers inland coast. Another two cubic hectometres are provided by the black waters of the overflow, mainly from municipal scrubbers, and eight cubic hectometres come from the infiltrations of agricultural irrigation. What problems do the contributions present and how to deal with them? The contribution of the 190 cubic hectometers of the Mediterranean does not present any problem; rather, it is essential for the survival of the Lesser Sea. The 20 cubic hectometers of the rivers and their suspended solids do pose a long-term closure problem, which can be solved as was done in Cartagena with Rambla del Hondon, which drowned the fishing port and diverted to the Mediterranean. The 2 cubic hectometres of black water from municipal sanitation do pose a pollution problem, which can be solved by forcing municipalities to install separative sanitation that separates rainwater from black water and avoid overflows. [[The lady]] And finally, we arrive at the 8 cubic hectometres of agricultural irrigation, which are irrelevant and the excuse that this government and the left seek to continue to pursue and criminalize, with the inconsistent connivance of the government 'transfu genstein' of Murcia, the Spain that is early and the farmers of Levante, and thus to put an end to agriculture, because it does not vote, and to create a subsidized economy of captive voting. [[Applauds]] By the way, the ecologist delegate of progress in Murcia lied saying that farmers were guilty of the supposed degradation of the Mar Menor because they poured 90 cubic hectometres of nitrate into the Mar Menor. The face of reality was given Tragsa with a demolishing study that reduced the expectations of ecological subsidy to only 8 cubic hectometres. Conclusion: in VOX we propose the following solutions, cheap, fast, effective and definitive, sending to unemployment chiringuitos, ecological groups, offices and other groups created to perpetuate the problem and the irrigation of their pockets, which does not carry nitrates, seems to be. These solutions will be put in place as soon as VOX reaches the Government of Murcia and will be irrevocable for VOX to support any Government in that region. [[Applauds]] First, the opening of the gorges and their maintenance at the levels of the fifties and sixties, which is considered the golden age of the Mar Menor. I remind the Minister - who is not - that she is bound by law - I insist - and by the plans that she so rumblingly approves to fail to comply, to keep those elbows open and that at present they are practically covered by the storms. Secondly, mandatory rainwater separative sanitation must be installed in all municipalities in the area. This could avoid punctual episodes, such as the death of fish on a beach in San Pedro, which was shamefully used by the whole left to attack tourism and agriculture in the area saying that the Mar Menor died and had run out of fish. Well, this year's official fishing figures deny its apocalypse, as it seems that catches in the Lesser Sea have almost doubled compared to last year's. All this can be financed with a neighborhood contribution, without official contribution, which is recovered by the revaluation of the properties. Thirdly, we propose the construction of a ditch on the entire Marminorian perimeter, such as that described in the PNL and whose preliminary draft we have already presented, which will make a filter of nitrates and brines that can come from agricultural irrigation streams. That ditch will take the filtered water to El Mojon's desalinator for treatment. This will prevent the slender sectarian perpetrated by the ministry from declaring the quaternary aquifer next to the falsely contaminated Minor Sea, damaging the external image of our farmers. And for example, a button: this nonsense has been perpetrated by the ministry by analyzing a dozen wells at its discretion, when there are 1200 authorized by that ministry and who are willing to provide monthly analyses that prove the falseness of this purpose. Fourthly, to draw up a zero-breeding plan, allowing farmers - I am finishing up - to install deflators which, by double devaluation, eliminate all the breeding. It is a very cheap action, because farmers will do it in exchange for letting them work. In conclusion, we want to claim from VOX to that early Spain that represents tourism, agriculture and the companies of the Mar Menor, which has supplied our pantry during the scourge of the Chinese virus, to which we tell them that you are not alone and that we will not allow it to end with you and with your way of life. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause by the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, on the ground]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-13-CD210413.u57	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] In defence of the amendments put forward by your group, Mrs Sabanes Nadal spoke by the Plural Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-13-CD210413.u58	Thank you, President. From More Country-Greens Equo we are going to vote against your proposal because what you are proposing is a serious and dangerous involution for the protection of the Minor Sea. International laws and regulations protecting the Mar Menor, a unique ecosystem in the world, cannot be violated. The natural heritage of Spanish citizens cannot be destroyed in order to favour the interests of a part of the industry that has bought, acquired or rented a very important part of the Campo de Cartagenera and that intends to continue with its intensive production processes without adapting them to the regulations and without control. You, to the scientific recommendations, to the European directives on water or fertilizers in vulnerable territories, to the consensus and the fight against climate change, to the urgent protection of biodiversity, to all this without depensing, call it the progress consensus. That's what you do, and all your concern for Murcia and Spain is reduced to a slogan that is worth a break and a break: the consensus progresses and the chiringuitos, the chiringuitos and the consensus progresses. A lot of chiringuitos would have to talk about you and a lot would have to explain, especially your chief of staff. What you do is assume theses negatists and the interests of agro-industry, that's what you're doing without counting it; not of all farmers, not of all fishermen, not of the people who live on land and need the land of Murcia in conditions. They point out as the main problem of the Sea Minor the aquifer and propose as a solution hydraulic works, moving away from direct responsibility and obviating surface flows, which you know very well that they have a very important effect and obviating also the urban speculation that has historically damaged the Region of Murcia. But what they bring here today, moreover, aligns with the worst practices, pretending to open the channels that communicate the Lesser Sea and the Mediterranean, what in fact, you know, would destroy the ecosystem, besides not representing any solution. What is necessary is to end the illegal irrigation that you know. Sixty illegal plants and forty-two clandestine wells have been discovered by judicial and civil guard proceedings only in the last operation. The construction of the ditch you are proposing will not prevent the arrival of pollutants into the Minor Sea and you know it. You are trying to move the problem to the Mediterranean. We have tabled some amendments in a direction that is absolutely contrary to what you are proposing. First, yes, the urgent implementation of the investments planned by the Government of Spain for the recovery of the Mar Menor. Secondly, to condition all the aid provided for the new CAP must be accompanied by a commitment to sustainable agriculture, which thinks of small farmers, thinks of the territory and does not think - as you do and systematically defend, with intolerable demagogy - of the large agri-food industries and speculation. This is what you defend; the rest are stories. Strict compliance with the regulations of vulnerable areas; forest regeneration in accordance with the models tested in European projects and a reduction in agrarian pollution. [[The Lord]] You can continue to deny reality, you can continue to say that surface flows do not affect, you can continue to defend the privileged sectors, but you are ending sustainability, with a protected system, with those who do get early every day to go to work, not those you say get early every day, and you pose a serious, terrible and dangerous involution. Of course, we are going to support all the associations that are also calling for a popular legislative initiative to give greater protection to the Minor Sea, which is what is really needed.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-13-CD210413.u59	Your Honor, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-13-CD210413.u60	Speculation, no; protection, yes.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-13-CD210413.u61	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Martínez Granados has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-13-CD210413.u62	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I must say that when I read the title of this non-legislative proposal and commented on it with my colleagues we did not give any credit, especially because the signatory of the non-legislative proposal was VOX, the party that voted against the Climate Change Act. Of course, reading VOX and sustainability in the same sentence continues to draw our attention. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 5 p.m.]] When we read the initiative, we see that what matters least to you is the Sea Minor, and I explain myself. Year and a half after the episode of anoxia in the Lesser Sea, it is hard to forget the images of tons of dead fish and crustaceans that were accumulating on the shores of the beaches, an ecological tragedy that blacked out the urgent need to stop an environmental crisis that had unfortunately been announced for years. It was a wake-up call to a political class that was not doing its job, that was not acting with the urgency that Batian society needed and demanded. From Citizens in Murcia we immediately got to work, and we did so by being aware that the Minor Sea must be a matter of state and a matter of consensus. That is why we promoted the Law of Recovery and Protection of the Minor Sea, which was finally adopted with the support of Citizens, People's Party and Socialist Party, thirty-nine of the forty-five deputies of the Assembly of Murcia. From Citizens we demonstrate once again, and it is not the only one, that we can reach great agreements from the centre to promote the dialogue and agreements that society demands, but the situation of the Mar Menor is still far from being resolved in its entirety, so any initiative that seeks to give impetus to this protection must be taken into consideration and welcomed. But, as I was saying, despite the name, it seems that VOX is least concerned with the environmental sustainability of the Sea Minor. It seems to us that VOX's commitment to put his political affiliations and phobias before the evidence, presenting a non-legislative proposal plagued, in the best case, with occurrences, and in the worst, with openly irresponsible measures. They lack much rigour, we have seen it during the debate on the Climate Change Act and today, once again, we see the lack of rigour of this parliamentary group with regard to sustainability. VOX raises the need, because they have decided to do so, to open the gorges in order to ensure a greater exchange of water between the Mediterranean and the Lesser Seas. What makes this ecosystem unique is its salinity and the largest inlet of water in the Mediterranean, far from increasing it, could be the opposite. There is no evidence to support this proposal, Mr de VOX, which is why our amendment proposes that the goals should be opened, but only if it is considered appropriate by the experts who should speak and give the necessary instructions to improve these problems. They also propose to build a drainage ditch, proposed even more adventurous than the previous one, because not only do they not provide any technical report that supports it, but they venture to indicate the exact measurements: 6 meters deep, 2 meters wide, no more or less; so, a boat soon. This is not serious, it is an improvised and populist idea, very unprofessional and at all does not constitute a real alternative and a solution to such a complex problem. We do not trust you, because we know that what you really want is to repeal the Law of the Sea Minor, and no one escapes that the tone of the proposal goes in its negationist line of environmental problems. The Law of Recovery and Protection of the Sea Minor is a fundamental milestone in the conservation of this environmental jewel that we have the fortune to enjoy in Murcia, a law born of the consensus that Murcian society needs. If you really have an interest in protecting the Minor Sea, prove it, ratify it, accept the amendments we have tabled, because what you really have to do is show your support publicly for the Minor Sea Recovery and Protection Act. That's what the citizens of Murcia need. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-13-CD210413.u63	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mrs Borrego Cortés has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-13-CD210413.u64	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I rise to the rostrum to present my group's amendment to the initiative calling on the Government to take measures to protect the Mar Menor. We start from a premise that I thought I shared with the majority of this House and that, of course, I share with 100 percent of all the citizens of Murcia: the Mar Menor is a unique ecosystem, one of the most valuable natural spaces in Europe, with an indisputable ecological value. In addition, citizens are identified with this space because it is part of history, it is part of the life of each of the bats. But we have just heard a justification about a PNL without rigor, populist and far from what the scientific community has been identifying. The Mar Menor is not resolved at the headquarters of VOX, but according to the scientific criteria that mark us. We must make protection and regeneration compatible with agriculture and the development of activity in the sustainable and prosperous area. Our amendment has a first objective: zero discharge. The plan agreed between all administrations and civil society must be implemented. The ministry is not developing it, it has put it in a drawer; it did not want to include in the budgets a single euro for the Mar Menor in the year 2021. Moreover, all my group's amendments to ensure that this is the case have been vetoed or voted negatively. In the budget of 2021 there is not a single euro for the Mar Menor, although the competition is in the hands of the Government of Spain, it is in the hands of the State, it is in the hands of Costas, it is in the hands of the Confederación Hidrografica del Segura. The PSOE of Murcia criticizes the Government of the nation because it does nothing, but the competences are of the State, they are of the Government of Spain. The last example is very clear, we have seen it this week. The Minister of Ecological Transition committed herself in 2019 - in September 2019 - to say what dredge was suitable for cleaning our beaches. What happened? It's April 2021 and we still don't know which dragon is the right one. The mystery doesn't do anything or let anything be done. [[Applauds]] We call for action and funding to help the development and activities of the area - agriculture, fisheries, livestock, tourism - and compensate for losses to businesses, many of them SMEs and micro-SMEs operating around the Sea Minor. We in the People's Party are calling for tax subsidies for investors and for specific attention in both direct aid and European funds. We believe in the agreements, so we call for the creation of an entity that is involved by all administrations and chaired by a high commissioner. Our wish today would be to adopt a text unanimously - I do not think we can - and to get to work immediately. The ministry cannot be inactive any longer; it has the competencies, must act and must not boycott the actions from the Safe Hydrographic Confederation. It is inadmissible to modify the rules of exploitation of the Tajo-Segura transfer with the false hypothesis that the water of the transfer pollutes the Sea Minor. The assertion is not supported by a single scientific criterion. Since the ministry, the volume has been reduced to transfer, referring to the Cartagena Field and the State of the Sea Minor. If the water resources resulting from the transfer in the Cartagena Field are reduced, it would be impossible to use the purified waters, as well as those captured from the ramblas, which would end in the Minor Sea. It is only political criteria that discreetly curtail the volume to be transferred recommended by the technical commission of exploitation of the Tajo-Segura transfer. The Government of Spain will have against the region, it will have against it, if it continues in this direction. We will not consent to this discretionary action. The regeneration of the Minor Sea must be done without dogmatisms or sectarianisms, we must seek the consensus of the scientific and academic community and public-private collaboration to carry out the actions. With the governments of the PSOE in Madrid, the Region of Murcia falls into oblivion, permanent aggravation and indifference. They do not know the reality, nor do they care about the people living in the area. Infrastructural damage, water damage, financing damage. Ladies and gentlemen, the Sánchez Government's attitude is clear: it has spent more money on the helicopter ride that the President did in the area - which was neither good nor good for the citizens - than on the regeneration of the Mar Menor. However, the attitude of the regional government and the People's Party is and has been to put citizens' interests before political criticism and, to do so, to seek collaboration with the rest of the administrations, political groups, social groups and scientific community. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-13-CD210413.u65	Thank you. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-13-CD210413.u66	Thank you, President. It is not the first or only PNL on the recovery and protection of the Mar Menor; in fact, a PNL has already been discussed in the Ecological Transition Commission that went ahead with the vote against VOX. If, in the end, recovery and conservation are sought in the Minor Sea environment, we certainly understand that an agreement should be sought, bridges should be bridged and partisan interests should be set aside if the real goal is to ensure the environmental sustainability of that environment. Today you, ladies and gentlemen of VOX, are presenting a GNP of measures for the environment of the Mar Menor. However, we believe that they do not take into account the root of the problem, which is nothing other than intensive agriculture and excessive urban development, which has led, in the case of intensive agriculture, to an excess of water nutrients, derived from fertilizers that reach the filtration lagoon in aquifers or currents and also, as I have said, by such urban development. My group is not going to support this GNP because we believe that, once again, you are going to run counter to scientific opinion. Its GNP does not have the support of experts or scientists and, more than that, there are those who are foolish. With regard to the proposed measures, the reopening of the gorges to facilitate the exchange of water between the Mediterranean Sea and the Minor Sea to its 1950 size is not a new idea. This measure was even analysed and discarded already in 2017, through, in addition, a specific study of the Spanish Institute of Oceanography, which concluded that it was a harmful measure for the ecosystem and that it could even have much more negative consequences for the preservation of the marine ecosystem of the Sea Minor as it is now. In addition, the storm last September already dragged large amounts of water from the Mediterranean Sea to the salt lagoon and was one of the triggers of that collapse that it experienced. So why go back to measures that, of course, do not have the support of the scientific community? The remaining measures they propose are covered by the Ministry's zero discharge plan for the ecological transition and are even economically valued, such as the construction of operational sanitation or the opening of ditches. There is a comprehensive management plan for the protected areas of the Minor Sea and the strip of the Mediterranean coast of the Murcia Region, the Integrated Management Strategy for Coastal Areas of the Socio-economic System for the Minor Sea, the Zero Vertido Plan of Miteco, the Act on Urgent Measures to Ensure Sustainability and the Decree-Law on Comprehensive Protection of the Minor Sea. All these measures reflect a common denominator, which is to reduce the impacts of the Sea Minor and encourage sustainable actions, as well as to reorient the agricultural productive model for ecosystem recovery. We believe that an agreement must be reached by taking, of course, the measures established by the scientific community, and that is why we are voting against today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-13-CD210413.u67	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, Mr Sánchez Serna has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-13-CD210413.u68	Thank you, President. A few days ago we were listening to a Member of VOX say that global warming is actually a good thing because it serves to make fewer cold deaths, and when we had not yet recovered from the shame of others who always listen to these things, the Lords of VOX bring back another raft of occurrences, this time about the Mar Menor, the biggest salty lagoon in Europe and a sign of identity for the people of the Murcia Region. [[applause]] The Mar Menor has suffered in recent decades the effects of wild urbanism and uncontrolled agro-industry. Those responsible must be sought in the regional governments of the People's Party, which eliminated all kinds of environmental regulations and allowed the extreme contamination of the lagoon; regional governments of the People's Party where, by the way, she was Councilwoman Lourdes Méndez, now a member of the VOX bench. Today, moreover, it is a year and a half since the Minor Sea dawned with thousands of fish and crustaceans killed in an unprecedented anoxia crisis, images that turned the world around. But from this, of course, VOX's GNP says nothing, not a single measure to address the fundamental problem of the Mar Menor, which is nothing other than pollution by fertilizers of agricultural origin and the more than 3000 tons of nitrates that enter the lagoon every year. They say nothing because what really matters to them is to recover the ecosystem of the Mar Menor, but to shield the profits of the multinationals of the agro-industry, the same that have expelled the real farmers of the Camp de Cartagena, the ones that took the tomatoes and peppers to Morocco, those are those for which VOX works. The GNP they present is simply a nonsense that has no scientific backing. They propose to dredge the coves that link the Sea Minor with the Mediterranean to get the dirty water out and between the clean water, more or less clean the Sea Minor as who cleans or changes the water of a fish tank. But the Sea Minor and the Mediterranean are two very different habitats, with different species, with a different temperature and salinity. Mediterraneanism the Lesser Sea by opening the gorges is no solution, it would end the Lesser Sea and the characteristics that make it unique. That's what the scientific community tells us, and you, not even paying, have found someone who loves your insanity. But what they propose is not even new, it was done already in 1975, when the channel of the Estacio was dredged to open a navigable step in La Manga and favor the sports port of the famous Francoist promoter Tomás Maestra. That was the beginning of the disaster, sensitivity fell and the door was opened to invasive species that have extinguished the natives. It is something perfectly known and studied. So, nothing new. In the end, what you propose always leads us to the past; you crave hatred in the working quarters as did the Squadrists in the 1920s; you want to impose censorship in the classrooms as in the 1940s and 1950s and you propose the same barbarities for the Lesser Sea that the Francoists did in the 1970s. Not even in this are you original. [[Applauds]] But look, ladies and gentlemen, beyond the nonsense of the ultras, the solution for the Mar Menor is to tackle the problem at first, we cannot continue to put patches as it was done with the autonomous law of the Mar Menor, a law of the People's Party and Citizens which, surprisingly, was supported by the PSOE and which has only served to whitewash the polluting practices of agro-industry, now under the euphemism of sustainable agriculture of precision. Almost a year later, we have the same situation and the lagoon is still rotten by nitrates. From the United Nations We believe that the solution is to include the Sea Minor in the Spanish catalogue of habitats in danger of disappearance and to provide it with a legal personality, because if this disaster has been possible it is also because the current figures of protection failed streptically in protecting the albufera. Secondly, we have to move forward to declare the Mar Menor as a natural park, a park that includes already protected spaces such as the Salinas de San Pedro and Calblanque, and expand them with a protective barrier around the lagoon. According to the latest Cemop surveys, the regional surveyor, 92% of Murcian society would support the creation of this regional park. And I finish, President, with a doubt and a question for Mr Gestoso. This weekend a photo of the deputy Gesto and Santiago Abascal of Comilona with the landowners of the Camp de Cartagena was circulated in networks and in the media. Who paid for that food, Mr. Gesto? Did Mr. Luis del Rivero pay for it, the one with the Bárcenas papers? Or do you want all the bats to pay for it with the ultimate destruction of the Lesser Sea? Nothing more. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-13-CD210413.u69	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, Mr Soto Burillo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-13-CD210413.u70	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, the situation of the Mar Menor is today the biggest environmental problem we have in Spain. It is already almost three decades of non-compliance, disinterest and unprotectiveness and, in the face of this situation, VOX, the far right, is dispatched with an initiative proper to populism, negationism and continuism. Ladies and gentlemen of VOX, cousins of Rajoy's cousin, on the day you wrote this initiative you were very little, very little. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen of VOX, firstly, this initiative is an occurrence because it contains proposals that have no scientific criteria and that have no support from the scientific community; secondly, this initiative is an occurrence because some of these measures are the exclusive competence of the autonomous government and, thirdly, some of these measures are impossible. We are, ladies and gentlemen, in the face of barbarity and atrocity against the Minor Sea and agriculture. Yes, against agriculture, because what you are proposing is in the opposite direction to a cost-effective and sustainable growth model that European society demands in the 21st century, that consumers of agricultural products demand and, moreover, that farmers in our region offer and move us. Ladies and gentlemen, your speech on agriculture and the Mar Menor is false and harmful. [[Applauds]] Faced with their occurrences, the Socialists of the Murcia Region and this parliamentary group, together with the Government of Spain, have a firm commitment to the recovery and comprehensive protection of the most important salt lagoon in Europe, the Mar Menor; a commitment that is materialized by concrete and possible measures taken in the initiative that we presented and discussed very recently in this House. They are also reflected in the Government's road map. Some of them are already underway, such as the declaration of the quaternary aquifer at chemical risk, the D-7 channel bid to minimize the impact of floods in Los Alcázares or the recovery of mining branches. By the way, Mrs Borrego, more than EUR 146 million will be allocated to these measures under the General Budgets of the State of this Government. In addition, ladies and gentlemen, the Socialists are committed to a peaceful, cost-effective and sustainable coexistence of strategic sectors such as fisheries, agriculture and tourism, which is compatible with the recovery of the landscape, ecological and environmental value of the Mar Menor; a recovery, ladies and gentlemen, which will only be possible with loyalty and collaboration by all the administrations involved. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, three questions and two considerations. What has it done for you to repeal, just twenty years ago, the 1987 law of a socialist, pioneering and innovative government in the protection of the Minor Sea? Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, what good is it to you that the Murcia Regional Assembly - by the way, presided over by a transfugue - should pass laws that your government does not even comply with? And finally, what is the purpose of the regional president's low-flying chicken policy in his ongoing confrontation with the Spanish Government? Two considerations, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party. They apologize to the citizens for almost three decades of trophies against the Mar Menor and apologize for their undemocratic conduct during the last few weeks in the Murcia Region, apologize for accommodating transfuguism in institutions and apologize for selling education and culture to the far right. All they have to do is hand over the environment and the Mar Menor to the far right. The fraud and the reputational damage they have done to our land and our democracy are unacceptable. I'm done, ladies and gentlemen of the far right. We are more than four who fight for a living Sea, we are more than four who defend a public education without parental veto, we support culture and its creators, and we are more than four who will face denialism, hatred, xenophobia, racism...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-13-CD210413.u71	Your Honor, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-13-CD210413.u72	... homophobia, machism and also traps and transfuguism. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-13-CD210413.u73	Thank you very much. Mr Gestoso de Miguel, do you accept any of the amendments tabled?
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-13-CD210413.u74	No, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-13-CD210413.u75	Thank you. - the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress, on defending the work of the forces and security forces of the state, autonomous police and local police, as well as condemning recent episodes of violence. [[File number 162/000570]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-13-CD210413.u76	We continue with the non-legislative proposal of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress to defend the work of the State Security Forces, regional police and local police, as well as condemn the recent episodes of street violence. For the presentation of the initiative and the amendment tabled, Mr Anaya has the floor. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-13-CD210413.u77	Thank you, President. This non-law proposal, registered on 4 March, was intended primarily to defend and support the work of the State Security Forces, the National Police, the Civil Guard, regional police and local police, as well as to condemn incidents of street violence as a result of the arrest of criminal Pablo Hasel. Following the ruling of the National Court of 31 March, in which the contempt of Minister Grande-Marlaska for the performance of the constitutional functions of the State Security Forces and Corpses has been credited, the People's Parliamentary Group has decided to extend the purpose of this non-law proposal to urge the President of the Government to immediately dismiss the Minister of the Interior. [[Applauds]] After his inauguration, at the first appearance in July 2018, the minister paraphrased Cicero and said: the evidence is the most decisive demonstration, the evidence is the most decisive demonstration. Well, his work at the head of the ministry is characterized by the indignity of immorality, with irresponsible management and a course full of sectarian and arbitrary decisions, an attitude far removed from respect for the law, to which the minister is obliged, which should guarantee the security of all Spaniards, the compliance with the law and equality before it, which makes us all free beings. Indignity and immorality. One of the first calls was to the son of a victim of terrorism murdered by the butcher of Mondragon, a murderer sentenced to death in his possession. Well, it seems that that call was soon forgotten because this gentleman led the boycott of the tribute to the civilian guards assaulted in Alsasua. And what was the minister's answer? Silence; silence because, after agreement with Bildu on the investiture and the General Budgets of the State, after agreement with those who had terror as their sign of identity, they agreed to negotiate with those who used violence as a tool by which to obtain political benefits. After this pact, led by the minister, began a process of rapprochement of prisoners, which have become 165, of which 80 have blood crimes, with more than 170 murders behind their backs, without regret, without asking for forgiveness from the victims or collaborating with the justice for the clarification of the murders; a rapprochement that occurs on weekends by drip, so that it is not noticed. I announce that we will not cease in our denunciation of this immorality, driven by respect for the law and the dignity and memory of the victims, who deserve to be recognized; dignity that we see reflected also in this Chamber in the face of Jaime Mateu, Teresa Jiménez-Becerril and also José Alcaraz. [[Applauds]] Irresponsibility and inability for the abandonment of citizens, their security, their freedoms in the streets of Barcelona or Madrid, as we saw recently in Vallecas, with more than 21 police officers injured. The minister's response, silence; silence that makes him guilty because of the extra responsibility of those who have the capacity and means to guarantee freedom and security on the streets. This silence or justification favors a process of normalization of violence encouraged by the Government and the political groups that support it, which have shown this support on Twitter, both the Minister of Equality and the Minister of Social Rights. Violence, of course, is not a new fact. What is new is the legitimacy given by the members of the Council of Ministers. There is the novelty, in a very serious process of normalizing violence as a valid political tool. We also complain, of course, that the Ministry gives instructions that may involve the violation of a fundamental right such as the inviolability of the domicile, article 18.2 of the Constitution. How is it possible that there are parties that do not find arguments to oppose this new version of the kick on the door? Sectarism and arbitrariness, because the judgement of March 31 reveals an unprecedented abuse of power: the arbitrary separation of the head of the Civil Guard in Madrid from Colonel Pérez de los Cobos for not informing socialist leaders of criminal investigations, despite the duty of reservation and the explicit order of the magistrate, which prevented a public servant from transferring this information. Colonel Pérez de los Cobos was punished for complying with the law. How do the parties that support the government explain the defence of a minister who asks an official to violate the law? What do those who claim to defend the rule of law, who are filled with their mouths talking about democracy or decency, think? The more they try to hide reality, the more they will notice the emptiness of their arguments and the more defenseless they stand before the truth. They have even dared to deny the promotion to the generalate being the number one of their promotion. This will be the political epitaph of Mr.Grand-Marlaska, the stubborn maintenance of his mistakes for pride or for believing that, if he corrected them, he would expose his clumsiness to question his capacity, even at the cost of harming democracy. How far is Mr. Grand-Marlaska's desire for power? How far is the Minister of the Interior willing to go to ensure the support of his partners and thereby the sustainability of the Government? Ladies and gentlemen, because we do not guarantee the security of the Spaniards, because we generate disquiet, because of the continued interference in the State Security Forces and Corpses, because we do not defend freedom and legality throughout the territory equally, we urge the immediate dismissal of the Minister of the Interior, Fernando Grande-Marlaska, with this proposal not to law the President of the Government. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-13-CD210413.u78	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] In defence of the amendment tabled by the VOX Group, Mr Fernández Hernández has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-13-CD210413.u79	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, they are the objectives of this non-legislative proposal presented by the People's Group, in essence, condemning members of the Government for supporting the acts of violence that have taken place in recent weeks, supporting and defending the work of the State Security Forces and Corpses - National Police, Civil Guard, Autonomous Police and local police - and increasing the means of preventing and combating such acts of violence. But, actually, what are we talking about? In fact, we are talking about the condemnation of the constant violence that always comes from the same, from the left - always comes from the same - because they do not accept that others think differently from them, because they do not accept that we act differently from them, because they do not accept that we live differently from them. [[applause]] And a clear example of this is the violence that occurred on the left following the arrest and imprisonment of criminal Hasel, because criminal Hasel represents as no one what the left is today in Spain. A person sentenced four times for the heightening of terrorism, aggression and constant attacks on State institutions. But there are other examples of violent behaviors also on the left: the violent acts we suffered in VOX a few days ago in Vallecas for the only crime of holding a political act. Hundreds of energetics surrounded us, insulted us and threw all kinds of objects at us, even reaching a deputy of this house to be seriously injured. These hundreds of energums are part of the same criminal gang - because we have to call things by their name -, the Bukaneros, who have terrorized the Vallecas neighborhood. The valecans don't deserve that. [[Applauds]] It's a criminal gang run by Mr. Iglesias' personal machaca, or maybe this criminal gang is being run directly by Mr. Iglesias? Because if this were so, they are no longer statements by some members of the government supporting acts of violence, it would already be directly linked by Mr. Iglesias to the violent acts of Vallecas, and that means a link with criminal relevance. That is why I ask the Group of the European People's Party to accept our amendment, because it perfectly complements its proposal, because the other day it was we who received those stones, but in the next few days it may be you, and because millions of Spaniards are waiting and demanding that in this matter, at this point, we go together the truly constitutionalist parties. [[Applauds]] Because only the constitutionalist parties, the really constitutionalist parties, can face together, with democracy and freedom, the acts of violence of the left. [[Applauds]] By the way, ladies and gentlemen of Citizens, we do always condemn violent acts against you, which you do not do, because we are not like you. [[Applauds]] And that despite your pitiful and pathetic behavior in Murcia, and that despite you have already sold your soul to the left. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-13-CD210413.u80	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Sayas López has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-13-CD210413.u81	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. We, of course, are going to join in supporting this GNP and we are going to do so, first of all, to show our full solidarity and support with the State Security Forces and Corpses, with the autonomous police and with the municipal police, who have to fight for their security on so many occasions to defend that of all. And also, of course, we are going to add to something that is obvious, and that is that the Minister of the Interior cannot follow a minute more at the head of the ministry, because every minute that is in the ministry for the only thing that serves is to further degrade this institution and to show the little respect it has for the Spanish as a whole. [[applause]] Many times the police not only have to confront these haters infected with totalitarianism, those defenders of the only ideology of totalitarian and unique thinking who believe that the streets of our country belong to them and that they tear down urban furniture, shops, businesses and even the security of people, many of them police officers who protect us all, but also that these police officers have to endure that a Government, the Government of Spain, has ministers who cheer and applaud the violent and the aggressors, and who rely on this Parliament in parties that applaud each of these violent actions. What can Spanish society expect from a government that has ministers who applaud violence or who rely on parties that hold violence? I will remind you of some things that are basic and essential. All Spaniards have the right to say what we think in a free, democratic and peaceful way. No Spaniard can use violence either to express his ideas or to oppose others. The streets, squares and cities of our country belong to all Spaniards, and all Spaniards can go to the square, street or corner that gives us the desire of Spain to speak of our ideology, to defend our positions, or to criticize those of others, provided that we do so in a peaceful and democratic way. [[Applauds]] This, which is so basic, is called democracy and the non-democratic should simply not be in a public office in our country and much less in the Spanish government, because we have ministers and parties that support the Spanish government that have supported violence as a lawful element to defend positions or to oppose those that they do not like, and that is totalitarianism, that is not democracy. But, of course, sanchism has denigrated both the institutions that the violent are emboldened, those who applaud the violence occupy ministries and those who respect democracy and the law, comply with and enforce it, are ceased and have to suffer a personal cost. That's what we have in Spain. [[Applauds]] That is what we have seen with Mr Pérez de los Cobos, a gentleman who has been stopped for refusing to comply with an illegal order; with a sentence, because it is illegal and so has been said by the courts. Therefore, if the Government of Spain has a minimum of ethics and a minimum of respect for the Spaniards, Mr Marlaska cannot continue to lead the ministry for another minute. But, unfortunately, this government, of what is being an example, is not having scruples and of having great contempt for the Spaniards, because the case of Marlaska is not the only one. We've also seen Mr. Ábalos make fun of all the Spaniards with the Delcy case and lie to our faces. And we have seen Mrs Montero at the head of the Ministry of Finance tell us that 53 million euros have been given to the Plus Ultra company because it is a strategic company for our country. It is that we have a government that directly mocks us in the face and I believe that the least that can be asked of the Spanish government is to respect the Spaniards it governs. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-13-CD210413.u82	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Iñarritu García has the floor for the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-13-CD210413.u83	Thank you very much, Mr President. Pick it up on. Ladies and gentlemen of the Group of the European People's Party, this is a very small amendment that has been made! In the proposal they bring today there is a first point which is, at least, curious. They call for condemnation of those statements by members of the Government who question Spain as a full democracy and, at the same time, you accuse members of government parties of appealing or giving messages in support of violence. Does it not seem contradictory to you that there is a full democracy when there are members of the Government who call for violence? Moreover, today they bring us a self-amendment that they have made not to expand, as you said, but to contradict the previous one, which says that the Government is violating fundamental rights. If the government is violating fundamental rights, you will agree with me that Spain cannot be an exemplary democracy. The first thing you have to do now, as you asked in your proposal, is to condemn yourself for questioning the institutions of the State. Spain cannot be an exemplary democracy if everything you say is fulfilled. I do not believe that Spain is an exemplary democracy for any of the things you mention and for others, such as the heritage received by the People's Party in internal affairs. There is the Law gag and there we also have all the repressive architecture they used during their years of government. The police assemblies, the false reports and the patriotic police - by the way, we are now on a commission of inquiry into Operation Kitchen, which will ring a bell - show that there is a problem in the Interior. It is not just a question of changing the minister, it is a question of changing all those rules and all those protocols and forms of action that you have put into effect. I think it is contradictory that it can be an exemplary democracy and that the only one that has just mentioned Spain as an example was Mr Erdogan, who has mentioned them as an example of the illegalization of parties. I don't know if you'll be proud of Mr Erdogan's congratulations. But let's get into what your motion was about, which is law and order. On the question of public order you magnify it and take it to such terms, as if similar events of disorder did not occur in some of the mobilizations that occur in Spain, which according to data from the Ministry of the Interior are minimal, but which also occur in other States, either in Greece, France, the United Kingdom at this time or in the Netherlands. You equate them to levels that would at least be debatable in terms of police management and modeling. But, of course, when you are more concerned about the state of a container or a marquee than the one that takes a look at a gentleman who, presumably, has been involved in a mobilization because of a rubber ball or a foam ball, or who opens his head with a police baton or who denounces ill-treatment after an arrest, as happened last week here in Madrid, more serious, as happened in Linares with a gentleman who, by being in a mobilization, the National Police hit him two shots by mistake, or like the other day in Vallecas, when in a police action we saw a national police throwing stones; you will explain to me what protocol or police model that is. The truth is that Spain also has a problem in the model of public order management, and not because I say so; in the last month there has been a conviction of the European Court of Human Rights for police disproportionateness in a mobilization, but it is not the only one, it is the second in six months; by the way, of governments in which you were in. Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, it is obvious that this proposal that the People's Party is bringing today is against you, but could you tell me what your government has done in the management of public order or the Interior that is different from what they did? Because so far, beyond some tweet or statement, they have done nothing different. I believe that it is time to move from tweets to the Official State Gazette and, as we have told you as active and passive, to repeal already the Mordaza Law, the Law on the Protection of Citizens' Security, as requested by the United Nations and the Council of Europe, but also the majority of this House a priori. You will tell us why it has not yet been repealed. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-13-CD210413.u84	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-13-CD210413.u85	Thank you very much, President. The People's Parliamentary Group presents an initiative initially linked - then it has taken a turn of one hundred and eighty degrees - to the public order incidents that occurred during the arrest and entry into prison of Mr. PabloHasel, in compliance with sentences for the content of some of his lyrics. The Basque Nationalist Party has already expressed its rejection of both Mr Hasel's letters and any manifestation, opinion or criticism accompanied by violence, looting or vandalism, as well as its support for the authorities entrusted in every democratic society with the protection of the free exercise of rights and freedoms and the legitimate use of force, provided that it is proportionate, to ensure citizen security, as well as pointing out the improper use of abusive or offensive messages or comments on social networks against public representatives. However, ladies and gentlemen, all this does not lead us to show our support for the initiative, for in some of its contents they are based on the view that the Government does not support the security forces it directs or provide them with the material, human and organizational means necessary to combat public order events such as those experienced. And, moreover, because it does not do so in the way that the People's Party would politically like, which, on the other hand, is quite logical and understandable in view of what the public policies of that political party were in relation to citizen security and the Penal Code when it ruled. Nor can we share - due to hasty and pending judicial assessment - the consideration, also produced by self-amendment and without connection to the statement of reasons for the non-law proposal, that from the Ministry of the Interior instructions are given to the State Security Forces and Bodies that involve a violation of fundamental rights of the citizen, such as the police entry into a tourist home where there was a serious activity harmful to public health in the pandemic situation in which we are in and which is causing thousands of deaths and an unprecedented social, economic and health collapse. This action must certainly not be continued in the light of the doubts which it can raise without having the appropriate legal reports before it, including the highest consultative body of the Government, which is the Council of State, which will clear up any doubts which might arise as to their legality, in the event that the consent of the persons who have the tourist flat or the mandatory judicial decision is not sought before. [[The lady]] In addition, the Government, which is also a product of self-amendment, is urged to cease monitoring social media criticisms against it, which, in our view, does not seem to be a very reasonable request, since any public or private institution of a certain size monitors, with its own or contracted means, the consideration or assessment that citizens make of their actions through surveys, monitoring of social media or so-called social networks; although it is different whether it seems most appropriate for the Government to use the police to monitor in public opinion the assessment of their activity and public policies, or to tackle false news that directly affects public health and to prevent its spread by notifying citizens in situations of pandemics, which we consider to be inefficient, since other public media aimed more specifically at this function are available for this purpose. But this lack of adequacy of means for purposes does not in any way lead us to call for the reprobation of the Minister of the Interior, nor for the cessation of the head of the Madrid Civil Guard Command, which, in any case, is still a matter of final judicial resolution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-13-CD210413.u86	Thank you very much, Mr. Legarda. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Gutiérrez Vivas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-13-CD210413.u87	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Fernández, I see you very concerned about our soul. Don't worry about our soul, worry about yours, which sometimes looks a little black. I'll tell you why. Look, I'm going to tell you very quietly; you've tried to look for thirty seconds of glory in your intervention because the rest has been a disaster, but it's just that you're not even going to get those thirty seconds. As I know the people in your group are well-documented and well-formed, it was very easy to know that all our Members have condemned what happened to you, all of you, and you have it in all your tweets and in all your speeches; Mrs Arrimadas, Mr Bal, Mrs Villacis, Mr Aguado, all of you; you have it, check it out. By which, do not come here to lie - to lie - because you only know how to do that, lie, and those thirty seconds of glory will not have you; the only thing you will have is the denunciation of being a lying deputy and of lying in this Chamber and in that rostrum; yes, because what you have said is a lie, therefore, you are a lying deputy. [[rumors]] Anyway, let's get to the subject we're dealing with. Ladies and gentlemen, it pains us to use freedom - a principle to which we have devoted many hours of our lives - as an alibi for all kinds of misdeeds. Ladies and gentlemen, cutting traffic with barricades, assaulting and looting shops, destroying windows, causing fires, illegally using pyrotechnics or assaulting agents of the State Security Forces and Bodies is and can never be freedom of expression. Every week the liberals have to go up to this rostrum to repeat the obvious between two Spanish who fight and who do not listen: there is only freedom where there is a rule of law, a rule of law that citizens have freely given to ourselves and to future generations of Spaniards. Only the law and the State Security Forces and Corpses guarantee our freedom. Because where there is no law, there is law of the jungle, ladies and gentlemen; because freedom, ladies and gentlemen, is to respect the laws, also the electoral ones - now that we are on the campaign - and that the sentences are done by the judges and not the politicians. Enough, gentlemen of Podemos; enough, Mr Echenique. Those responsible for all these crimes are not romantic fighters of the anti-fascist cause. You, a ruling party, have unleashed and justified riots that have crushed thousands of honest workers and neighbors who had enough of the COVID crisis until their street heroes arrived. You, gentlemen of Podemos, do not deserve to be in the government of this country. It's not that they don't deserve it, it's that they prove, whenever they can, that they're a public danger. They have great power, no matter how much they are willing to burn, lie and face anyone to keep it. Ladies and gentlemen, saying that Pablo Hasel has been arrested for making music would be like saying that Mr Echenique was convicted by Social Security for hiring an assistant or that his deputy, Alberto Rodríguez, has just testified before the judge for having gone to a demonstration. In the lie, in the defamation of Spain and its rule of law, Lords of Podemos, you are the same as your separatist partners. Thousands of neighbors, entrepreneurs, self-employed, saw how their businesses, offices and homes were threatened by the violent actions of these radicals. In case it wasn't enough with all this, hoteliers and merchants have suffered a non-small amount of economic losses, not to mention families and neighbors who have been scared all these days. These protests that have spread not only in Barcelona but in other cities such as Valencia, Granada or Madrid, where the same modus operandi of assaults on police officers, destruction in shops, destruction of urban furniture, give us the example of what should never be our society. No supposed right can be defended with violence either in a democracy or in any other medium-civilized forum. We therefore condemn these deplorable and shameful actions which put at risk not only the agents of the National Police but also the neighbours, businesses and self-governing of many cities. We want to express our support for all the actors and our gratitude for their daily work, in which we play the role of defending the rights and freedoms of all in an exemplary way. Finished. Ladies and gentlemen, it is so easy to distinguish good from evil in one case from these, that one does not understand the pirouettes they have to give in order to cover up the violent. I understand that you live from hatred and power at all costs, so you are populists. We are liberal, so please ask them to stop manoeuvring freedom. Thank you, President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-13-CD210413.u88	Thank you, Mr. Gutiérrez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] The Plural Parliamentary Group has the floor, first of all, Mr Rego Candamil.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-13-CD210413.u89	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, when it comes to clarifying social or democratic rights, you always choose the policy of war or peace, it is clear that it is in your DNA. The point is that, although unfortunately this is still the usual policy of the governments in charge, it still seems to you little. Perhaps they should thank this coalition government for repealing its gag law, which far from doing so is the government that has used it most. But no, you always want more. Please note that in my country, Galicia, practically all mobilizations are peaceful and yet we frequently witness abusive practices such as unnecessary charges, arbitrary arrests, improper recordings or unjustified identification. It said practically the whole because it is true that there is one that comes out of these parameters, curiously encouraged by the People's Party at the service of spurious interests such as those of Ence Energia and Cellulosa, in which you placed a minister like Isabel Tocino, known for his connections with the Royal House and the escaped king emeritus...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-13-CD210413.u90	Thank you very much, Mr. Rego. Your time's up. For the same parliamentary group, Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-13-CD210413.u91	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Marshal, from the deep intellectual respect that you deserve me, there is a great proposition that you have had to defend today! Is this really what concerns citizens? Really? Really? Or are we campaigning? Or are they afraid someone's gonna eat their toast? [[Mr. Mariscal Anaya makes affirmative signs]] Not you, because I'm saying you deserve deep respect. The person who followed him has spoken the word 'energumens'. For me, the most energetic is the one who lives out of hatred among citizens; the most energetic is the one who deliberately provokes by jumping the police line to try to find the mess. That is an energum, that is to have little respect for the forces of authority. Seriously - I insist -, with all due respect, the PP will have to choose between following the game of haters or professional troublemakers or being a serious game again, because they cannot always be thinking about the elephants that VOX leaves them at the door. And when I asked if this interests citizens; citizens - according to the latest CIS survey - are interested in unemployment, health and problems. And you know what the fifth problem is? The misbehaviour of politicians, which precisely causes more problems rather than avoiding them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-13-CD210413.u92	Thank you very much, Mr. Baldoví. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Finally, for the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mrs Nogueras and Mrs Camero have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-13-CD210413.u93	Thank you, President. Self-criticism must be expressed about how we provide public services, especially those that directly affect the exercise of fundamental human rights. In Catalonia self-criticism has been exercised every time it has been necessary. I remind you, Mr Mariscal, of the Commission for the Study of Security and Public Order Models and the Use of Anti-Disturbing Materials in Mass Events, in which the Catalonian Parliament gave a strong statement on urban violence. A full democracy must have effective control mechanisms in the face of any bad police practice, and it is valid for Catalonia and should also be valid for the Kingdom of Spain. For this reason, in our country, in Catalonia, far more advanced standards of conduct have been developed than those that regulate the performance of other environmental security bodies. During his long years of government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, there was no in-depth questioning of his police model. In fact, a few weeks ago in a parliamentary response, the Ministry of the Interior acknowledged that it did not have data on any files opened to members of the State Police riot control units in the past 20 years. They do not intend to flag what they did not manage properly, because one thing is what some do, that is, that Spain is a full democracy, and another very different is to behave as a full democracy. I'm on my way. Perhaps you should remember that the urgent call of the Board of Seguretat of Catalonia is not within the competence of this House. In accordance with Article 168.4 of the Statute of Catalonia, the Board of Securities of Catalonia is chaired by the President of the Generalitat of Catalonia and is therefore responsible for convening the meeting. Perhaps in the coven they pushed against the Statute of Catalonia a few years ago, they had to challenge this competition as well, but today it is still in force. They resent the little self-government we have and know it, but at the very least, keep the forms in those questions set by the legal order that you so much sacramentalize. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-13-CD210413.u94	Thank you, Mrs. Nogueras. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, Mr Santiago Romero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-13-CD210413.u95	President, ladies and gentlemen, democracies, unlike dictatorships, are in permanent construction until they achieve the full satisfaction of all human rights for all people. In this task we democrats endure daily with patience and stoicism the disqualifications of you, of those who lived placidly in the dictatorship which, by the way, you called organic democracy. The Spaniards know that it is not an indicator of democratic quality to condemn artists and singers for exercising their freedom of expression, whether we agree with them or not, or to criticize an inherited head of state not subject to electoral control, or to punish trade unionists for exercising the right to strike or suffer retired soldiers channeling on the extermination of millions of Spanish and Spanish, or that in bodies of armed officials neutrality is lost and abuses are committed by ultra-right interference. Our democracy has much to improve until all people in our country have a quality job that allows them to live decently, a home in conditions to live with their family where their children have sufficient means to study, or have a decent pension to end their lives without falling into poverty. But for the young people democracy is only allowing us to deposit a ballot paper in an urn every four years. For the working people democracy will be better able to achieve the full guarantee of all rights, to achieve decent living conditions for all, and to come to vote or manifest itself is an indispensable means of achieving it, but it alone does not believe that democracy works well. There will be no democratic normality as long as the tax money is expolated in Spain through the privatization of public services or through the massive corruption practised by the People's Party. United We can be a force that defends peace, contrary to all violence, not just one, like the right. We are opposed to the various forms of violence that the powerful have always applied to the weakest; the violence of hunger, unemployment, exploitation and job insecurity, evictions and energy poverty. It is a Democrat who defends democracy and human rights for all people, not just for his privileges. [[Mr. Mariscal Anaya shows a photograph]] And this GNP aims to criminalize the right of demonstration or the freedom of expression and demonstration set out in the Constitution. The People's Party and its alter ego VOX make hatred and contempt for the different its main political sign. They say they condemn the hate attacks suffered on social networks by representatives of political parties and citizens in general, but they have not yet condemned the permanent harassment of the United States Podemos, they have not condemned the incendiary attack on the headquarters of Podemos in Cartagena or the fascist attacks on the premises of the United Left in León and Burgos or the so constant racist attacks on Serigne Mbaye, a candidate for the Community of Madrid. Nor have they condemned the constant death threats to Pablo Iglesias and other members of the Unidad Podemos, even in public positions of the People's Party. We will not tire of repeating that incitement to violence and hate speech have no place in democracy. And they have not said a word of the hatred displayed by the ultra-right in Vallecas, applauded by his party, by the People's Party. [[Mr. Mariscal Anaya shows a photograph]] VOX organizes a concentration, yes, yes, deliberately to provoke altercations; they insult and throw objects to the neighbors and since there are no provocations, Abascal descends from the atril, breaks the circle of security and causes a police charge against the neighbors of Vallecas, neighbors to whom they describe as follows: Most of these people are gentuza who neither studies nor works - says Mr OrtegaSmith-Molina literally -; confirming the words of Albert Camus: 'Every form of contempt, if it intervenes in politics, prepares or establishes fascism'. [[applause.- Rumours]] [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-13-CD210413.u96	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-13-CD210413.u97	The PP does not come out or go out publicly to defend the silent and working majority, the neighbors of Vallecas insulted and assaulted in their neighborhoods by the new ultra-rightist somatones, but goes out to whitewash those who spread racism, machismo, hatred and homophobia. The People's Party justifies these statements: Wait for people to go out on the street, the Nuñez de Balboa is going to seem like a joke to them, Diaz Ayuso said... [[Strong Rumors.-Applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, on the stand]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-13-CD210413.u98	Thank you very much, Mr. Santiago. Your time's up. [[Mr Santiago Romero pronounces words that are not perceived]] Thank you very much, Mr Santiago, for your time. [[Rumors]] Quiet, please. Mr. Sánchez del Real, you know you can't do demonstrations of the kind you're doing and you can't show banners, even if they're very modern on an iPad. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, Mr López Cano has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-13-CD210413.u99	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. I want to tell you three things about what you have presented here today. First of all, and since it could not be otherwise, our strongest condemnation of violence, without buts, without buts and without nuances. [[Applauds]] Both the President and the Vice-President have already expressed this; there is no constitutional right to justify violence and no right in democracy can be demanded using violence. Our rejection is not from now on, it is always and in any case, because it is a principle inherent in our status as socialists and democrats. But look, there are many types of violence, and besides condemning them, we have to work to eradicate them and deny their existence and their causes, of course, it is not a way to do so. For example, violence against women, sexist violence, which has, yes, in gender inequality; or violence against lesbians, gays and transsexuals, which also has, yes, in sexual orientation; or violence against immigrants, which has also in their race and origin, and violence against the Menas, who are minors, ladies and gentlemen of VOX, to see if they enter them, who are minors and who must be protected and brought to our notice. [[applause]] [[Applauds]] Violence does not arise spontaneously, it is escalating steps that arise from hate speech, sometimes even expressed in this House, and culminate in violence on too many occasions. Therefore, we must combat hate speech and not agree with it, ladies and gentlemen of the PP, if they want to be credible. Spain is a plural country, but there is something that shares the vast majority of people and it is the rejection of those who promote social division. The responsibility of those who are here is not to foster social division, it is to promote coexistence and not to strain it. Let no one seek us socialists in the politics of polarization, the socialists will find us in the search for democratic coexistence as we have been doing for a hundred and forty-three years. [[Applauds]] Secondly, our unbridled support for the work of the State Security Forces and Bodies, as we always do. If we drive them now, of course we do! Socialists have always regarded security as a public service, as a public good. The members of the State Security Forces and Corpses are public workers and support them does not consist of wearing bracelets or bringing PNL here. By the way, they are also not supported by setting up an illegal para-police operative to spy on Barcenas to take away the illegal financing papers of the PP as you did in Kitchen, no. [[Applauds]] Nor are they supported, by the way, by cutting as they did 12,000 police, police and civilian guards during Mariano Rajoy's seven-year government, which is what they did, or by promising a salary equalization they kept in a drawer. You who always boast of professing so much love to the police and the Civil Guard, seeing what you do, I tell you something, don't love you so much and will love you better. They are wanted by supporting them, as is done by this Government and as is done by Minister Marlaska, who does not cut, no, increases by 5000 new police and civilian guard positions, this is how they support the State Security Forces and Bodies or wage-equalization. We promised and fulfilled the three sections, the last in the pandemic, a 20% wage increase for the police and the Civil Guard who, by the way, did not ask for it because they were loyal people, but it was done because it was fair. Let us go from here and from the Socialist Group all our support for the State Security Forces and Bodies, the local police and the autonomous police for all the work they always do and, above all, for the work they are doing in the midst of the pandemic. All recognition will never be enough, but here is that of the Socialist Group today. I'm on my way. You have not brought this non-law proposal here either to condemn violence or to support the security forces, you have brought it here to attack this government, so we are not going to support it. What we are going to do is to give unbridled support from the Socialist Group to a minister with a magnificent management such as that of Minister Marlaska who, moreover, has put an end to that deplorable political police that you had, and that is what bothers you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-13-CD210413.u100	Thank you very much, Mr. Lopez. Mr Mariscal, do you accept your group's amendment?
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-13-CD210413.u101	Let's study it.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-13-CD210413.u102	Thank you very much. It informs the Bureau as soon as they take the decision.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-13-CD210413.u103	We then proceed to discuss the motion resulting from an urgent inquiry by the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Baldoví Roda, on the urgent need for reform of the autonomous financing system, as well as the establishment of compensatory measures such as the levelling fund until such reform is carried out. For the author group of the initiative and for the defence of the motion, Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-13-CD210413.u104	Thank you very much, Madam President. Yesterday and this very morning, we saw the announcements of the Minister of Finance about fiscal reform and the arguments he quoted to me seem impeccable: to pay those who have the most, to fight inequality, to redistribute wealth, just what he asks Compromís with this motion. We are calling for a new funding system, we are not asking for the moon, we are asking for a new funding system that seven years ago should have been approved. We've been with the expired system for seven years, five years longer than the General Council of the Judiciary. For what? To redistribute resources, to give to those who have less and the Valencian Autonomous Community - and not my words - is a genuine democratic anomaly in the issue of financing. We have a gross domestic product below the average, so we are an autonomous community that would be among the poor and instead contribute to the general box as if it were a rich autonomous community, that is, we contribute more and receive less resources than the average. It is an under-funded and indebted community, basically the result of this under-financing, of almost EUR 50 billion, almost 50% of GDP, almost EUR 10,000 for every Valencian and every Valencian. A number of amendments have been tabled to our proposal, which we outlined a couple of weeks ago with the question to the minister. That of the People's Party - which continues in the electoral campaign - mixes financing with merinas and talks about inheritance tax, property tax, in short, other things that have nothing to do with it. However, I recognize that they have a contribution on which the Government would do well to take note, which is precisely when they refer to the deficit that will be generated in the years 2022 and 2023 by the tax collapse of these years. I'd pay attention now and go set the stage. The Citizens' Amendment - and I have to thank Mrs Muñoz for the effort she has made - would be an amendment, and I tell you frankly, that I would gladly sign. It is a very good amendment which could - and I also say this to the Socialist Party - be a good compromise on the basis of that amendment. And the amendment tabled to us by the PSOE and the UN We can really seem unambitious, too inconcrete because it contains verbs such as initiating, analysing, studying. Let's see, it's all analyzed, it's all studied and you don't have to start, you have to do, a verb so easy and so usual in Spanish, do, not start the process of... No, do, implement. In 2017, the Conference of Autonomous Presidents already established a committee which, after twenty meetings, issued its opinion. Therefore, we no longer need to study, we need to implement measures, and what we are asking is the same thing that the Valencian Corts - we do not ask for the moon - unanimously, the institutional declaration of all the groups - Socialist, Popular, Podemos,Citizens and Compromises - or the joint Commission Consell-Corts Valencianes, which unanimously also asked for the same thing. We are only asking for absolutely reasonable things, to put forward a proposal - we are not asking for it to be approved - so that we can discuss it, and that is the first step. Let's take the first step or we'll never move forward. Secondly - I think there is a consensus here - that there should be a levelling fund. There are five autonomous communities that are below the average: Andalusia, Valencian Community, Murcia, Galicia and Castile-La Mancha; there is that leveling fund that places us on the average while it is approved, and obviously for absolutely necessary expenses, for our public services, for reconstruction, to deal with the crisis, in short, how just a progressive government should do, to help those who have less, those who are worse, to advance at least to the average. The corporal. I mean it from the heart, we want to reach an agreement. This is a claim of the whole Valencian society above parties. We want to reach an agreement. That's why I'm asking PSOE and the United Nations to make an effort to comply with the investment agreement that Compromís trusted you and made Pedro Sánchez president of the government. Therefore, what we ask is reciprocity, to fulfill.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-13-CD210413.u105	Thank you very much, Mr. Baldoví. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] In defence of the amendments put forward by your groups, the Joint Parliamentary Group intervenes, which will also fix a position on this occasion, Mr Martínez Oblanca.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-13-CD210413.u106	Thank you very much, Madam President. I fully agree with the need for reform of the autonomous financing system, which is another of the commitments not met by the Government of Pedro Sánchez, which has not found time in these nearly three years of president to undertake the reform of the unjust, unequal and discriminatory measures in force since 2009, which had already had to be reformed in 2014, then with the Government of the People's Party. However, the text of Mr Baldoví's initiative, filled with a legitimate militant Valencianism, forgets a key concept for Spain of autonomy that was generated after the model transition. This concept is called solidarity and was crushed in 2009 by the then government of Mr Rodríguez Zapatero, dragging himself to a growing inequality between Spaniards with this perverse system that remains in force twelve years later. Ladies and gentlemen, although the proposer has forgotten about it, I have tabled an amendment with which I intend to focus the objectives to which I urge the Government to undertake a reform that really needs urgent action. It would be said that for some communities it is a matter of emergency, because in the unequal distribution of resources some are badly damaged, tearing case of Asturias. The amendment first called for the promotion of a new funding model that would ensure solidarity and constitutional equality between Spanish people and their territories, taking into account the population, ageing and circumstances affecting the cost of public services, as well as budgetary stability requirements. The second point calls on the Government to allocate the annual appropriations dedicated in Chapter 6 to investment in the State General Budgets Act with criteria that preserve efficiency in the selection of public expenditure and the fairness of its distribution among autonomous communities, avoiding comparative aggravations between regions. Finally, I would like to point out that I share with the Member of the Com mission and other parliamentary groups the continuing concern about autonomous financing, because essential public services - health, education, social services, dependence - depend on it, but it is not encouraging the attitude of the Government to tackle this issue, which calls for more discrimination in the distribution of resources, as already noted in the current Budget Act, and an uncertain turn-off at the expense of territorial tensions. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-13-CD210413.u107	Thank you very much, Mr Martínez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the same parliamentary group and to establish a position, Mr Mazón Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-13-CD210413.u108	Good afternoon. Thank you very much, Madam President. We have already spoken many times since the PRC on the issue of autonomous financing in general, and in this motion on the financing of the Valencian Community we cannot fail to repeat the same thing. The fundamental criterion to be considered should be the equality of citizens with respect to basic public services that are provided by the obligation of the State, live where they live. Therefore, let us go ahead with our solidarity with the inhabitants of the Autonomous Community of Valencia, who have the same right as the rest of the Spaniards. But in order to achieve this in the services provided from the autonomous communities, which are largely dependent on State funding, the actual cost of these services must be taken into account and this cost varies greatly depending on how the population is distributed, so the dispersion must be assessed. On another occasion it already indicates that administrative classifications are quite artificial and do not respond to fully objective facts, but rather are a consequence of historical and cultural facts, and that it is high time that modern measuring techniques, which are perfectly possible today, are actually applied to measure dispersion. We have data, we have instruments and, moreover, we need to enhance that digital transformation that we cite so much and that we then do not dare to use for partisan criteria. Another great concept that must be respected is the maintenance of the minimum status quo. All or almost all of the autonomous communities have serious funding shortfalls and all claim historical debts, and here the Valencian Generalitat is not the only one. It is therefore imperative that the current minimum be maintained for all and provided with sufficient resources for all publicly funded basic services to be provided on an equal footing. In this motion there is something we cannot agree with, which is the express reference to per capita funding when it comes to distributing funds among the autonomous communities. This is a concept that applies exclusively to the principle of solidarity, since it does not take into account the costs of the services I have cited or the wealth situation of each community. In addition, today, we support the fight against depopulation, which would serve to deepen the differences between large cities and areas densely populated with rural centres and what we call emptied Spain. He concluded, the euro per capita indicator is totally unfair and we should not always keep it in our heads and repeat it continuously. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-13-CD210413.u109	Thank you very much, Mr. Mazón. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Muñoz Vidal has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-13-CD210413.u110	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Baldoví, as it could not be otherwise, my group agrees with the urgent need to reform the autonomous financing system, a system dating from 2009 and which was to be revised almost seven years ago in 2014. Let us remember that that time, 2014, were times of the absolute majority of the People's Party and what did the People's Party do? Nothing; a further demonstration that you, ladies and gentlemen of the PP, but also ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE, are asking from the opposition what you are incapable of doing when you are in the government, because now you rule Mr Sánchez in coalition with the support of some of your ladies and gentlemen - of you, Mr Baldoví - and you see that you do not seem to have too much interest in this issue either. I'm getting to the point. In Spain, we need fair autonomous funding to ensure that services are provided under the same conditions to all Spaniards, regardless of their place of residence. I guess at this point no one is surprised that Citizens demand and defend equality among the Spaniards. The reform of the autonomous financing system must establish a new framework that is more transparent, more balanced, ensuring that all the autonomous communities exercise their financial autonomy in the calculation of their income and expenditure, and I say all, Mr Baldoví, not only those that you are interested in mentioning or obviating in your speech, as always happens to you in the case of Madrid. I'll get back to it. The current funding system suffers from serious judgements, as recognized by the expert committees, both the one appointed by the Valencian Courts and the one promoted by the central Government; reports from experts who say that the current system of autonomous financing allocates insufficient resources to the autonomous communities to cover expenses, which allows grievances against the outlying communities, that the communities lack the appropriate fiscal policy instruments to address their financial problems or that it is a system in which cooperation and institutional loyalty are lacking. Mr Baldoví, I am focusing on the financial situation of our community, of the Valencian Community. I agree with you in your diagnosis, in financial data. Despite having lower social spending than the rest of the autonomous communities, it has a deficit and greater indebtedness, as is its dependence on financial support funds. Undoubtedly, these extraordinary mechanisms, the Autonomous Liquidity Fund, the Supplier Payment Fund, etc., have meant great relief to the community, but the need to come to them on a recurring basis has greatly increased our debt level. And as long as the causes of this result do not end, the Valencians will not be able to enjoy the same essential opportunities and public services as the rest of the Spaniards. In Citizens we support - and that is the justification for the compromise amendment that we have tabled and that we hope the rest of the parliamentary groups will accept - the recognition of the financing deficits accumulated by the malfunctioning of the different financing systems and we also support the establishment of compensation mechanisms so that the new model is not born lashed by the deferred injustice of the previous ones. It's over now. Mr Baldoví, you supported this government in exchange for a reform of autonomous financing. Mr Sánchez spoke in his first investiture debate of eight months to start this reform, and here we are today talking about this; in November last year Minister Montero assured that the work for the reform will begin in February 2021, and here we are, and last month Minister Montero herself once again promised her partner in the Valencian government, Mr Ximo Puig, that she would start autonomous financing in the coming months: another kick forward. You've been denied three times, Mr. Baldoví. Let us each assume our responsibility, demand what is right, but let us not fall the Valencians - and I say this to you in particular - into populism to ask for debt relief or repeat the mantra of separatism that Spain steals from us. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-13-CD210413.u111	Thank you very much, Mrs. Muñoz. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Guijarro García has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-13-CD210413.u112	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. President, today we are debating the second motion tabled in less than two months on the reform of the autonomous financing system. If you remember, at the end of February it was the People's Parliamentary Group that transferred the relevant debate to this House, in which it urged the Government, among other measures, to condone autonomous debt, as you said now, Mrs Muñoz. Of course, they never used such a direct formula. They never talked about forgiveness at the time. Rather, they meant that - I quote literally - the autonomous communities do not have to pay the negative balance to the central government. I mean, forgive. Anyway, judge yourselves, but even if the monkey gets dressed in silk, the monkey stays. All this after having parked sine die the necessary reform of the system that had to have been committed there for 2014, that is, during Mr Rajoy's first government. In any case, both two months ago and today, it reminds us that the problem of autonomous financing remains unresolved and the debts of some autonomous groups, such as the Valencià Country, continue to accumulate or, in any case, remain far from a definitive solution. All this in a context in which the social challenges that must be addressed have only multiplied with the outbreak of the pandemic and will still require more time and enormous resources for their attention. I am sure that all of us would have preferred to undertake the reform of the system without these urgent conditions. It would certainly be more beneficial to debate in an elusive climate and of some institutional normality, but, ladies and gentlemen, it is up to us to live the times that touch us and that debate will necessarily have to occur now in the midst of a pandemic storm. From our political space, and in contrast to the economic orthodoxy that has prevailed until recently, we have always defended the need to establish an income floor for the autonomous communities; a floor specifically aimed at ensuring a minimum quality in the provision of public services and, in general, the social state that they support. This not only requires autonomy and differentiated tax tools for communities, but also the need to change tax culture throughout Spain, i.e. to undertake an ambitious tax reform, in line with our main European neighbours, which will allow us together to raise the welfare levels of the entire population. Welcome, therefore, to the recently announced expert committee by the Government to address this critical issue in the coming months. But, returning to the autonomic question, its funding will necessarily have to respect the different statutes of autonomy, as well as address other factors that mark and define many of our territories. How to renounce the insularity of the Balearic Islands or the Canary Islands? How not to recognize population dispersion in vast areas of Castiles, Galicia, Aragon or Extremadura? We cannot, however, obviate the population factor either or we would fall back into one of the major mistakes that the current system has missed. Because, of course, ladies and gentlemen, in the Valencià Country the feeling has spread - and I say it to you with all honesty - that in recent years we have served as a lace factor, a sort of variable adjustable to the rest of realities, and this makes the cry for reform of the system absolutely unanimous in our country. Then, each political space distils and transforms that position into a partisan pronunciation with its nuances, but believe me that there is no more urgent people in Spain of this reform than the Valencian people, and the manifestations themselves in the unity of the Government of Botànic so testify. That is why, and as we close and implement a new funding model, we will have to take care of the original hiatus that we are already suffering from right now. However, it would be unfair not to recognize what is already being addressed. It would not be fair to ignore the efforts already being made to inject funding into the autonomous system. I am no longer talking about the EUR 16 billion of extraordinary non-reimbursable funds that the Government has allocated to the Autonomous Communities. I am not referring to the maintenance of the deliveries on account, despite the obvious fall of the collection, as Mr Baldoví recalled. Finally, it is not only a question of highlighting the record figure of EUR 146 billion that the autonomous communities will receive in 2021 in terms of financing, and largely thanks to European funds. We are also talking about the suspension of fiscal rules adopted in October last year, an oxygen balloon that is now fundamental to autonomy. We are talking about the General Budgets of the State and about 25 billion in investment committed for next year. Can you do more in this direction? Indeed, I am confident that the Government will continue to tackle other additional measures involving autonomous resources without resorting to that already oversized debt in our case. For all these reasons, both my parliamentary group and the Socialist Group have tabled this amendment, which Mr Baldoví has commented, with the aim of reaching an agreement with Compromís and thus re-editing in Madrid the understanding that already exists on this matter between the three political forces in the Valencian Community. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-13-CD210413.u113	Thank you very much, Mr. Guijarro. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Betoret Coll has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-13-CD210413.u114	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, President. We are here this afternoon to represent a deception, a deception that begins with the imposition in 2009 by the socialist government of a model of autonomous financing that, far from reducing inequalities, enshrines them. To that model of the Socialists of 2009 the People's Party voted no, and said the consequences it would bring. The result a few years later is more than obvious. Arrived here, we wonder: why are we here this afternoon talking about this? [[The lady]] The answer is clear: because the authors of the aggravation continue to maintain the same and because Mr Baldoví wants to stage an alleged anger that no one believes anymore. And nobody believes that because in January 2020, day 2, specifically, Mr Baldoví was photographing himself with Mr Ábalos to announce that a new funding model would be presented in eight months. Days later, Mr Baldoví voted, with the enthusiasm of the one who believes he has signed a great agreement, the investiture of Mr Sánchez. Weeks after this, the agreement remained on wet paper with the statements of the Minister of Finance when he assured the media that in autumn - I open quotes - 'I would have the basic skeleton of the financing system' - I close quotes -. After just over a year, we haven't even seen the shadow of that skeleton. A month ago, the Republican Group in this House presented a proposal calling for a new funding system, stepping on the matter to Mr Baldoví, with whom he has tried to make a flag for a long time. Mr Baldoví, Compromís has the key to unlocking the change in the financing system, and you have it because you are partners of the Socialist Party in the Valencian Community. If you have an interest in resolving this issue and that interest is sincere, that I do not doubt it, and not a pose, put a deadline on that reform. And if the Socialist Party once again deceives them, break the government pact they have in the Valencian Community with them. [[Applauds]] I'm telling you, you're not going to do it, because you're the accomplices necessary for deception. As in the trile game, one is the one who moves the ball under the cubes and the other is the one who cheats, making it look like it's a safe bet. The latter is the role of Compromís, the protagonist in this deception, in showing that the agreement and the coalition with the Socialist Party is a sure bet. But, ladies and gentlemen, the reality is another, because the fact is that they have been organizing the trile for over a year now, and this is another lie to add to the endless list of the socialist government. Mr. Baldoví, I invite you to reflect on that phrase of the philosopher Anaxágoras: if you deceive me once, it is your fault; if you deceive me two, it is mine. If the accounts don't fail me, at least you've been fooled twice. That's where I leave it. By the way, has anyone heard Ximo Puig raise his voice? It's quiet and formal. Away are the times when he organized demonstrations against the Government for the same reason. Ladies and gentlemen, we have tabled an amendment calling for this new model of autonomous financing, but also for local funding, because local authorities have been the great ones abandoned by this government, especially in pandemic times; a model that respects the principles of autonomy, sufficiency and solidarity; a fiscal autonomy without interference from the government in autonomous taxation. By the way, we welcome Mr Gabilondo's assumption of President Díaz Ayuso's idea and believe that no tax should be levied and that there must be fiscal stability. We call for transitional funding to help resolve the gap of more than EUR 6 billion that the Government is going to generate in the autonomous communities, as a result of the false forecasts in the budgeted collection. This is something that the mayors suffered - you and I were at that time - when for the same reason and also a socialist government forced the municipalities to have to return money to the state. In that connection, and in order to assist the local authorities - and of course the Valencians - temporarily, we call on them to take part in the direct management of 14.56% of the European Union's reconstruction funds. In short, Mr Baldoví, the key to the financing lock is Compromis. You are the ones who have to choose whether you continue to participate, as partners, in the deception that Mr Sánchez and Mr Puig have organized or whether, on the contrary, you want to be partners of the Valencians. Yours is the choice, but know that the Valencian people can no longer wait. Thank you very much. [[Applauds.-A honourable Member: Very well.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-13-CD210413.u115	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, Mrs Vilches Ruiz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-13-CD210413.u116	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Baldoví, we are again debating the need to tackle the reform of the autonomous financing system and, from the Socialist Group, we are proposing an amendment, together with Unite Podemos, because our group and this Government have two clear and precise objectives in terms of autonomous financing. [[The lady]] First, to ensure sufficient funding for the autonomous communities to provide essential public services for all citizens to live where they live, to access these public services on an equal footing, as I say, as a goal, to be especially alive in the context of the pandemic, and to review the model of autonomous financing so that the financial sufficiency of the autonomous communities is guaranteed in a structural way. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to hear some of your speeches - the past, the present, and trying to influence the future modestly - without bringing ghosts to Charles Dickens, and using an effective but simple method of work management, known as the Eisenhower Quadrant, to distinguish between two fundamental premises, attention to the urgent and the important. Mr Baldoví, what is important for the Valencian Community and for the rest of the autonomous communities? What has been the urgency this year? Because, judging by this debate, outsiders of reality obviate the pandemic, obviate urgency, nor mention it, and seem to seek more political confrontation than the interest of all autonomous communities. For the Ministry of Finance, the urgent task in the midst of the pandemic has been to make it easier for the autonomous communities to avoid financial tensions and to have the capacity to continue providing essential public services. And the important thing - as the minister has said by active and passive - has been her commitment to revise the model of autonomous financing, because, truly, any model of financing must adapt to the needs and circumstances of the moment. That is why it must be reviewed, as I say, and that is the commitment of this Government, a revision which on the other hand must have been addressed by the People's Party when it ruled by an absolute majority after the financial crisis, when it also played, instead of loans with draconian interests. Mr Baldoví, if we agree to review the funding model, if we agree that the objective of the change of model is to ensure sufficient funding to avoid financial tensions and that the autonomous communities can provide services on equal terms, what is really their objective? I really do not understand it, because the commitment and purpose of your proposal coincide with those of the ministry and, de facto, are becoming effective. In the midst of the global pandemic that you all have obviated, which has literally swept the whole world, the communities of this country are receiving the greatest resources in their history; Mr Guijarro also mentioned it. They received a record 7.3% more than in 2019 from the funding system, the COVID Fund was approved, EUR 16 billion non-refundable, and we do not lend, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party. This is the largest transfer the State has ever made to the autonomous communities outside its financing system - by the way, to the Valencian Community, EUR 1486 million - the extraordinary financing mechanisms, the suspension of tax rules, the new fund of EUR 11 billion, the Next Generation funds. Thus, the differences between one Government and the other, the model of respect for the model of taxation, the model of the COVID fund against the model of debt and interest, and the model of governance against unilaterality, are more than obvious. [[applause]] And it is that in the Eisenhower quadrant the right have been positioned in the quadrants known as time thieves with activities that do not contribute to solving neither emergencies nor important issues, but that is the modus operandi of the right, in the purest neoliberal style, the old and traditional laissez faire, laissez passer that apply to everything, to territorial politics, to the economic, to the social and with which when they rule they let go and stop doing. Because neither the modification of autonomous financing nor the extra resources to the autonomous communities, except loans, that is, the result of which is what we already know, territorial tensions and indebtedness. Madam President, you have concluded. Mr Baldoví, let's fight this pandemic together, let's close the quadrant of the urgent without losing sight of the important thing because, in the words of the Duke of Albany in King Lear of Shakespeare: Agitating to achieve the best, we often mold the good. Thank you, President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-13-CD210413.u117	Thank you very much. Mr Gil Lázaro has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group in the position-setting round. [[Applauds.-Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-13-CD210413.u118	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Baldoví is asking us a trapping question about his purpose for a very clear reason. He said that it was a consequence of the under-financing suffered by the Valencian Community, holding the Government responsible for it, and it was obvious that this responsibility is shared by Mr Baldoví and his party insofar as they are part of the Government of the Valencian Generalitat, and since Mr Sánchez acceded to the Presidency of the Government by motion of censure, the banners, slogans, pamphlets, all that was characterized for a while ago. But it is also a trap in its purpose, because it was not intended by Mr Baldoví to help solve the financing problem facing the Valencian Community. The question was raised just a few days after the Minister for Finance again told President Sánchez, and he gave the head, that the problem of solving the poor financing of the Valencian Community ad graecas, we would see. But, above all, that questioning raised her hours later to see if the Valencians were getting itchy and diverting the attention of the matter, hours after the monumental scandal affecting Mr. Baldoví's political leader and his party as a result of the court ruling condemning Mrs. Oltra's ex-husband today - husband at the time of the events - to five years' imprisonment for sexual abuse of a minor in a centre dependent on the counselling that Mrs. Oltra held. [[Mr. Baldo Via Roda: Madam President, it's happening]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-13-CD210413.u119	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-13-CD210413.u120	The judgment itself, moreover, calls into question the political behaviour of that council, led by Mrs Oltra, in such a way that if she had a minimum democratic decency, Mrs Oltra would probably have had to resign by now. [[Applauds]] It is a trapping purpose that is written in an attempt to put a horn on the parties that rule with Mr Baldoví in the Valencian Generalitat - the Socialist Party and Podemos - that have already been very long months of struggle and internal brawl. Of course, it also uses a trapping argument because it says that Valencian underfunding prevents the payment of essential public services. Of course, what it does not say - and that is why it is cheating - is that this Government of the Generalitat seems much more interested in taking on other payments. For example, almost 100 million a year on a public television that sees no one and is nothing more than a resonance box of the independence and Catalanist sails of Compromís. [[Applauds]] For example, in the last year of the pandemic, EUR 1 600 000 was handed over to Catalanist entities which do not represent anyone in Valencian society, but which are the echo of this Catalan trial to which Mr Baldoví and his party are so fond. For example, almost EUR 5 million a year - almost EUR 5 million a year - in advisers, which means EUR 20 million at the end of the legislature. Nor did Mr Baldoví say that since they ruled in the Valencian Generalitat they have fired 700 million more expenditure from the unproductive public sector, with an increase of 40% exclusively in personnel costs. And what it also did not count is that since they ruled in the Valencian Generalitat they have increased by 11 billion euros the debt of the Generalitat, reaching already almost to exceed 50 billion euros. And that's how it goes on and on. Therefore, this parliamentary group is not going to join this ceremony of deception and confusion, again, in Valencian society. We say no to Mr Baldoví's motion and any transactional rinsing that can be done, because he does not respect the truth, because he does not seek the truth, because he seeks exclusively to deceive the Valencians. There is no more solution to the problem of territorial financing and to the problem of low Valencian financing than to retire democratically in the ballot boxes Mr Sánchez, and of course the tripartite governing the Valencian Generalitat. That's the reality. We will do that soon, very soon, because there are more and more millions of Spaniards and more and more Valencians who trust our proposals, tired of so much hair-grabbing, Mr Baldoví, so much Catalanism, so much separatism. [[Prolonged applause by the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, on the ground]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-13-CD210413.u121	Thank you very much. I ask Mr Baldoví Roda whether he accepts any of the amendments tabled.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-13-CD210413.u122	We're negotiating, and I suppose, despite some gentlemen passing by, we'll come to an agreement. [[Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-13-CD210413.u123	Quiet, please. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] - the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress, on the reasons the Government has to amend THE LABORAL REFORM. [[File number 173/000064]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-13-CD210413.u124	We then proceed to discuss the motion resulting from an urgent inquiry by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress on the Government's reasons for changing labour reform. Mr Movellán Lombilla has the floor for the initiative and for the defence of the motion.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-13-CD210413.u125	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Minister for Economic Affairs assured us this Friday that the transparency of the government should reassure the Spaniards about labour market reform, and I am afraid that this government has long lost its capacity to reassure anyone, but neither here nor in this country nor in the rest of Europe. No wonder, because the few support measures that Pedro Sánchez's government has offered to workers and companies that have actually worked are underway because it did not give you time to eliminate them before the pandemic. History repeats itself, we always inherit from you deficits, unemployment, debts and even traps in public accounts. You inherit from the governments of the People's Party economic growth, job creation, a country that is moving forward and leading Europe and also inherit figures such as the ERTE, who are allowing social peace in Spain and who have proved to be the only effective measure by this government to fight the pandemic. We are here today because they feel the need to repeal labour reform, as they feel the need to reform a democracy that seems incomplete to them and a Constitution that one day seems to them a Francoist heritage and the next seems like a text that has to accompany them in their pocket even in the debates on television. Because you're very capable of acting by impulses, and that's how it goes. The Spanish do not reassure us of anything that the same government that cuts off the freedom of parents to educate their children, that the same government that registers the okupas in other homes or that sits their own in the prosecutor's office as in a courtship and that in a year has been unable to offer the Spaniards a law that articulates the end of the state of alarm, now wants to repeal the legislation that guarantees companies flexibility at a time when they not only need it to grow, but they need it to survive. The Spaniards are not at ease because everything you touch makes it a problem. They have made it difficult to operate a basic service such as SEPE until it becomes useless. Only 2% of workers in this country are now employed through this service. From the management of ERTE benefits can give proof the hundreds of thousands of workers who have been paid late, badly or even have been uncollected for months. Of the deadlines for applying for these benefits, what we know is that even appointments have been managed in the resale and of the other functions of SEPE already know more about hackers than the minister. The question we all ask ourselves is what is happening in SEPE, is there no one at the head of this body so fundamental to employment in Spain? For we already know what the Director General of SEPE is doing, he is not serving the interests of Spanish workers, no; he is campaigning in Madrid via Twitter. [[Showing a writing]] And it does so without modesty because reading the director general of SEPE talk about cheating, mismanagement and inoperation in management is something like a Berlanga movie. I say to you, ladies and gentlemen of the left, do yourself and do the Director-General of SEPE a favour and tell him not to do the ridiculous, to work and to straighten the way of SEPE, not to worry about Madrid and the Madridns, who have done very well in these twenty-six years of governments of the People's Party and who, from 4 May, will continue to do just as well with Isabel Díaz Ayuso as President of Madrid. Last week in the interpellation to the minister we were made clear that the only thing this government has done for the employability of the Spaniards is to apply the figure of the ERTE, which came from that reform of the People's Party that you so detested. One month remains before the end of the ERTE and self-employed benefits, 780,000 workers and 440,000 self-employed are waiting to see this new picture of the Ministers' agreement with the social partners again. You have really become a real problem for the more than 6 million Spaniards who want to work and can't. They have become the main problem for Spanish young people, with an unemployment rate of 40%, and they are also the problem for women, since we were the country in Europe in 2020 that destroyed the most female employment. For the only ones for whom you are not a problem is for the more than 100,000 companies that closed this year. For these entrepreneurs for their workers are not a problem, you are a disgrace. Ladies and gentlemen, in this context, you are coming and you want to repeal a 2012 text that stopped the bleeding of jobs that you have done yourself, and you want to do so because it bears the signature of the People's Party and because it worked well, because it includes measures that made Spain stop contributing six out of ten of the unemployed that were generated in Europe, because that reform of the labour market and the flexibility that guarantees it is what Spain needed then and needs now to deal with the current crisis, and it is not an opinion, it is verified data. It does not matter what the People's Party or the Socialist Party says; what matters is what those who create jobs in our country say, what employers say, who are afraid that you will be able to stand up to them for a new reform, or what the self-employed say, who are already shaking because there are thousands who are waiting for aid that does not arrive. But what you do see is that your intention is for a raise in contributions to arrive first. One cannot govern a country and pretend to have nothing to do with the economic situation. Spain is going to be the country with the highest unemployment rate in Europe this year and one of the highest unemployment rates in the world; only Armenia, Sudan or that paradise on earth that they want to take us to is called Venezuela. I am not telling you, the International Monetary Fund is telling you this through the world's economic prospects. They are told that they will fail to fulfil their promise to create 800,000 jobs by the year 2023. They tell them that we will not regain the pre-pandemic level of employment until 2026. You think that you have no responsibility for this data because you are committed to erasing to rewrite; you want to erase those measures that have resulted in 1400 jobs being created in Spain a day and the number of households with all their unemployed members being reduced by more than 600 000. Some measures were necessary because another socialist government had put more than 3.5 million people on the job. There is no worse time or less appropriate time to take forward the flexibility and negotiating capacity of companies, which create jobs, not governments, and certainly not socialist governments. That is why we tell them in the motion to put in place a series of measures, and if they don't agree, let's face it, because the 2012 reform worked. It is not the time to repeal, it is the time to strengthen it. Finished. Let us not go back to those labour policies that have already failed in the past; on the contrary, look at the models that have worked, because the model exists; it is a model of proven success; Spain has already succeeded before, and the Populars we continue here to teach you, to help the Spaniards to get the country out of this crisis as well. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-13-CD210413.u126	Thank you very much, Mr. Movellán. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much. As no amendments have been tabled to this initiative, we move on to position-setting. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, first of all, Mr Martínez Oblanca.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-13-CD210413.u127	Thank you very much, Madam President. I will begin by recalling that in 2012 Forum votes were used to approve the labor reform with which Spain successfully committed the national disaster to which Mr Rodríguez Zapatero's presidential management had dragged us. A few months earlier, I voted against Article 135 of the Constitution, which had been changed over and over again as a consequence of that sluggish socialist economic stage, which was held over by the Spaniards, who were impoverished and who destroyed more than 3 million jobs. Now, also with another socialist president at the head of the government, our country is again suffering from job insecurity, exacerbated in this case by the coronavirus pandemic, but partially relieved precisely, as Mr Movellán said, by the existence of those legislative labour measures of 2012, which have now allowed emergency agreements to be adopted with the business sectors and workers' representatives. Ladies and gentlemen, at present the greatest risk for Spain and its turbulent productive fabric is that our Government is presenting to Europe an insolvent plan that does not meet the priority objectives of accessing the Community funds with which to advance in the transformation of our economy. We are obliged primarily to make changes to ensure the sustainability of the pension system, a pretext for Minister Escrivá's skirmishes, and to make changes in labour reform. Hence the need for this motion by the Group of the European People's Party to renew the derogations of the Government and its partners, with greater reason if we are the country of the European Union with the highest unemployment figures - those of youth unemployment go far beyond the catastrophic - and to undertake a modernization of our labour legislation in line with that of other countries similar to Spain in which employment is created. The opposite is to return to the worst past and a return to those calamitous and senseless walks of the stage of Mr Rodríguez Zapatero. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-13-CD210413.u128	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr García Adanero has the floor for the same group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-13-CD210413.u129	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the truth is that the repeal of labour reform I believe was the first big lie. It was in 2018, when President Sánchez said that: 'The first step I will take is to repeal labour reform'. We are in 2021 and between media there have been two electoral processes. In all the campaigns it was said: 'The first step I will take is to repeal labour reform'. And then the deal comes with Podemos, they hug each other and say, 'And the first thing we're going to do is repeal the labor reform.' And then comes the state of alarm and signs with Bildu and Esquerra: 'What are we going to do? Derogation of labour reform'. So, if they have vows and will, why don't they repeal labour reform? Because they know that it would be barbaric, that unemployment would be triggered and that the only way to create some job, which they are incapable of creating, is because this labour reform is still in force, because, if not, the unemployment figures would be even more triggered than they are. And what about the parties that have supported that? They are more comfortable with labor reform, because they have chosen other things. Some have said, 'Let's leave the principles behind, but let's keep the posts; that's where it is said and from time to time we take it out'. Others say, 'If you whiten us, the reform goes on.' The others say: 'If we continue with the process, the reform there can stay'. And that's what's happening now. And while, with 4, 5 or 6 million unemployed, we have the Minister of Labour, instead of busy creating jobs, teaching that communism is freedom and is democracy, said by the Minister of Labour. Hey, don't you have anything else to do with that? Communism is communism, freedom, democracy is democracy, and communism is quite the opposite of freedom and democracy. Therefore, minister, get to work and create jobs, which is what is needed. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-13-CD210413.u130	Thank you very much, Mr García Adanero. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Matute García de Jalón has the floor for the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-13-CD210413.u131	Thank you, Madam President. Mr García Adanero, the debate on what communism is and what I do not think we had two weeks ago. The opposite of communism is fascism and, unfortunately, it is increasingly present in the Spanish State. By focusing already on the debate, I will go back to the method I have used on other occasions for the recurring initiatives of the People's Party on labour reform. I am going to stick to the text more than I am going to stick to the speech itself. I guess the text is worked, it's adorned with data and it's more effective for the debate. And the first thing to say when you see this initiative is that it is more of a discharge sheet or some sort of defensive cutting initiative, because, if you look at the explanatory statement and prolific it in the data shown, what you see is a line of defense of labor reform, of the management of Mariano Rajoy during his term of office or his years of government. They start with an axiom, which for you is the overall framework of the whole initiative, which is that the general reform works and creates jobs, but they don't think what kind of jobs, they don't think why precariousness hasn't decreased, they don't think why where there was a fixed job before there can now be five discontinuous jobs. You tell us that the labour market is rigid, but it has never been less rigid than it is now thanks to something that you use at the end of the initiative, which is flexibility. It has never been more flexible, it has never been easier for entrepreneurs to fire in the way they want because never before had they been allowed in the Spanish state - and that is a historic setback that you have brought into effect - that there would be no labor authority to determine whether or not that dismissal is objective, whether that dismissal or that ERE is reasonable or not, because they are grabbing temporary causes to take structural measures. And that is the sad reality that the workers in Euskal Herria and the Spanish State endure. But, as I say, in their explanatory statement they talk about the difficulty or serious risk they had when they acceded to the Government to maintain the welfare state. Mr Movellán, maintaining the welfare state is not cutting it, maintaining the welfare state is betting on expanding it, maintaining the care policy, maintaining decent and decent jobs, and what is not maintaining the welfare state is cutting and impoverishing the working class. We are told that they took some ungrateful measures: then, it seems that for pleasure they did not. Therefore, I do not understand why you propose that labour reform is so good if you yourselves in your text recognize that it was an ungrateful and to some extent unpopular measure that had to be taken. But then you make a review of what the implementation of labour reform has entailed, and I think it is an unfinished or partial review and therefore not valid. They plan that 500,000 jobs were created a year during the last five years of office, 1400 jobs a day, or day, could say, because the reality is that the labour market did only create more short jobs where there was a long job before, and also with worse working conditions and worse wage conditions. They say that all the women's jobs destroyed by the crisis were recovered: tell women, but tell them honestly, tell them that they had not been allocated to low-paid care and jobs; say that this was the way in which they understood that women could enter the labour market, in low-skilled jobs and in the hard work of the labour market, because that was what was done. But they say more, they say 265,000 self-employed opened up new businesses. Who were among them, all the riders, all the bogus self-employed, because they had to stay as bogus self-employed to bear part of their salary so that the entrepreneur won't pay it? They were probably there. And they say more, they say that 2,765,000 Spaniards found a job, including 1.3 million women and more than 230 000 young people. It is precisely today that a newspaper that does not empathize much with us and with us, with the people of the Basque sovereign left, says that in 1980 the young people of that time paid 50% more than the young people of today. The young people of today are subject to the labour reform that you are pursuing with the sole agreement of the employer, without social dialogue and without agreement with the trade unions. That's the picture, and it's a little bloody that young people have to say these things, like they've created jobs for them, when what we see here - and I point out to you, says a newspaper closer to you than to any other political force - is that purchasing capacity has been reduced by 50% since 1980 for young people up to now. And we are also told that the number of households with all the active unemployed members has been reduced by 615 000, and yet they do not explain why, if everyone is working, they have to make it compatible with social assistance, because employment does not reach them. That is the sad reality we live in. I'll explain it to you in a very graphic way because I have little time left. It is about working to live, not living to work; it is about having decent jobs that allow people to have decent lives. I have explained it to him on more than one occasion and little case has done to me, surely because he does not pay too much attention to my words, and he cannot be blamed. Perhaps with a graphic gesture he understands it better, because if someone didn't make ERE a tool to fire workers, they would have to be working, not defending employment, as Tubacex workers are doing every day. [[Shows a flag that reads: Tubacex salba dezagun]] All the workers defending their jobs so that they can have decent work, so that everyone can have a future...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-13-CD210413.u132	Mr. Matute,...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-13-CD210413.u133	... so that they may have a future worthy of them and their sons and daughters. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-13-CD210413.u134	Mr Matute, no teaching of any kind is shown in this Chamber, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Thank you so much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much. For the Basque Group, Mr Barandiaran Benito has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-13-CD210413.u135	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, it is time to eliminate the noise of debates where too many things are at stake and attitudes are a good part of the solution or of the problem. The PP presents us today with a motion that, said with all due respect, sounds like sterile, old and repeated polemics, although it is also the announcement of the repeal of labour reform. The motion tells us that when they arrived in the Government in 2011 they encountered a global economic crisis, a rigid labour market and a huge number of unemployed increased by 3.5 million people and the obligation to make an extraordinary effort to overcome undesirable consequences. It may not be entirely uncertain, but it is also not difficult to guess that as a response from the parties supporting the government they will answer that in the midst of that crisis the PP government placed the burden of the measures on the workers' efforts. At that time, and in this country, the world's largest economic crisis in decades, to which was added in Spain the specific of brick, and not only of subprime, which was then the product of an insane and uncontrolled housing market. But it is also true that an unprecedented economic restraint effort was made, even if measures were taken, especially in the workplace, which we also believe were unfortunate: it was de-causalized by dismissal, it was overthrown, it promoted precarious and temporary recruitment formulas and, finally, it provided the framework for employment relations with safety margins, which meant chronising a precarious labour market and unemployment. Translated into Paladin Roman, the effort was made to overcome that crisis on the backs of those who have less economic capacity, the workers, especially when it is added that it was done in a unilateral way and outside the political and social dialogue. [[The lady]] However, the motion has a virtue, which is to advance the pending debate on the legal framework for work. The future of employment goes - I do not say so, experts say - by adapting its legal framework to an increasingly changing and global reality: either we are able to promote a competitive labour market or globalisation will place us in an area of irrelevantness that will lead to jobs without added value and, therefore, to a subsistence economy, and I doubt that this is our purpose. But, in turn, this adaptation requires two conditions: one, social peace, and the other, legal security, understood as the first as the approximation of interests and decisions of the representation of those who are part of the labour relationship, and the second with the concreteness and nuances that the legislator must always be able to carry out, but that, yes, none will have a future if he risks being devoured by a change of government. The polarisation suffered by politics is now one of the greatest risk factors for the labour market, added to those already existing, and it is therefore even more absurd to draw a scenario where, having seen the capacity to agree within the framework of social dialogue, it is the political class that projects the highest doses of insecurity, and yet that is what is happening. Something we'll be doing wrong and something we'll have to do in that particular. The motion says in this respect that we must give stability to the labour market, and we agree, but we must commit ourselves to it, not just to say it. It also says that we need to clarify the causes why Spain has worse employment data than Europe, and we also agree, although we cannot forget that we are starting from worse base and worse conditions than correcting and, therefore, from more and more expensive solutions. With regard to the extension of ERTs, of course, we agree, but we would say that they must be made indefinite; they have been shown to be effective for the maintenance of employment. With regard to the measures to speed up SEPE, I would say that making it work at once, for which we should transfer it to the autonomous communities, which manage this problem better and more closely, and with added precision: we must not forget that their workers have been decisive in coping with the avalanche of ERTE and have thus become also other genuine heroes of this pandemic. Finally, directed at all, flee from the temptation to think that only we, you or they have the solution. The best reform of the reform will be able to reach agreements in areas such as the importance of the legal framework for work, measures to maintain employment and alleviate unemployment, the protection of the unemployed and the promotion of economic activity, and, at the end of the day, to put aside the elections, even those in Madrid, in order to put the face and eyes of the subjects of the problems and devote something as difficult as an agreement to them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-13-CD210413.u136	Thank you very much, Mr. Barandiaran. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Muñoz Vidal has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-13-CD210413.u137	Thank you again, President, and good night now, ladies and gentlemen. The previous speaker has already said this: Let us take this issue seriously, we need to take this issue seriously. There is no need to repeal labour reform, but we cannot settle for what we have, Mr Movellán. The initiative presented to us by your parliamentary group, the People's Parliamentary Group, is very diffuse, there really is no place to take it. Seeing the role they have recorded, I think that less evil than Citizens had the competences of economy and employment in the Autonomous Community of Madrid. They will never hear anyone from Citizens say that the 2012 labor reform was bad for the Spanish, but it was unambitious, that it did not know how to tackle the structural problems of our labour market and that today it is insufficient to deal with the crisis caused by the pandemic. You ask in your motion that the Government determine the causes for which Spain leads the destruction of employment in the European Union. I say to him, 'Cause we haven't done our homework on the labour market. Firstly, we find that the difference between the cost relative to temporary employment and the indefinite gives rise to a productive structure in which the temporary contract predominates, harming companies that need more human, physical and technological capital, that is, the current labour market harms those companies that generate stable employment and skilled workers. This makes it possible for us to have a productive fabric with smaller and medium-sized enterprises and for our companies to be less innovative than European ones or to endure, but rather as a result of crises. It is not that companies do not want to grow, innovate or be more financially sustainable, it is that the existing regulation does not make it easy. On the other hand, more and more Spaniards have to face a system that protects those who are already working, the so-called insiders of the labour market, with indefinite contracts, which are somewhat old, compared to the so-called outsiders of the labour market, which are young people, the unemployed, part-time workers or those who are subject to a high temporality in their work. This, ladies and gentlemen, creates an invisible but insurmountable barrier in many cases that only generates poverty and inequality. That's how our labor market is, that's the diagnosis. We can also talk about the future of the labour market, or rather, if you want, about the present of our labour market and new labour relations, marked above all by the use of new technology, which causes a change in the concept of self-employment itself. Platform workers and multiple applications have associated complications with this type of employment that have shown that a technological change is going to bring about a revolution in our labour market and, irremediably, in our social protection system. And in the face of this reality one can choose to regulate each of the new ways of understanding labour relations, as the coalition government of the PSOE and the United States is doing. We can, or, on the contrary, must rely on a comprehensive and comprehensive solution that houses all new types of work and employment under more flexible labour institutions, without renouncing the protection and safety of workers. However, there are none of these proposals that I have just said to you in your motion, in the role you have recorded. One of the most obvious symptoms that you do not have broad eyes is that you do not name in your motion even once those most affected by our labour market, which are young people, and that they are again one of the most affected groups by this crisis. According to Fedea's analysis, young people, who, in your opinion, were delighted with the 2012 labour reform, came to the pandemic with unemployment rates that doubled the pre-financial crisis records for 2008 and 2013. He got to the ERTE point. You are asking for an extension of this figure until December 2021 and we will be in favour and on the government side to support any extension of the ERTE until the restrictions on mobility and commercial activity are completed. But what we do not understand is that you forget that many of those employees who are now at ERTE will not return to their previous jobs and will have to be recycled or trained, and from that there is nothing again in their registered role with this motion. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen of the PP, we see that they are continuing with the 2012 reform, putting up patches, instead of an ambitious reform of our labour market that adapts to new needs and new labour relations. From Citizens we will continue to work for this much needed reform. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-13-CD210413.u138	Thank you very much, Mrs. Muñoz. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Rego Candaimil has the floor first.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-13-CD210413.u139	Thank you, Madam President. In the title of his motion, he asked the People's Group for the reasons the Government had for changing the labour reform and was certainly doing well because, judging by the fact that it was in force three years after the PP left the Government, it seemed that it was difficult to find them. For the BNG they are very clear and cannot be hidden in any way behind their usual demagogy, because the figures you handle are not those that speak of loss of rights, precarious employment and working conditions, increased inequalities or the pauperization process that led to the existence of labour poverty, and all this because the labor reforms facilitated dismissal, established hiring with abusive probation periods, modified collective bargaining by eliminating ultraactivity in the agreements, prioritized those of companies over those in the sector, centralized the negotiation process, weakened the depression capacity of workers, made it easier for employers to alter working conditions or collective dismissal, etc. The repeal of labour reform and collective bargaining, as well as that of pensions or of the law on gallows, are pending subjects of this Government in order to dismantle the regressive policies implemented by the People's Party, measures, by the way, all of which the BNG incorporated into the investment agreement. That is why not only are we going to support the PP's proposal, but we are taking the opportunity once again to call on the parties that make up the Government to fulfil their commitments and electoral promises and to repeal labour reform once and for all, to recover rights, quality of life and well-being. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-13-CD210413.u140	Thank you very much, Mr. Rego. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the same parliamentary group, Mr Boadella Esteve has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-13-CD210413.u141	Thank you very much, President. Labour reform and the repeal of labour reform is a recurring issue that is usually emerging. As pointed out here, by PSOE and Podemos comes out as an electoral promise and by the PP ends up appearing as an argument to reaffirm what they did in 2012. Our positioning is clear. We say that nine years have passed since the labour reform and that it is certainly time to take stock from the perspective of agreement and social dialogue, and not through the actual Decree-Law, as in its day labour reform was imposed. It was a product of a very concrete time and perhaps it is worth taking stock of what it has been for and why not. There are some aspects that we believe need to be reformed: the ultra-activity of the conventions, the fight against temporality, the question of the contracts, and how to empower them or a bet that we also make, which is the appearance in the labour regulations of the so-called Austrian backpack. We believe that there are measures and issues with which to generate a new labour framework, which will probably also have to take into account the new economy and, therefore, the whole issue of telework that has emerged with the pandemic and which, by the way, is still in normative development in the presentation of the bill, and can certainly integrate what we have been commenting on many times, which is a new statute for work, a new regulation of this whole framework. With regard to the proposal put to us by the People's Parliamentary Group, there are interesting issues that we have raised on other occasions: for example, that the ERTEs last until 31 December - we agree - or that the SEPE strengthens itself in relation to the benefits, the computer attack it suffered and the service of care for the citizen, in which we can also agree. But there are other things that, as I said before, are part of a justification for what the PP did in his day. In the short time I have left I can only tell you that this nantine defense of labor reform may not be necessary. Besides, I don't think they should be too afraid either. If you look, the promise of 'let's repeal labour reform' has ended in 'let's adjust or modify those most damaging aspects of labour reform'. The promise of 'we are going to repeal labour reform' has ended only in that modification of dismissal for objective misconduct, when judgments had already been issued by the Court of Justice of the European Union and, therefore, there were already judgments that support the retouching that was sold as the great modification of labour reform. And if this trajectory is taken into account, the promise of Mr. Pablo Iglesias to remove the pensions from the former ministers can also be added without any problem, because the first thing he has done when he leaves the government has been to ask for the corresponding pension. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we are not going to be able to support the proposal, but we do believe that there is no need to fear that this can happen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-13-CD210413.u142	Thank you, Mr. Boadella. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Mena Arca has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-13-CD210413.u143	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, everyone and everyone. The Spanish saying says that man is the only animal that stumbles twice with the same stone, that is, to err and err is human and we all do it. The problem is that your defense of labor reform, which even you yourselves know was absolutely harmful to Spain, has more ideological blindness than error. What has the reform of the People's Party served the workers of this country, I wonder. Well, look, for three things: first, in 2012 there was a historical record of dismissals from indefinite contracts and almost 800,000 people went to unemployment; second, between 2013 and 2018 the temporality grew 3.6 points, and third, between 2011 and 2017 the wages lost 6.8 points of purchasing power, so that the labor reform has the seal of precariousness and the seal of temporality. His job reform was to destroy jobs, make us poorer and make us more precarious. Its effects are still in force. The other day I was in Lliça d'Amunt, Barcelona, visiting the workers of the Bosch plant, a leader of the automotive industry, because this multinational wants to throw out 336 workers, although that plant still has benefits. This is possible thanks to the labour reform of the People's Party. Therefore, I ask you, instead of coming here to explain the benefits of your labor reform, to go to the Bosch deLliça d'Amunt plant to see if you can explain to those workers what the goodness of your labor reform is. Its reform has condemned the working class to uncertainty, and I give you an example: nine out of ten temporary contracts that are made in Spain thanks to its reform have a duration of less than seven days. Can you imagine the life plan that a person can make or the life plan that a family can make with a contract of less than seven days? You continue with that mantra that the right creates employment and the left destroys it, and the data contradict them. In February 2021, despite the pandemic and the biggest fall in GDP in our history for obvious reasons, there were half a million more members of Social Security than in February 2018, the last February in which you were in government; that is, the first time in history that unemployment has fallen less than GDP. The unemployment rate with his Government reached 26.9%, reaching the scandalous 56.9% of youth unemployment. The only thing you have created has been poverty. In addition, 14.8% of workers, despite having a job, are at risk of poverty, because you have created precariousness. What has this government done? Protect the employment and payroll of workers with ERTEs. Prohibit dismissal caused by COVID. Create an extraordinary allowance for domestic workers. Pushing the Plan Take care of me to prioritize telework. Achieving a social agreement for the Raiders Act, one of the most precarious sectors in this country. Today, EUR 21 billion will enable the autonomous communities to invest in employment policies. And yes, ladies and gentlemen, start repealing labour reform at the most harmful points, as well as creating new legislation in areas such as telework. [[applause]] You have nothing but to come here and talk about what you believe to be your laurels of the past. You are no longer the party of employment or the party of the economy, and you have little left to be the party of the right, because the far right is happening to you. But I have to tell you that, in the meantime, this government will continue to work. Be assured that this Government and Vice-President Yolanda Díaz will continue to dismantle their inheritance, because the neglect of working people has never been a solution to any crisis, and the best example is their management. We will continue to do so, because the repeal of labour reform is part of this government's agreements and will be implemented, because it is a commitment of our vice-president and because the working people of our country deserve it. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-13-CD210413.u144	Thank you very much, Mr. Mena. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Aizcorbe Torra has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-13-CD210413.u145	Madam President, don Diego, we will not vote against it, but this initiative shows how they are caught up in sterile discussions; some in defending their legacy, others in demolishing it. The explanatory statement of the motion before us criticises the 2012 labour reform as a perfect model, but ends up proposing a reform of it to bring about improvements. The world has changed, society has changed, the goal cannot be only to defend labour reform, but the rights of workers, and the first of them is the right to work; it is the right to have work. [[Applauds]] It is not time to debate whether it is Galicians or powerful who threaten our model of coexistence, but rather to go to the root of the problems. For this to happen, we must face important changes, not only in the text of a norm, but in the proper conception of the rules of play of the labor system; we must regain our sovereignty and initiative as a great nation. With the Socialist Party, the European Union's highest unemployment rates are 16%. A job stoppage of 40% of young Spaniards is our particular, useless and proud Vietnam, because as long as the job is lacking and the income of the job has no value as such it cannot prosper. We are engaged in a society that is dead, barren, powerless, spiritless. Factories that close, businesses that do not prosper, jobs lost on many occasions as a result of agendas of an informed globalization at fairs of vanities and elites, such as in Davos, the Forum of Sao Paulo or the Puebla Group, and here, from the government and sometimes from the opposition, they are repeated bending the cervix. It is those victims of our particular Vietnam, our young people and our unemployed, our self-reliant, ruined and dispossessed who suffer from all the filthiness of those powers that encourage economies to the letter, that disturb our lives, that try to mark us their memorandum, that impede our own development, even in the European Union, paralyzed in its own chaos and inoperability, unable to manage even vaccines. The damn virus from China, which will have to be held accountable for its performance, has only triggered the outbreak of something that was to come. Their products invade us in an unfair competition that forces our companies to close. Made in China; made in China. Doesn't it ring a bell? Have we asked you what reform of the Workers' Statute you are defending in China? And we, customers, even friends - such as the friendship agreement of the People's Party and the Chinese Communist Party - and, therefore, accomplices of all the injustices that occur there that affect us here, manufacturing in China. [[Applauds]] We need a radical restructuring, a serious rethinking of our productive model. We're losing our country, our jobs, our way of life. We must reverse this, and for that we must have determination, not put on warm cloths. If we do not allow the system to somehow distribute wealth through decent work, an inexorable catharsis is coming. Immediate measures must be taken, preventing the massive regulation of irregular immigrants, in order to avoid the so-called effect, which mainly harms all legal immigrants, especially our Spanish-American brothers. It is necessary to combat the submerged economy and to determine in a fair manner the number of families at risk of poverty and social exclusion. Fiscal and social security measures are needed to encourage the recruitment of vulnerable persons and persons over the age of 50 and under the age of 25 who are unemployed. It is necessary to expand the flat rate assumptions for self-employed people. It is also a matter of exempting or releasing businesses and self-employed persons from the obligation to enter the invoiced and uncollected VAT. A share of EUR zero is needed if incomes do not reach the interprofessional minimum wage.It is necessary to reverse the low level of training for part of our workforce, because the quality of human capital is essential for the productivity of companies and the attraction of technological investment, generating skilled and stable employment. [[applause]] And we must reduce unnecessary public spending and huge useless public spending. Work, work and work. We don't want a subsidized society. That is why we, VOX, will be with the workers against the waste of this government, also socialist, on the 1st of May in the streets of our nation with the Union Solidarity, for the dignity of the workers and for all the Spaniards, for all the Spanish workers, while others continue to discuss whether they are Galicians or powerful. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-13-CD210413.u146	Thank you, Mr. Aizcorbe. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, Mrs Oria López has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-13-CD210413.u147	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, and without precedent, I must begin by acknowledging your perseverance. You take a path, the path may end, but you continue. They do not miss the opportunity to sell once and a thousand times the supposed goodness of their labor reform that they approved outside of social dialogue and without any political consensus. The objectives of its labour reform can be seen in the document The Spanish Government's reforms, September 2012, and the course of time has made the point that the role endures everything, since the data confirm that its labour reform has been a major failure, constituted a real regression in labour, individual and collective rights; a labour reform that erred both in the procedure, unilaterally adopted outside the social dialogue, and in its content; a reform that fractured the balance of collective bargaining at the expense of favouring the unilateral power of the entrepreneur to change working conditions unilaterally and that has led to the precariousness of employment, the lowering of dismissal and excessive temporary hiring. The reform of the three areas: deregulation, devaluing and unprotecting; or the same thing: cutting workers' rights, reducing wages and reducing benefits in times of great need. You speak in your motion for a policy of banditry, and you are surprised by these statements, for the Government is very clear about its road map, and it is also embodied in a public-knowledge document, such as the Government Agreement signed by the PSOE and United Podemos, which I invite you to read. Its fourth point deals with employment policy and summarises them briefly: its objective is to regain the labour rights that have been stolen by its reform; collective bargaining, to return to social dialogue its role as the cornerstone of employment policy. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, are you calling for a policy of bandits to reach agreements within the framework of social dialogue? You mean this? Do you find it wrong that the different decrees that have been passed and validated in this House have been preceded by the agreement with the social agents of this country? You ask why we are leading the worst employment data in Europe, and uncritically and naively, could it be that I had something to do with the situation inherited by this government through its harmful employment policies and labour reform? [[Applauds]] There are data that are devastating: 166 million contracts registered since 2012, of which 91% are temporary; 42 million contracts do not even reach a minimum duration. Half of the employed in this country have a temporary, precarious, unintended part-time contract, or they rotate between unemployment and precarious work, and you continue to ask about these issues. As for the request for the extension of the ERTE and the cessation of activity until 31 December, this is simple and plainly pure opportunism and demagogy in an electoral campaign context. They know and know, because it has been said as active and passive, that they will remain as long as it is necessary and this situation continues. That is, demagogy and opportunism, as well as evil. You also have an amazing ability to appropriate what does not belong to you. As it is said in my land: mine is mine, and the things of others are mine, too. For the umpteenth time in this rostrum: ERTE, Ley 35/2010, Gobierno del PSOE, with José Luis Rodríguez Zapatero at the head. By the way, a magnificent president. [[Applauds]] The ERTE, without a doubt, have been a determining factor in the maintenance of employment, of businesses and also of our country's economic activity. And more importantly, they have shown that there is a different way to deal with the crisis. For the first time the evolution of employment has been better than that of the gross domestic product, both in the lowest fall and in the highest recovery, which has been complemented by other measures such as the prohibition of dismissal, the extension of social protection to groups that did not have it, the regulation of teleworking and a series of other measures. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, you do not like anything that has been done; you do not like that it has been invested in our productive fabric; you do not like that there is protection for employment; you do not like that for the first time we have protected the autonomous of this country; you do not like social dialogue because you have never practiced it. That's right, they like their job reform, the one that has generated poor, temporary and precarious workers. Gentlemen of the People's Party, take on the results of the elections, the legitimacy of this government and, for once, sum up and do something useful for this country. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-13-CD210413.u148	Thank you very much, Mrs Oria. Ladies and gentlemen, we vote in three minutes. I remind you that you will only be able to vote from the seat that corresponds to you, identified with your name on the screen. I would also remind you that those Members who have been authorized to vote for the telematics procedure cannot do so from their seats. [[Pause]] Ladies and gentlemen, take your seats or leave the Chamber. Let's start the voting.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-13-CD210413.u149	We voted, first of all, on the proposal of the Parliament of the Balearic Islands for the reform of Organic Law 1/2007 of 28 February 2007 on the reform of the autonomous status of the Balearic Islands, for the abolition of the suffocation of Members of the Parliament of the Balearic Islands and Members of the Government of the Balearic Islands. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 109 plus 235 telematics votes, 344; 109 plus 229 telematics votes, 338; abstentions, 6 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-13-CD210413.u150	Consequently, the proposal to reform the autonomous status of the Balearic Islands obtains the House's favourable vote.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-13-CD210413.u151	We shall proceed to vote on the proposal for a law of the Basque Parliament, the creation of a compensation fund for the victims of asbestos. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: 109 plus 240 telematics votes, 349; 109 plus 187 telematics votes, 296; against, 1 telematics vote; abstentions, 52 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-13-CD210413.u152	Accordingly, the proposal for a law is taken into consideration. The meeting was suspended until 9 a.m. tomorrow. Good night. It was eight and fifty-five minutes of the night.
