ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-22-CD211222.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. The meeting was resumed. We continue with the questions addressed to the Government in accordance with the order sent by the Government. Questions to the President of the Government. Question by Mr Pablo Casado Blanco, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-22-CD211222.u2	Merry Christmas, Mr. Sanchez. We do congratulate Christmas, not the winter solstice. I had to ask you today about the balance sheet of the legislature. I think you know him well; so do the Spaniards. I can remind you of your failures: your pacts with Bildu, in exchange for approaching prisoners; with Esquerra Republicana, in exchange for leaving children abandoned, even giving pardons; with those of Podemos, in exchange for whitewashing banana dictatorships and whitewashing attacks on police and attacks on the king. But all of Spain is shocked by the sixth wave of the virus. Millions of Spaniards don't know if we're going to be able to be on Christmas Eve with our parents, if we're going to be able to kiss our grandparents, if we're going to be able to spend the Kings with our children and, unfortunately, although man is the animal that stumbles twice with the same stone, you've been stumbled six times with the same virus. After 120,000 deaths, 150,000 infected health care workers - the highest number in the world -, after you declare the virus defeated twice - before another 50,000 deaths -, after hiding the alerts - as you have acknowledged to your vice president - and blocking the prosecution for investigating that negligence, do you think you can contribute nothing to the solution, which you can bring together the autonomous communities today to use them as human shields when the law clearly says that you are solely responsible for the epidemiological response to pandemics? Look, the consequences are being terrible and we don't understand why we don't accept our extended hand to pass an organic pandemic law, to make the response against the virus more effective and more egalitarian. Call it what you want, take it as your own, it is not a question of the People's Party, the Council of State asks it, the European Union asks it, the doctors ask it, the judges ask it, they ask it to their own autonomy, they have asked it to the former ministers Calvo and Campo! Why don't you do it, Mr. Sanchez? What brings that pride, that irresponsibility? And above all, the economic and social consequences. There are a million families who can't even pay for the shopping basket, who are making starved queues. All Spaniards have a coast of January ahead that doesn't let them even make the shopping basket for Christmas. They don't even know if they're going to be able to pay for the light. Some people are getting cold. We have the deficit fired, the debt fired, the unemployment fired, you are at the head of all the negative indicators at international level. I tell you without paraphrase, so you don't get offended: what else has to happen for you to do something. Stop playing the lottery with the future of the Spaniards. [[Several ladies and gentlemen: Very well!- Prolonged applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-22-CD211222.u3	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-22-CD211222.u4	Thank you very much, Madam President. Your Honor, happy holidays, happy Christmases, also for you and your family. In his interventions, the same always happens. There are two parts: one is the question that you ask, which is usually always the excuse, the pretext, to then use every line of lies, and insidious, insults and improvisations to which you always have us used. [[rumors]] It is true that today it comes calmer. Simply to clarify that doubt you raised: parents will be able to celebrate Christmas with their children; grandparents and grandmothers will be able to celebrate Christmas with their grandchildren and grandchildren and sons and daughters. Don't worry about it, Your Honor. Fortunately, our country, despite its agrarian vaccinities a year ago, when it said that it would take us four years to vaccinate 70% of the population with a full schedule, today we have 90% of the Spanish population vaccinated with a full schedule. [[Applauds]] Always the problem with you is that your interventions are based on lying. He says there's a hit-and-run problem. I remind you, Your Honor, that we have 20 million employees that we have not had since 2007, that is, before the financial crisis. I'm going to give you three data that I think is important for next year and, as other administrations - for example, the American one yesterday - this is not March 2020. First of all, we have 90% of Spanish citizenship vaccinated with a full pattern and we aspire to continue to do so with the pattern of remembrance. Now we are starting precisely with the vaccination of our minors. Secondly, as I said, we have 20 million people employed. Thirdly, ladies and gentlemen - I know this hurts and I do not understand why - we are the first country to receive European funds, fortunately, because of the reformist impetus that the Spanish Government is putting forward. [[Applauds]] In any case, Your Honor, the conclusion is simple. The conclusion is that Spain, faced with the greatest calamity that humanity is suffering in the last hundred years, has resisted, has not surrendered and is making progress. This is the last control session we have before the end of the year and I would like you to reflect and meditate on these days of well-deserved rest, Your Honor - you too. [[Several Members: Aahah!]] Abandon insult, chrispation, anger and take the path of education, urbanity and respect. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-22-CD211222.u5	Mr. Married.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-22-CD211222.u6	I see you have no other measure. Why not pass the organic law to protect the Spaniards and stop insulting the opposition? Do something, Mr. Sanchez, that's what they pay you for. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-22-CD211222.u7	Thank you, Mr. Casado. Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-22-CD211222.u8	Think, Mr. Married, and give me a hand. [[Applauds]] - of Mrs Mertxe Aizpurua Arzallus, of the Parliamentary Group EUSKAL HERRIA BILDU, which FORMULATES THE PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT: Will she complete YOUR GOVERNMENT PROGRAM? [[File number 180/000747]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-22-CD211222.u9	Question by Mrs Mertxe Aizpurua Arzallus of the Parliamentary Group Euskal Herria Bildu.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-22-CD211222.u10	Thank you, President. Mr Sánchez, on December 30, 2019 you signed the government agreement that would mark the road map of this coalition government. I will remind you of two points in this agreement: 1.3, we will repeal the labour reform, and 5.6, we will adopt a new law that replaces the law on gags. It had been two years since the signing of those commitments and his Government had failed. That is why I ask you: will you comply with your own government agreement?
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-22-CD211222.u11	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-22-CD211222.u12	Thank you very much, Madam President. Your Honor, we are going to comply with our government agreements. I'm just going to give you a piece of information. We have not even passed the equator of the legislature, we are facing an unprecedented health, economic and social emergency in the last hundred years of mankind's history and we have already fulfilled 50% of the investment agreement, with which the commitment is firm, of course, unequivocal. We're going to comply with our investiture agreement. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-22-CD211222.u13	Mrs. Aizpurua.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-22-CD211222.u14	What's happening, Mr. Sanchez, is that we're actually worried. We are concerned because, despite his words, everything points to that they will not comply with the repeal of the labor reform and the Mordaza Law. We are concerned that if they do not do so, if they do not comply with the word given, thousands of workers will see how those rights that the right has taken from them will not be returned to the left. The millions of people who trusted you will again feel disappointed and abandoned, and we already know what comes next, a decaffeinated labor reform, to the liking of the employer and a non-derogation of the Law limited gag, which keeps the cut to freedom of expression and assembly. This is what it seems to be going to happen, and the problem is not that it does not comply with the left forces of this House; the problem is that it will not comply with citizenship. I repeat once again, Mr Sánchez, we must not only look different to the right, we must be different to the right, and that is why we say to you, Mr Sánchez, Mrs Calviño, Mrs Díaz, that we are not worth warm measures and decaffeinated proposals, that we are not worth a job reform that does not recover the rights that were taken forward in 2012, beginning with the end of the stateization of the agreements and recovering the shielding and prevalence of the autonomous and provincial ones. It is not the time to give in to the employer, but to bet on the workers and their rights. Think of who should govern, be aware of the consequences of their decisions and act responsibly. We will push them to this and hope that you will not miss this opportunity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-22-CD211222.u15	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-22-CD211222.u16	Thank you very much, Madam President. Let us see, Your Honor, GDP has fallen by 10% in 2020. If we compare it with a fall in GDP of 9 points between the years - I think I remember - 2009 and 2012, when they were lost, almost four million jobs were destroyed, today unfortunately many, 1.4 million jobs have been lost, but we have saved many with the schemes of the ERTE, of the extraordinary benefits for the self-employed and also of the ICO credits. Your Honor, we have saved businesses, we have saved jobs, we have saved many jobs for self-employed workers. With this, Your Honor, the commitment of the Government of Spain to the ERTE mechanisms, to the extraordinary benefits for the self-employed and to the ICO credits, I think it is a good thing, and I do not say it in words, I say it with facts, Your Honor. Because now we are seeing the fruits of all that income policy that we have put in place. We have twenty million employees, Your Honor, we did not have that data before the pandemic, but before 2008, that is, the financial crisis. And what have we been doing over these months? We have passed a law on teleworking that has been a pioneer, at the forefront of the international community; we have adopted measures in favour of equal pay for men and women; we have raised the interprofessional minimum wage; we have recognised labour rights for workers on digital platforms - which, by the way, is something we have opened up at European level -. Your Honor, we are modernizing the entire labour relations framework. We have the really central element, which is labour reform, to which we have committed the two parties that we support this government and which we also have the majority support of the House. We are going to do this, Your Honor, and this government is working with the social partners, with the unions, with the employers to achieve the best of labour reforms, and the best of labour reforms, Your Honor, is the one that has the agreement of the social actors, because it is the labour reforms that endure. The counter-reforms raised by the ladies and gentlemen and the People's Parliamentary Group with the absolute majority that they had in 2010, I believe are the labour reforms that our country does not need. With this, the commitment is firm, unequivocal: we will do this job reform. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEVELOPED Mrs. VEHI CANTENYS, OF THE JOINT PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT: IS THE NATIONAL PATRIMONY OR OTHER STATE ORGANISM LOOKING FOR RESIDENCE TO SOME SPANISH CITIZEN LIVES NOW IN THE FOREIGN? [[File number 180/00740]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-22-CD211222.u17	Question by Mrs Mireia Vehí Cantenys, Member of the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-22-CD211222.u18	Thank you, President. Mr. President, are you seeking residence from any Spanish citizens who are currently abroad?
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-22-CD211222.u19	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-22-CD211222.u20	Your Honor, you must have more information than I do. I can tell you no. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-22-CD211222.u21	Mrs. Vehi.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-22-CD211222.u22	Thank you, President. Notice, Mr President, that in order to be able to ask for the emeritus we have had to invent a subterfuge, because the Spanish Constitution establishes in its article 56.3 that its acts are not subject to responsibility and in 64.2 that the responsibility for the acts of the king is those positions that endorse it, president and ministers. In the case of Juan Carlos I the responsibility was not assumed by anyone. You will remember: 'I am so sorry, I was wrong, it will not happen again', from 2012, or even when you abdicated in this Congress you have presented up to sixteen commissions of inquiry that have been systematically rejected. The question we want to ask you is whether your Government is going to seek residence for the emeritus, and this is important. When he left for the Arab Emirates, the Swiss Prosecutor's Office opened a case for him, a case that had to be closed because Saudi Arabia refused to hand over the relevant documents. As a rebound, the Spanish Supreme Court does not have much room. At the same time, London opens another case linked to Corinna Larsen, and this case will be able to thrive depending on whether the Emeritus King is a formal member of the Royal House. President, you said less than a year ago that you rejected Juan Carlos I's incivic behavior. Is your government looking for a landing platform?
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-22-CD211222.u23	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-22-CD211222.u24	Thank you, Madam President. Your Honor, no, I don't quite understand these questions that you leave in the air. I think I have been clear, as you well remembered in relation to the demonstrations I have made in the past, are information that disturbs me, that I do not like them and that I believe they do harm to the Royal House. Therefore, Your Honor, with this prior consideration, I also say to you that the presumption of innocence must be respected. Because you are actually talking about archives of cases in Spain that are not even being investigated by the courts right now. Your Honor, I know that you do not share what I am going to tell you, but Spanish democracy, with all its imperfections, is a full democracy, it is a social and democratic state of law, and that requires me to respect the independence of the Office of the Attorney General of the State and also that of the Judiciary, that of the Supreme Court, etc., and that is so, Your Honor. Therefore, maximum respect for the independence of the judiciary and, from there, what I can tell you, Your Honor, is that, as I have always said, a political institution is not being judged here, which is what you intend with this question. In any case, we will have to recriminate or not approve the conduct of a certain person, but not of an institution, Your Honor, because, then, if there is a case of corruption between some of your ladies and gentlemen in this House, what does it mean, that all politicians are corrupt? Therefore, we are talking about people, not institutions. In that sense, Your Honor, I use this question to express two things. First of all, as President of the Government, I recognize the efforts of the current head of State to be transparent and exemplary. [[Applauds]] And, secondly, Your Honor, as President of the Government of Spain, but also as Secretary General of the Spanish Socialist Workers Party that participated in the drafting of the Spanish Constitution, we are a party, we are a government and I am the President of the Government who is committed to each and every one of the constitutional institutions. We do, unlike others, comply with all the articles of the Constitution. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEVELOPED GAMARRA RUIZ-CLAVIJO DESIGN OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, which FORMULATES THE VICE-President OF THE AND MINISTER OF ECONOMIC AFFAIRS AND DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION: WHAT BALANCE DOES THE VICE-President DO FIRST OF HER ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT IN 2021? [[File number 180/000749]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-22-CD211222.u25	Questions to the first Vice-President of the Government and Minister for Economic Affairs and Digital Transformation. Question by Mrs Concepción Gamarra Ruiz-Clavijo of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-22-CD211222.u26	Thank you, President. Madam Vice-President, you, apart from the economic leader, are the first Vice-President of the Government. Can you tell us why they are committed to not passing a pandemic law? And, on the other hand, to see if this week we have a little bit more luck and tells us at least one truth, what does it do with its economic management in 2021? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-22-CD211222.u27	Madam First Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-22-CD211222.u28	Thank you, President. Thank you, Mrs Gamarra, for the tone and because you ask what they had sent before, the truth. In addition, it gives me the opportunity to explain to you once again that during this year we have been responding decisively and effectively to the pandemic and that we have also been deploying the Recovery Plan, and that allows us to have a positive economic perspective for 2022. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-22-CD211222.u29	Mrs. Gamarra.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-22-CD211222.u30	Look, Madam Vice President, a public servant is valued for his results and you have failed. It has failed in the management of European funds, no one knows a single Spaniard who has still received a single euro; and I did not speak to them of authorized or committed money, but executed, because you know that that is the only one that is worth, the rest are lies. The system has failed; it has failed by the record of resignations from high office that you have in the ministry, some, accused by the scandal of Plus Ultra, and the rest, pressed for having to defend the indefensible. It has also failed in all its attempts to return to Europe, neither to the ECB nor to the Eurogroup. The difference between you and your Irish colleague, who was elected, is that while he left his country's economy growing by 22%, you keep it and keep us at the back of recovery in Europe. But how were the Europeans going to choose you? Obviously, we have fallen a cross to all Spaniards. With these results, last week he dared to call the president of the People's Party unbalanced. I'm going to tell you some examples of your imbalances that we're all paying absolutely. Unbalanced is talking about an increase in GDP of 6.5% and leaving it at the end of the year two points below. The imbalance is to talk about inflation of 3 % and to be spread to 5,5 % with stagnant consumption. The imbalance is to increase the structural deficit by 55 billion a year at the end of this parliamentary term. Good thing you came as the guarantor of economic orthodoxy. Good luck! Mrs. Calviño, do you remember that Granada hotel I talked about in September? Well, he got his last bill from the light. [[Shows a bill of light]] Tell him, with these 500 euros more, to apply his inflation formula, to see if he recovers the 500 euros. This shows that there are imbalances. I'm also telling you, this party will regain the balance of... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-22-CD211222.u31	Thank you very much. Madam First Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-22-CD211222.u32	Thank you very much, President. Last week I asked you to leave, please, that destructive drift. Following the President's statement, I ask you to reflect, to give a hand, to see if next year we can begin to have a dialogue that is not based on bursts of personal attacks, insults, slanders that have neither feet nor heads. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-22-CD211222.u33	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-22-CD211222.u34	Your Honor, over these twenty-two months of pandemic we have taken a set of measures that your honor knows well because they have been endorsed by this Congress, which have allowed us to protect the productive fabric, employment and incomes of families, and that explains why we have protected a solid basis for recovery. Secondly, we see a recovery that this year goes from less to more, and the data on social security affiliations, employment - like many other high-frequency indicators - are clear with regard to the strength of economic recovery. Thirdly, ladies and gentlemen, yes, we are at a time of high volatility with regard to economic forecasts, but that is why we are taking the daily pulse and that is why we are very focused on pushing forward the recovery plan. Spain is leading the deployment of the recovery plan in Europe. In fact, important steps are being taken this week so that we can be the first country to receive a payment from the Recovery Plan. Your Honor, do not deny the evidence that we have taken the right measures, we are deploying a coherent, balanced economic policy based on fiscal responsibility, structural reforms looking to the future and above all social justice. Faced with its noise, its insults and its rift, this is a government that works thinking of Spanish citizens. [[Rumors]] Please, Your Honor, try to get out of that destructive loop, out of that hole, because you don't go digging down, you come out looking up, looking at examples of opposition in the rest of the European countries. I wish we had an acceptable opposition that was helping at this very difficult time in the Spanish economy. [[Rumors]] I sincerely hope that starting in January we can have a more constructive dialogue because we have a lot to do with it. The deployment of the Recovery Plan requires that we all row together. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF MARGARITE PROHENS RIGO, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHICH FORMULATES THE VICE-President OF THE AND MINISTER OF ECONOMIC AFFAIRS AND DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION: DO YOU THINK YOU'LL CORRECT THE VICE-President FIRST MACRO-ECONOMIC TABLE FOR THE YEAR 2022? [[File number 180/000752]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-22-CD211222.u35	Question by Mrs Margarita Prohens Rigo, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-22-CD211222.u36	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Calviño, first it was the European Commission, then the INE and now the Bank of Spain that took the colours out of it. It has failed in its forecasts and macroeconomic picture. He told us that by the end of the year we would have returned to pre-pandemic levels. The Banco de España warns that, at best, until 2023 we will not have recovered these levels. You, who like to talk so much about European countries, look at this picture: the last of Europe. [[Show A Chart]] You have failed in your predictions, failed in your policies and failed you. The reality is that bankruptcy is triggered in companies, less in interposed societies, as you well know. We have more than 3 million unemployed workers and we have suffered the worst price rise in the last thirty years, which in communities like mine - the Balearic Islands - adds to the permanent cost of insularity. Will they approve next year the special tax regime to be processed thanks to the People's Party? Madam Vice-President, do you intend to correct your macroeconomic picture by 2022? Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-22-CD211222.u37	Madam First Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-22-CD211222.u38	Thank you, President. Your Honor, as I have repeatedly pointed out at this parliamentary seat, we are at a time marked by intense volatility, especially as a result of the pandemic that is evident; just looking at the gaps that we have today in Congress we realize how the pandemic is a fundamental determinant of economic development. But what is clear is that vaccination marked a turning point in spring, that the economy is going from less to more and that we have a strong recovery that allows us to look to the future with hope and confidence. Spain is leading the deployment of the Recovery Plan and this allows us to have a way out of this crisis very different from the previous financial crisis, a way out that is sustained, that is strong, that leads us to get into the car of the new digital and green economy and, above all, a fair recovery that does not increase inequalities but protects in particular the most vulnerable. These are the priorities of our economic policy, which have been guiding us so far and which will continue to guide us in the coming months. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-22-CD211222.u39	Mrs. Prohens.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-22-CD211222.u40	Data against accounts, accounts against stories. You're very nervous and you're normal. He tries to flee to all possible international posts, without success, of course; he has no choice but to cling to sanchismo while his credibility, prestige, moderation - which disappears when there are no cameras in front - and his feminism as a banner has remained on the road. I speak to her as the first deputy president of the government she is. Is it really disgusting for you to denounce here the scandal of minors being held in Baleares under the socialist and Podemos government? Do you really not get upset when you read headlines like - I open quotes -: 'Prostitution extends to all the girls received in some centers' or 'For more than three years we have been reporting it but the Council of Mallorca has not taken any action' - close quotes -. [[Applauds]] You really don't have anything to say? But as long as you keep quiet and politically ascend the head of these centers we will continue to denounce, asking to be investigated until the end. Don't worry so much about the leader of the opposition - disrespect is what you did to him - but it has to be a European mission in April to investigate what your government doesn't want. Beware!, which also happens as with your failed predictions and Europe takes back the colors as vice president, as socialist and as a woman. Thank you very much. [[Applause.- Various Members: Very well!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-22-CD211222.u41	Madam First Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-22-CD211222.u42	Your Honor, despite the tone they still say the same barbarities. Well, I'm going to focus on what matters, the economic situation. [[Rumors.-Several Members: What about the girls?]] The review of the evolution of GDP in the second quarter by the National Statistical Institute... [[Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-22-CD211222.u43	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-22-CD211222.u44	... What surprised all analysts is what is triggering all the revisions that have occurred since then. Tomorrow the National Institute of Statistics will produce a new revision, possibly covering every quarter, first, second and third, of this year and will trigger new revisions of forecasts in the coming weeks and months. That is why it is so important to use high-frequency data, to focus on reality, on the economic pulse, and these data tell us that recovery is underway and we are already at pre-pandemic levels. Your Honor, instead of your attitude, what you do is attack the image of Spain - your leader has been talking about Spain being bankrupt -, what we are doing is working intensively every day to achieve an effective response to the pandemic, to deploy a recovery plan that will allow us to look to the future with hope and confidence, to defend ultimately the image of our country and the general interest, the interest of all Spanish citizens, thinking above all about the future of our children. Thank you very much. [[Applauds.-A Member of the House: What about the girls?]] - OF THE DEVELOPED Mrs BELEN TODAY JULIA, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESUS, WHO FORMULATES THE SEMINAR FIRST AND MINISTER OF ECONOMIC AFFAIRS AND DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION: WHAT MEASURES IS THE FIRST SEMINAR TO MINIMIZE THE ECONOMIC IMPACT OF THE SUBJECT OF THE CPI FOR 30 YEARS? [[File number 180/000753]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-22-CD211222.u45	Question by Mrs Belén Hoyo Juliá, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-22-CD211222.u46	Thank you very much, President. Congratulations, Mrs. Calviño, you continue without telling a single truth, not a single one. It is obvious that in Spain there is neither a fair recovery nor a robust growth nor much less a fiscal responsibility. It speaks of illusion when the IPC is in the clouds - almost as high as its ego -, the highest in the last thirty years. The price increase is going to cost the Spaniards 20 billion euros. The reality is that in the last year light has risen by 600 %; olive oil by 35 %; diesel by 33 %; meat by 15 %, or natural gas by 11 %, let alone the rise in production costs in industry and agriculture. Farmers don't know how they're going to get their harvest going. If the orange, for example, was already losing, imagine how it is now. But this doesn't matter to you, because the electricity from your official house we all pay, just like the gasoline from your official car. The reality is that inflation is coming from luxury to them to try to square their unbalanced accounts, and this they do at the expense of the well-being of all Spaniards. They don't give a shit about leaving families and the most vulnerable businesses to be left in power. Are you going to do something to stop the January coast, Mrs. Calviño? Stop creating poverty and misery. And when I am referring to misery, I am not only referring to economic misery, I am also referring to its moral misery; that moral misery that has been shown by putting itself, in the case of abuse of minors, on the side of the executioners and not of the victims. [[rumors]] [[A Member of Parliament: Come on, come on!-Rumors]] Of course, how can it bother you that we denounce you? How can it get to you? I'll tell you what kind of feminism is yours: it's ridiculous and embarrassing feminism. The sentence against Monica Oltra's husband is devastating. He abused a minor guarded by a councillor, who tried to hide what had happened by creating false reports. She accused her of being a liar and crazy, even bringing her to court handcuffed as if she were a delinquent. [[A honourable Member: What a shame!]] Is that really why you're doing this? You really don't care about this? Answer, use this intervention to rectify. [[Several ladies and gentlemen: Very well!-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-22-CD211222.u47	Madam First Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-22-CD211222.u48	Thank you, President. Your Honor, I am surprised by the lightness, the tone with which they talk about issues that are tremendously delicate, tremendously sensitive, that affect us all personally. Finally, the question they had recorded was about price developments. It is clear that they have already assumed that Spain is leading the vaccination worldwide, that Spain is leading the deployment of the Recovery Plan, that there is a strong recovery underway and, in this context, an upward trend in prices is taking place; an evolution that is also taking place globally. It's a price rebound that doesn't have to surprise us in a context of strong recovery. All the bodies - in particular the European Central Bank and, recently, the Bank of Spain - have reiterated their prediction that this is a transitory phenomenon by its very nature, because it is primarily due to the basic effect: we are comparing last year's prices, the epicentre or the hardest phase of the pandemic. Secondly, because it responds to the problems of global supply chains, which are being resolved. And thirdly, the rise in energy prices. This is the forecast of the most important bodies, the European Central Bank and the Bank of Spain, which explains the maintenance of an expansive monetary policy, accommodation, during 2022. That does not mean that we are not concerned about the factors underlying price developments. Indeed, our Government has taken decisive steps to cushion the impact of energy price developments on international markets on the light account of families, small entrepreneurs, self-employed people and large electric power companies. Week after week - this same week - we have extended the significant reduction in energy taxes until the first months of next year. These are measures that have a high fiscal impact, but we have taken them effectively, precisely to cushion the impact of this development on international markets on the well-being of Spanish citizens and businesses. Your Honor, this is a responsible government, this is a government that acts with determination and effectiveness to try to respond to the problems of the Spanish, and the citizens know that well. Faced with their noise, their slanders, their insults, they know that here is a government that is constantly trying to improve living conditions, respond effectively to challenges and build a better future for younger generations. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-22-CD211222.u49	Mrs. Hoyo.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-22-CD211222.u50	I feel ashamed as a woman and mother. Girls do matter, Mrs. Calviño. [[Several ladies and gentlemen: Very well!- Prolonged applause]] - OF THE DEPARTMENT INES MARIA CAÑIZARES PACHECO, IN SUPPORT OF DON IVAN SPINOSIS OF THE SIMON MONTERS, OF THE VOX PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE VICE-President OF THE AND MINISTER OF ECONOMIC AFFAIRS AND DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION: WHY HAVE THE ECONOMIC POLICY OF THE GOVERNMENT FULLLY ENJOYED THE COUNTRY LIFE OF SPAIN? [[File number 180/00741]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-22-CD211222.u51	Question by Mrs Inés María Cañizares Pacheco, Member of the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-22-CD211222.u52	Thank you, President. Madam Vice-President, is it not surprising that Mr Sánchez did not ask you to accompany him on Monday at the inauguration of the AVE in Galicia and would prefer to be accompanied by the communist minister? And not because of your origin, because you're Galician, too. Perhaps you feel more comfortable with her on her train trip and on her political trip, because in the economic decisions of the last few months it seems that the criterion of a communist minister over the proposals of anyone who was in her day a renowned economist - you -, in charge in Brussels, expert on Community budgets and macroeconomic issues is paramount. That is why you have been relegated to a background in the Government leads us to think that this is the answer to the question you asked. Why has the government's economic policy seriously worsened the daily lives of the Spaniards? And we already know that economic policies that a communist minister can flag can bring nothing good to Spain. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-22-CD211222.u53	Madam First Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-22-CD211222.u54	Thank you very much, President. Your Honor, the truth is that I would have loved to be on that first trip on AVE to Galicia, because it has been a historic moment, a moment when a commitment has been fulfilled that has been pending for years and that connects my autonomous community, my home, my home, with the rest of Spain. It's a historic moment and I would have loved to be there, but unfortunately I couldn't go because I had an appearance in Congress to report on the deployment of the Recovery Plan. [[Applauds]] Your Honor, in these three and a half years we have been implementing a coherent economic policy based on fiscal responsibility, social justice and economic policies of structural reforms looking to the future. These are the principles that have guided us in these three and a half years, that have enabled us to respond effectively to the pandemic and that will guide us in this exit from the crisis, a strong, sustained and just recovery. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-22-CD211222.u55	Mrs. Cañizares.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-22-CD211222.u56	Thank you. The date of the appearance is yours, Madam Vice-President. Look, although you say in your promotional videos that the Spanish economy will recover before the end of this year the level of activity prior to the pandemic, the reality of Spain is that the per capita public debt today is 30 000 euros, when in 2019 it was 25 000 euros; the per capita GDP, 23,000 euros, when in 2019 it was 27 000 euros; the unemployment rate, 14.57%, when in 2019 it was 13.96%; the dissolution of companies, 15 points higher than in 2019, and the creation of companies, 16 less than in 2019; inflation accumulates until November, 5.5%, which results in a loss of purchasing power of 30 billion euros, which will affect the most humble Spaniards, pensioners, officials and workers who have agreed to raise their wages by 1.5%. Inflation, which is the tax of the poor, is in addition to the taxes that you have raised, along with Mr Escrivá's brilliant idea - which also has its re-affirmations with the communist minister - of increasing social contributions. And it seems that it is now Mrs Díaz who is in charge of your government and that you have remained as Mr Sánchez' shield to lie to the Spaniards about the economic recovery, announcing a false GDP growth of 6.5% that the Bank of Spain has left at 4.5%. But continue along that path, which we already know what the President is doing with those who keep his back and lie for him: Ábalos - Delsi case -, on the street; Campos - Forgiving case -, on the street. So, Mrs Calviño, with your growth and recovery figures, otherwise, butterfly. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-22-CD211222.u57	Madam First Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-22-CD211222.u58	Thank you, President. Your Honor, I thank you for advertising my videos, which give transparency and clarity about what this government is doing. Firstly, we have acted at this time with a first objective, which is fiscal responsibility. We have been able to use this fiscal policy decisively to support the productive fabric, to support employment, to support the incomes of families, to try to cushion the negative impact of this pandemic and thus minimize or avoid structural damage that could cost economic recovery. Secondly, social justice. Mr President, we have always been thinking about the most vulnerable - minimum living income, ERTs, employment protection, the social shield, protection against rising energy prices - because we want to have a fair recovery, not to increase inequalities, but to make it possible to integrate in the most effective way possible those at risk of exclusion, the most vulnerable groups, starting with child poverty. Thirdly, structural reforms with a view to the future. That's the recovery plan, it's a future plan, it's a country plan, it's a plan to give more and better opportunities to young people, to allow us to face the next few years with hope and confidence. Because we have always acted effectively in the short term, but with the long lights, thinking about what this exit would be like, how to achieve a sustained recovery that will be lasting and that will ultimately allow Spain in the coming years to continue on the path of prosperity on which we were until it truncated, not with the arrival of this virus, but with the arrival of the previous financial crisis in 2008, which had an absolutely different response, I would say, to which we have given from this government acting responsibly, with determination and, above all, thinking about the well-being of the Spanish citizens. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEVELOPED Mrs Macarena OLONA CHOCLAN, OF THE PARLIAMENTARY GROUP VOX, WHO FORMULATES THE SECOND AND MINISTER OF WORK AND SOCIAL ECONOMY TO THE SECOND CHAIRPERSON: WHY DID YOU USE PUBLIC RESOURCES TO ACCOMMODATE THE VISIT OF PRIVATE CHARACTER TO THE VATICAN? [[File number 180/00742]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-22-CD211222.u59	Question to the second Vice-President of the Government and Minister for Labour and Social Economy. Question by Mrs Macarena Olona Choclán, Member of the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-22-CD211222.u60	With all due respect, Madam President. I'm giving it to you for reproduction.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-22-CD211222.u61	Madam Second Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-22-CD211222.u62	I will answer you in the second part, but I already tell you, Your Honor, that you have two options: either you really act with deceit and bad faith, which I do not rule out, or you actually operate with genuine ignorance. However, I'll answer you later. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-22-CD211222.u63	Mrs. Olona.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-22-CD211222.u64	With all due respect, Madam President. Good morning, Communist minister. Today, December 22, the unemployed at ERTE still have not received their benefit because you, Minister of Unemployment, have not paid them the money you owe them. And while you occupy the Government's largest official home - almost 500 square meters, with service and light included - you have religiously charged your public salary this month, including productivity and extra pay, and use the Armed Forces Falcon for your private trips, they will spend Christmas without having entered a single euro this month. And for the fourth consecutive week I raise my voice to denounce how you have abandoned the unemployed in Spain, with ERTE and without ERTE. And, hey, the communist minister is that she doesn't put on or 'color'. Here we have her, one more week, as if she were not with her, more and more devoured by the character that has been created, more and more distant from reality. Tell me, communist minister, what are you going to answer to the unemployed in Spain this week? Are you going to hide behind the administration of the People's Party ten years ago? Are you going to tell them about the VOX program? Tell the workers in Spain, communist minister, who has lied to them. And so I can't lie to you again, today I bring you the VOX program, which is not that document you exhibited a week ago and about which you lied. [[rumors]] Here is the program of VOX, communist minister, it is called Agenda Spain and, moreover, I will give it to you with a personal dedication of mine: For Yoli, who aspired to be world leader and did not pass from 'fashionaria'. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-22-CD211222.u65	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-22-CD211222.u66	May the Agenda Spain, the VOX program, be the permanent reminder of its betrayal of the Spanish working class. With affection, Maca, who every Wednesday enjoys stripping himself of the false habit he shows and teaching the ugliness he hides. Because you have to be very ugly to dare to threaten millions of Spaniards in the temple of the word. But it is true that for once he said a truth: we are very clear that when VOX rules, you will try to set the streets on fire... [[the rumors continue]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-22-CD211222.u67	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-22-CD211222.u68	But today I want to address the Spaniards to send them a message of absolute tranquility. You will not succeed, because when VOX rules your rabid dogs, class unions, you will not receive a single euro of public funding. [[Rumors]] And when VOX governs and heads of the Ministry of the Interior are a person of law and order, our agents will be able to act with absolute freedom and strictly operational criteria, without any political interference. You guys...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-22-CD211222.u69	Thank you very much, Mrs. Olona. [[Applauds]] Madam Second Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-22-CD211222.u70	Your Honor, I have a special admiration and a particular desire to read to people who don't think like me. Your program I've read very carefully and today I'm also going to talk to you about it. However, I will answer your question about an inappropriate use of the Falcon or a visit to the Roman Pontiff. You, either have failed the truth, or act in bad faith, and I will simply answer that you look at the official agenda of the Government of Spain or the Vatican Official Gazette to check that this visit was official. However, I hope, by the decency of this House, that you will rectify it. Look, Your Honor, politics is not what you do here; politics is not what you do here. Politics does not consist in insulting or defaming the political adversary permanently. Politics is a noble thing. I think you should learn from Chile's lesson, and it's that lies... [[rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-22-CD211222.u71	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-22-CD211222.u72	...and hate has very short legs. I'm going to tell you about your government program, which I know very well. I believe that the people of this House should know what you are defending for our country, and I will talk to you about three measures, measure 26, measure 33 and measure 70. You are proposing, in view of what Spain is experiencing, for example, to erect a wall in Ceuta and Melilla; you are proposing - please, ladies and gentlemen, with the questions we have heard today - measure 33 to leave the Schengen area, which is like leaving the European Union, and you are proposing to repeal the Law on Gender Equality between Men and Women, measure 70. Not only that, but they also want us to leave the World Health Organization in the middle of the pandemic. Your Honor, I believe that the Spaniards have a right to know what you are defending. Your speech has been very clear and, of course, Spain is much better than what you propose. [[Applauds]] - OF MR GUILLERMO MARISCAL ANAYA, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHICH FORMS THE Honourable Vice-President THIRD AND MINISTER FOR THE ECOLOGICAL TRANSITION AND DEMOGRAPHICAL CHALLENGE: WHAT BALANCE DOES YOUR MINISTERIAL EXECUTION IN THIS YEAR OF RUINOSE SCALATED FROM THE PRICE OF LIGHT FOR HOUSE AND ENTERPRISES? [[File number 180/000751]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-22-CD211222.u73	Question addressed to the third Vice-President of the Government and Minister for the Ecological Transition and the Demographic Challenge. Question by Mr Guillermo Mariscal Anaya, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-22-CD211222.u74	Thank you, President. Madam Vice-President, the data are checked, they are not discussed. The price comparison of the CNMC - will know it and, if not, you ask at home - says that between November 13 and December 13, 2019 an average consumer of PVPC - ten million consumers are there - paid 44 euros. That same consumer paid 105, 140%, Mrs Ribera. Today the market, at eight o'clock, will mark 499.5 euros megawatt/hour, new record. What's the excuse? He misdiagnosed, he refused his responsibility and the result is that we will pay at the end of the year the most expensive electric bill in history. He has failed, no longer lies, the fault is always someone else's and the responsibility is never his. From the European Commission you have been sent a letter criticising those who are in the opposite direction of lowering the price of Europe, shaving measures so stupid as, for example, to suggest that wind and photovoltaic plants may have to stop in order not to pay for producing. What's your record as minister, Mrs Ribera? And take advantage of the answer to condemn the abuse of girls in Baleares and Valencia as a woman and as a mother. Thank you. [[Several ladies and gentlemen: Very well!-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-22-CD211222.u75	Third Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-22-CD211222.u76	Thank you very much, President. Thank you very much, Mr Mariscal, for allowing me to remind you of some of the other things you are trying to hide, telling half truths or falsehoods. The first is that, for good or for bad - in general I would say for very well-lived in Europe. I invite you to take a look at the electricity price situation in Europe, because it will be a huge surprise. It does not affect us Russian gas as it affects others, or it does not affect us to have one third of the nuclear fleet standing still, as happens in France directly, but indirectly, obviously, it affects us. The second is that, unlike what happens when you rule, when things get bad for us, we do not apply saving anyone who can, whether in primary care or energy, accusing small investors and speculators or creating taxes that make no sense, but we strive to accompany families, so that we can respond to that commitment that the subset households will pay the same. We cannot intervene in each of the tariffs or in what is the consumption of each of the families, but we can bet on an unprecedented tax reduction and a reduction in the unprecedented charges. And the third, the most important, in any of the social support measures, neither in this nor in any other field, we have never had their support, ever; I repeat: never! [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-22-CD211222.u77	Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-22-CD211222.u78	Thank you. Now they're talking about tax effort, they're saying they're going to collect more taxes. In 2018, on 31 October, between the hydrocarbon tax, the energy value tax, the excise tax and the CO2 collected 11,600 million euros; this 31 October, 12,500, 900 million euros more collection. With the worst economic situation in our country in history they have collected more than ever. Where's the tax effort, Mrs. Calviño, Mrs. Montero, Mrs. Ribera? Where's the tax effort? We have put forward proposals that do have a direct impact on the Spanish's bill: the reduction of VAT on electricity and gas to 4%; all CO2 revenues by lowering the electricity bill; removing non-electric costs from the electricity bill. Why don't they? Our proposal would allow the government to bear these costs and allow the effort to be taken away from families and the competitiveness of businesses. That was the idea and what you reject. What level do you have to reach the energy price in our country - Mrs Ribera, listen to this - so that, following the parameters you used with the PP when we govern, you take your responsibility and resign? What price does light have to have? How many families have to have trouble paying for it? How many companies have to close to take responsibility and resign? Thank you. [[Several ladies and gentlemen: Very well!-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-22-CD211222.u79	Madam Third Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-22-CD211222.u80	Thank you very much. If the energy price were the yardstick to measure with regard to the viability of governments, they would have to resign the 27 governments of the European Union, the Commission and Parliament as a whole, not to mention some of the rest of the world. But speaking of executory, let me remind you, since you like to play riddles and the One, two, three, some questions. Let us project, with regard to what you did in 2012 to 2018, what would have happened if you had been in the government in a situation like this. For example, would the dependence on fossil fuels, which are so volatile and behind this price escalation, have been reduced, or would they have maintained their stake in the gas car, by prohibiting the closure of obsolete plants outside the scope of Community law? I'm sure it would have been this second. Secondly, would you have opted for self-consumption to accompany the families of the local energy communities, multiplying by 2.5 what we have seen in these years, or would you have maintained your sun tax? Would they have maintained the European social bonus by expanding the number of beneficiary families, created the thermal social bonus, or remained only in what they had at the time with enormous limitations? Would they have passed a law on climate change and transition... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-22-CD211222.u81	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President. - OF THE DEVELOPED MARTA ROSIC I SALTOR, OF THE REPULICIAN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE GOVERNMENT: WHY DID THE SPANISH GOVERNMENT ENHANCING THEIR RELATIONS WITH THE TURKEY STATE? [[File number 180/000746]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-22-CD211222.u82	Question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, European Union and Cooperation. Question by Mrs Marta Rosique I Saltor, Member of the Republican Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-22-CD211222.u83	Thank you, President. Minister, a month ago they celebrated the 7th Summit of Spain-Turkey, attended by President Sánchez, Vice-Presidents Díaz and Rivera, Ministers Robles and Maroto and yourself, a delegation which in itself was already a clear declaration of intent, a clear support for the Turkish Government. This is a clear example of how the bank points the way, the Government embarks on it and human rights stay out of it. Let's remember everything, because this hasn't arrived enough. Just before the summit, BBVA announces that it is done with one hundred percent of the shares of the largest Turkish bank, of which it was already the highest shareholder; in full threat of the collapse of the Turkish lira, BBVA bets everything. Two days later the summit begins; while Western states such as the French or the American are moving away from the policies of authoritarian Erdogan, the Spanish Government brags about its approach, the two presidents even boast of their friendship. At the summit, the Government acts as an arms dealer in the purest Juan Carlos style, free trade for anything but arms trade: aircraft carriers, submarines, drones, all that no one would expect from the supposedly more progressive government that this state can have. The summit left without any conclusion on the Istanbul Convention against Gender Violence, from which the Turkish State withdrew. In fact, a journalist asks him at a press conference and Pedro Sánchez avoids it. Let us remember that they withdrew on the grounds that the LGTB collective were depraved and terrorist. Nor did they draw any conclusions on the resolution of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe calling for the release of the Catalan and Kurdish political prisoners. By the way, the return of the Catalan exiles was also called for and no movement has yet been seen in this regard. Minister, why has the Spanish Government intensified its relations with the Turkish State? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-22-CD211222.u84	Minister for Foreign Affairs, European Union and Cooperation.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-22-CD211222.u85	Thank you very much, President. Your Honor, I'm sorry to say that nothing you've said is accurate and many things directly are not true. Spain is a Mediterranean country, exactly like Turkey, and we are in many forums, such as the Union for the Mediterranean, which has met very recently, by the way, in Barcelona, with a record of ministerial assistance. We are members of NATO and share common security. Moreover, starting in 1999, in which Turkey applied for membership of the European Union, it is part of the enlargement group. Therefore, since the mid-1990s there has been a very intense relationship with Turkey between all the governments of Spain, which is only increasing. This Government has not come any closer to Turkey, it has simply continued a line with a country with which we inevitably have ties, political ties through the various governments for more than thirty years. You said it yourself, this was the seventh summit. I remind you of the dates: 2009, 2010, 2011, 2012, 2014, 2018 and stacumber as well. Therefore, there is no intensification, no approach, there is continuity. And yes, our societies and our companies also lead us to this, but it is not something new, it is not something that this government has caused. For example, trade for €68 billion in 2010; €13 billion in 2019. The stock of Spanish investments in Turkey - not to be expected from BBVA -, which in the last ten years has multiplied by six, 530 million euros. There are now more than 600 Spanish companies in Turkey. You don't have to wait for the BBVA, all that was there and it was since the '90s. Therefore, because we are in NATO, because we are together in UPM, because we collaborate in the Alliance of Civilizations of the United Nations, because of migration issues, everything leads us to have that relationship with Turkey. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-22-CD211222.u86	Mrs. Rosique.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-22-CD211222.u87	Thank you. Tell me, Minister, is it not true that the Spanish Government is silent about the continuing human rights violations by the Erdogan Government? Is it not true that the Government is silent about the Armenian genocide that took place more than ten years ago and that it has not even recognized it yet? Isn't it true that the government is silent about Erdogan's offensive to illegalize the supposedly brotherly party of the Socialist Party, the HDP? Tell us, Minister... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-22-CD211222.u88	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rosique. Minister for Foreign Affairs, European Union and Cooperation.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-22-CD211222.u89	Clearly, that's not true. When Turkey withdraws from the Istanbul Convention, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, on behalf of the Government of Spain, issues a communiqué deeply regretting that they have done so and asking them to return. But don't forget, Spain can be the voice that attracts Turkey to human rights at all times and we are a bridge between the European Union and Turkey. We express our discrepancies, but that doesn't prevent...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-22-CD211222.u90	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPUTATE OF THE FRENCH BALDE EDMUND, OF THE CITIZEN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE VICE-President OF THE AND MINISTER OF ECONOMIC AFFAIRS AND DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION: DOES THE GOVERNMENT CONSIDER THAT THE PRINCIPLE OF EQUALITY BETWEEN SPANISH? [[File number 180/000744]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-22-CD211222.u91	Question addressed to the Minister for Finance and Public Service. Question by Mr Edmundo Bal Francés, Member of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-22-CD211222.u92	Mrs Montero, do you consider that your fiscal policy respects the principle of equality between Spaniards?
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-22-CD211222.u93	Minister of Finance and Public Service.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-22-CD211222.u94	Thank you very much, Madam President. Of course I do, Mr. Bal. In fact, the decision taken yesterday by the Council of Ministers, unlike what you, the banks of the right, usually proclaim, this government has accompanied with a drop of more than €45 billion to all families, to all industry, to all SMEs, to allow them to use energy efficiently and that these prices did not directly affect their well-being and progress. Therefore, the answer is bluntly yes. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-22-CD211222.u95	Mr. Bal.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-22-CD211222.u96	Mrs Montero, we're used to you coming here to tell us that you don't raise taxes, that you don't raise tax pressure, but the Spaniards are sick of the sands you put on them. The OECD denies it. He says that Spain is the country that has grown the most in fiscal pressure, 1.9%. We are above the average fiscal pressure of the countries in the OECD area. You say: well, but nothing happens because the collection is maintained because we create jobs. Again, we find that the OECD denies it and says that both the OECD and the euro area are the most unemployed country. You create an expectation of growth and, little by little, the European Union and Banco De España are lowering the expectation of growth. You want us to live in the worlds of Yupi. His happy Arcadia, those worlds of Yupi, is a country with more unemployment, with more taxes, with more contributions for the self-employed, with more fiscal pressure and with less growth. And where's that money going to end? To its twenty-two ministries; to the number of advisors, which is increasing; to the Catalan in Netflix of these gentlemen from next door, to flights in the Falcon on the weekends of the president and vice president... And where does the money come from? It comes from those families who are suffering that there are childcare places but who charge a little more and are unable to enjoy them. It comes from those families that with their effort are subsidizing the food bonus, the social bonus, the electric bonus, but they charge a little more and they cannot enjoy that bonus and, in addition, they see increased the price of the shopping basket for inflation. It is the families that support the State that receive no State aid: the super payers, the paganis, who always fulfil their obligations. Do they have to become nationalists, regionalists or separatists for this government to pay attention to them? But it is that, in addition, to this plenary they bring us the coupon, the Basque quota, the reform of the Law of the Basque concert. Look, the Christmas fat guy falls every year in the Basque Country. The ones with champagne are always the PNV and Bildu; the extremists are still without a train; you and the PP are still unresolved the problem of autonomous financing for decades. Let's see if they are dedicated to governing for those who always comply and not for the eternal non-compliances. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-22-CD211222.u97	Minister of Finance and Public Service.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-22-CD211222.u98	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Bal, indeed, your intervention today highlights the impotence of Citizens, the inability of you to have your own speech and your original sin. Because you don't get it, Mr. Bal. You know why? Because you denounce that you have left the government of Castile and Leon on kicks, according to you. However, they have no pain in continuing to support the autonomous governments, municipal governments and to follow together the Popular Party and VOX discourse. [[Applauds]] That is the problem that Citizens have and does not finish understanding it. It is perfectly superposable your intervention here today to which you could have made VOX and to which the People's Party could have made, because you do not respond to the truth. You are the ones who lower taxes on those who have the most. If not, what have you done in Andalusia? If not, what have you done in other autonomous communities? Lower taxes to those who have more than 300,000 euros, while the rest of the citizens continue to pay religiously. [[Applauds]] Not this government. This government, when it lowers the bill for light, affects each and every household, every SME, every enterprise. It's over €4.5 billion. Therefore, Mr Bal, I too will make a recommendation to you: take advantage of Christmas; take advantage of it to rethink your political space. I do not know if you realize - I imagine you do - but you are being run over by mimeticism in the speech you practice, because it is not worthy for you to kick them out of a government and continue permanently behind those who are scorning you, holding where you rule, imitating your speech and giving them strength, giving them encouragement for the next elections. Not that way. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEVELOPED GIL LAZARO IGNACIO, OF THE VOX PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF THE INTERIOR: DOES IT CONSIDER ACCEPTABLE THAT A PART OF THE GOVERNMENT AND THEIR SOCIETS ARE DECIDED TO ATTACK VERBALLY TO THE FORCES AND DEURITY BODIES OF THE STATE - HOW HAS IT COME TO HAPPEN IN THE LAST DAYS - ARE YOU GUARD OF SILENCE? [[File number 180/00743]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-22-CD211222.u99	Question to the Minister for the Interior. Question by Mr Ignacio Gil Lázaro, Member of the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-22-CD211222.u100	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, do you consider it acceptable that you remain silent while a part of the government and its partners verbally attack the State Security Forces and Bodies, as has happened again in recent days? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-22-CD211222.u101	Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-22-CD211222.u102	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Gil Lázaro, thank you very much, but I will tell you that no member of the nation's government has verbally attacked the State Security Forces and Corpses. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-22-CD211222.u103	Mr. Gil.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-22-CD211222.u104	Thank you, Madam President. Look, Minister, you have to have a lot of relief to say what you just said. When from the government the communists and from outside the separatist and pro-Earth partners call, as they have called in this House, torturer fascists the members of the State Security Forces and Corpses, you shut up. When from the government the communists denounce to the Council of Europe police and civilian guards for legitimately protesting against a law of citizen security that leaves them sold on the street, you shut up. When Sanchez' partner, Otegi, insults the heroic memory of dozens of civilian guards and police killed by ETA and this weekend he goes to the burning chapel of the murderer Troitiño to gloss his trajectory or yesterday he sends his hosts to flaunt the presence of former ETA chief Mikel Antza in the San Sebastián courts, you shut up. And when in this House, organized by a part of the government, the communists, with the collaboration of all their partners and the permissiveness of sanchismo, there is organized a nauseous tribute, as happened last week, to six far left thugs who caused very serious riots in Zaragoza, in which thirty-five policemen were wounded, and on top of that act is called criminals police and judges, you too shut up. Look, his cowardly silence portrays him, as does the moral indignity of this government. That is why today, on behalf of millions of Spanish people who are sick of so much vileness, I express here my gratitude, tribute, disgrace and affection to those Security Forces and Bodies that you have abandoned, and I say in this Chamber, where so many times you have been insulted, loud and clear, with pride, looking to your face: live the National Police Corps, live the Civil Guard. [[Let me give you a round of applause.-Some Members: Long live!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-22-CD211222.u105	Thank you very much, Mr. Gil Lazarus. [[Rumors]] Quiet, please. Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-22-CD211222.u106	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you, Mr. Gil Lazarus. After listening attentively to the morning rally to which we are subjected to all parliamentarians and members of the government every Wednesday, I will tell you that in the last decades I only know one person from this rostrum who has attacked the National Police and the Civil Guard head-on, and I am sure you know him: Ignacio Gil Lázaro. [[applause]] [[Applauds]] In 1998, while ETA was killing national police and civilian guards, you requested that prison benefits be taken into account for prisoners of the terrorist organization ETA. [[Applauds.-Protests.-A honourable Member: Yes, yes.]] You have presented, with all the indignity and defamation, four hundred written questions attacking the police investigation into the biggest terrorist attack in this country on 11 March; it should embarrass you. You described Operation Gürtel and the police investigation as a political operation directed against the People's Party. I remind you of the judicial results of declaring corruption and how the People's Party lost the Government in this regard. You, in Mr. Rajoy's first legislature, silenced and applauded the loss of 13,000 National Police and Civil Guard personnel with security implications. [[Protests.-Applause.]] He applauded the police for covering up the corruption of the People's Party; he applauded the establishment of the patriotic police and the media for seducing them from the fight against terrorism or against macho violence. [[Protests.-Mr. Gil Lazarus utters words that are not perceived]] You did all that. Just because of all that I'm telling you...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-22-CD211222.u107	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-22-CD211222.u108	... that you, who are in the opposition and in the Government have attacked the State Security Forces and Corpses, apply your words and show respect and consideration to the National Police and the Civil Guard and not mere screams. I wish him all the best in 2022 and, above all, I wish him to enter the twenty-first century, which he needs quite a bit. [[Some Members: Very well!- Prolonged applause of the Socialist Members of the Parliamentary Group, stood up]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-22-CD211222.u109	Thank you. - OF THE MINISTER OF HEALTH: WHAT MEASURES IS THE GOVERNMENT CONSIDERING TO GUARANTEE PUBLIC HEALTH BEFORE THE PROGRESS OF VARIANT OMICRON? [[File number 180/000754]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-22-CD211222.u110	Questions to the Minister of Health. [[Rumors]] Quiet, please. Question by Mr Iñigo Errejón Galván, Member of the Plural Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-22-CD211222.u111	Thank you, Madam President. Minister: What measures is the Government taking to deal with the Omicron variant?
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-22-CD211222.u112	Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-22-CD211222.u113	Thank you, Madam President. Your Honor, as we have done since the pandemic began: with coordination with health administrations, by the hand of science and, of course, with prevention as the best ally and vaccination as the best weapon we have to fight this virus. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-22-CD211222.u114	Mr. Errejón.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-22-CD211222.u115	Thank you, Minister. We have had almost two years of a pandemic, and now that we are in the midst of a wave we must recognize that we have demanded a great deal from the Spanish citizen - we have demanded limits, privations and sacrifices - and the Spanish citizen has fulfilled; now, on these dates, I am actually afraid that those who have not fulfilled are the governments. If governance means anything, it is fundamentally anticipating, and I am convinced that you will agree with me that holding a Conference of Presidents at forty-eight hours from Christmas Eve, at which rules are to be laid down for Christmas Eve, is anything but anticipating. Today, the situation is not easy for most people; people find it very difficult to find tests or, if they find them, prices don't stop rising; in health centers they don't pick up the phone or they don't give you an appointment, and hospital emergencies are collapsing. That means that many people, simply and plainly, have been left alone at a difficult time. We had a lot of discussions here during the first wave where we all spoke seriously, didn't we?: the COVID was a historic partition, it had taught us lessons that we would never forget about the need for a solidarity community, robust public services, a strong and responsible state, and I have to admit that today I do not know if it is true that we have taken note and learned something. We said here that an entrepreneurial state was needed for self-industrialization and, in this case, for a public pharmaceutical company, to put the interests and health of citizens above any other consideration. We were told it wasn't the time. It was not done and today it turns out that the tests have either been sold, or they are not found, or they do not stop rising in price, and for most people finding them is a difficulty. We said here that applause on the balconies to the toilets had to be brought to the Constitution, that public health had to be armored in order to make further cuts impossible. Many people sat down, but it was said: this is not the time to get into that eggplant. It was not done, and two months ago the Autonomous Community of Andalusia put on the street eight thousand health workers - eight thousand health workers - who would now be much needed, because we do not shield health in the Constitution. The Community of Madrid, at the same time as Mrs Ayuso's Government of the Community of Madrid is closing down the urgent needs of primary care centres, has little shame and lack of confidence in insulting the health care workers and telling them that it is their fault that we are suffering. Minister, we believe that the government, before asking the Spanish for new sacrifices, must ensure more anticipation...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-22-CD211222.u116	Thank you very much, Mr Errejón. Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-22-CD211222.u117	Thank you very much, Madam President. Your Honor, as is known, throughout Europe and much of the world we are witnessing a significant increase in contagion as a result of the Omicron variant. In our country, we are also experiencing increased infections, but also with differences with the same period of a year ago regarding hospitalization and ICU. This pandemic, it is true, continues to offer us uncertainties, but also quite certainties from the hand of science and, of course, from the hand of observational study. And it's just that vaccines work, ladies and gentlemen. Moreover, if we observe the cumulative incidence, and we do it by age groups, we see how in people over 70 years of age, that is, those who have received a booster dose, has a much lower incidence. The same question can be considered, although at a shorter distance, with the groups 12 to 19 years old, who have also received the dose recently. Because - as we also know - immunity from vaccines over time is coming down. What are we doing, ladies and gentlemen? The determination of the Government of Spain with the autonomous communities is to continue to vaccinate, not only those who have not received it, who are less than 10%, as you well know, but especially the booster doses, which are vital; those over 40, but with particular emphasis, those over 60, health professionals and also socio-health workers, and of course those under 5 to 11 years of age to start stabilizing these groups. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, vaccination as the best weapon, but also prevention, measures that we know - no matter what the letter of the Greek alphabet of the variant - that protect us: the use of masks and 6 months. And also, sir - you will agree with me - since the co-governance. And there's one thing I want to say about all the effort to get here, and it's that the spine, who made it possible, is the healthcare professionals, Your Honor. It will allow me - and I think it will agree with me - especially today, to focus on those of primary care, which deserve our recognition, which deserve our support and no reproach, ladies and gentlemen; no reproach. [[Applauds]] It is not acceptable that in the time we are charging against them; rather, on the contrary. And also, Your Honor, since the co-governance. The Conference of Presidents is always an excellent time and opportunity for further progress together. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEVELOPED WOMAN YOUNG GOROSPE ELEZKANO, OF THE VASCO PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF HEALTH: WHAT MEASURES IS GOVERNMENT GOING TO TAKE BEFORE ANTIGEN TEST IN PHARMATICS? [[EAJ-PNV]] [[File number 180/000755]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-22-CD211222.u118	Question by Mrs Josune Gorospe Elezcano from the Basque Parliamentary Group [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-22-CD211222.u119	Thank you, President. Good morning, minister. There is no antigen test in many pharmacies. What steps have they taken or are they going to take to resolve this situation?
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-22-CD211222.u120	Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-22-CD211222.u121	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Gorospe, from the ministry and from the Spanish Medicines Agency we have been in contact with all the parties involved following the situation and taking the necessary measures to help solve it. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-22-CD211222.u122	Mrs. Gorospe.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-22-CD211222.u123	With the one that's falling, no one who wants to protect their lives and wants to protect the lives of others would have to have trouble going to a pharmacy and getting an antigen test, and they have problems. No one who wants to get an antigen test should pay more than it does for problems of balance between supply and demand because there is not enough supply. That shouldn't happen either. Seven months ago we asked him in writing, following the amendment of Royal Decree 1662/2020, whether he would take into account the allegations made to him by associations of bioscience companies. We asked him if he was going to establish an accelerated procedure for this type of test, which did have professional authorization, but not for self-diagnosis. He told us that it was already provided for in the royal decree. Since then, they have done nothing and have begun to contact us following the question we have recorded. We recorded the question and at six or seven hours e-mails began to circulate with those companies that, for six months, were already meeting the specific conditions and had not authorized them. They're going to tow, they're going late and they're only moving when they're being questioned about it, when they're being urged to do so, and the situation requires dynamism, a lot of dynamism. They have to put on the batteries. There is a productive sector to be able to do so. They have licenses granted by the Agency for Medicines and Sanitary Products to launch antigen tests. They're the zero kilometre industry. They have previously referred to the debate that took place at the beginning of the pandemic, because what is unforgivable is that we are in this situation almost two years after the start of the pandemic, because what happened to the masks did not have to happen again now. It's in your hands. Better late than never, but they have zero kilometer products to solve this situation. It has to be stacked, because what cannot be is that, with which it will fall in the coming weeks, pharmacies have problems having suppliers supplying them with antigens and, above all, to protect public health, absolute priority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-22-CD211222.u124	Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-22-CD211222.u125	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Gorospe, ladies and gentlemen, there are currently twenty-three rapid tests of self-diagnostic antigens for COVID in Spain. These tests, as you have said, are sold in pharmacies without prescription for weeks, Your Honor, not what you just said. For weeks we have been in contact with companies in Spain for these tests and, especially, with the Federation of Pharmaceutical Distributors, Fedifar, to follow the distribution. I think it's important to consider this matter to comment that the demand for this test has multiplied by more than a thousand. In order to respond to this exponential increase in the demand for testing, ladies and gentlemen, as a temporary measure the Spanish Medicines Agency will issue express authorizations to allow the sale in pharmacies of certain tests of antigens for professional use for the use of the population. They are tests similar to those of self-diagnosis, that is, with a nasal sample taken to facilitate the extraction of the nasal sample. These authorizations, ladies and gentlemen, meet a number of criteria, as it cannot be otherwise, that is, that they have been validated for use in the European Union, which is very important; secondly, as I have just commented, that it is a nasal sample because nasopharyngeals do not seem to be the most suitable for the difficulties that it may cause a person to do to himself, and also in identifying, for us as fundamental, national manufacturing companies, what you call a zero kilometer we are already doing, Mrs Gorospe. I should like to inform you that AEMPS has already identified companies that meet these criteria and that it has already implemented these temporary authorisations. Therefore, Your Honor, I understand your concern, I share it, of course, but what I do not believe, because it is not true, is that we act when you ask; on the contrary, our concern is total, it is maximal, from calm, but from the utmost speed and anticipation to bring these solutions to the problems that are being raised at every moment and in every place. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-22-CD211222.u126	We are now dealing with the appeals addressed to the Government. Firstly, urgent inquiry by the VOX Parliamentary Group into the measures to be taken by the Government to protect the Spanish tourism sector. For your defence, Mrs. Rueda Perelló has the floor. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, please ask for a little silence so that we can continue with the plenary session.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-22-CD211222.u127	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Minister, today VOX brings to this House an urgent inquiry into the measures the Government is going to take to protect the Spanish tourism sector. See if we are concerned and occupied by Spain and the serious situation in the tourism sector that, as a result of its erratic policies, sadly, a year and nine months after the outbreak of the Chinese virus we are again talking about urgent measures to protect Spanish tourism. But, before I enter the matter, let me on behalf of the VOX Parliamentary Group show our affection and affection to all the relatives and relatives of those who died by coronavirus and to all those who have lost loved ones, especially our condolences on such marked dates. [[Applauds]] Minister, it ends a year, a year that is being very hard and a nightmare for many Spaniards. A health crisis, but also social and economic, with its attacks on freedom as a result of prohibitions and restrictions imposed on us by this government: concessions to the enemies of the nation in exchange for power, lack of leadership, promised aid that does not arrive, massive closures and redundancies, rising taxes, historic peaks in the bill of light, unemployment, falling GDP, uncertainty, ruin, misery and the worst crisis with the worst government at the front; the worst government, which has a compulsive lying Sánchez, just has to look at the hemeroteca to see that in the campaign it lied to its voters when it went through the stands saying that it will not deal with Bildu, and now we have budgets that are stained with blood by the signature of ETA's heirs. It is deplorable because it attacks the memory of the victims. [[The lady]] We also have budgets signed by all those who hate the nation, and we have on the blue bench communist ministers, those ministers who have not worked in their lives and who run ministries that cost the Spanish millions of euros, euros that collect through taxes. And we have make-up ministries of green, chiringuitos that do not protect victims of violence, and we have the one who tells us that we do not eat meat, that we do not take sugar and that our children are going to impose on them with what toys they have to enjoy, a boycotter of the tourist, meat and sugar industries, who, as seen, should work in the second part of the recipe book and in the second part of the book Why I am a Communist, so that he is entertained and does not continue to attack industries that are essential to our country. In addition, we have a minister, the Minister of Labour, because we have already seen that in Congress he faced VOX saying: If one day they come to the government - which, I add, will be sooner than later - they will have strikes and mass demonstrations. And the minister says she's sending thousands of Spaniards to unemployment! And we have a minister of tourism who this year, during the worst crisis in the sector, criminalizes VOX by saying that we were responsible for sending him a letter containing a knife, a letter sent to him by a person with psychiatric problems. And it was tremendously reckless when I said: the Democrats are threatened with death if we don't stop VOX. Those who are threatened with death are the industry, tourism, trade, all economic activities, with a government that is bringing us to ruin, misery and despair. We also have a minister, Montero, who said up to four times that he would not raise taxes. We also have the unworthy Marlaska and the rest of the members of the bench, but I'd run out of time if I talked about his battles. The situation in Spain is clearly marked by the health crisis. For this virus, yes, but it is aggravated by the prohibitions imposed by the Government during the unconstitutional states of alarm, thus declared by the Constitutional Court thanks to the appeals lodged by this parliamentary group. Most sectors have been hit hard, and one of the most suffering is tourism and all related activities. I remember them: waiters, hoteliers, taxi drivers, bus drivers, hotel cleaners, security guards, among many others. As is widely known, tourism was one of the main engines of the Spanish economy. According to the INE, in 2019, tourism generated almost 13% of total employment and Spain was the second most visited country, being internationally recognized as the leader in tourism competitiveness. Turespana now recognizes that all branches of tourism show a decrease in the number of people employed. In the hospitality industry, for example, the sector has 110 000 fewer jobs than in 2019, to which the 60,000 workers in ERTE must be added, those ERTE who are not arriving. On the near future of tourism, unless the sector is stimulated, when the recovery takes place it will turn out that millions of jobs have been destroyed. And it is supposed that the recovery of tourism will come in 2025 - according to the recently published report - but if we continue with policies that do not protect the self-employed entrepreneurs in the sector it may turn out that we have tourists, but not companies that provide the service. Many have remained in the way and others will remain if they do not carry out effective policies, because they are leaving them behind for as long as they come to say otherwise. On the basis of the facts, I say to you: in December 2020 - nine months after the start of the pandemic - Decree-Law 35/2020, of urgent measures to support the tourism sector, a decree that actually offered debt and postponements, and now entrepreneurs see with fear that the time is approaching when they have to return ICOs, and as they have no income or barely have it they see it with much fear. Organizations such as the Association of Self-employed, the Spanish hospitality associations or the Spanish Confederation of Travel Agencies tell them: these subsidies were insufficient. In March of this year, one year after the beginning of the health crisis, Decree-Law 5/2021 was published, which was supposed to collect the long-awaited direct aid for self-employed people and entrepreneurs. The production in Moncloa was put on a machine and gave great headlines. The reality is that the amount was insufficient because it allowed only half of the business fabric to be supported; only 95 of the 538 CNAE codes. It established such requirements, which made them virtually impossible to access and did not achieve an equitable distribution among the regions most affected by the crisis. Then, to try to save this disaster, what do you do? Decree-Law 6/2021, with measures that discriminate the sectors according to the community or autonomous city in which they operate. In their decrees we see discrimination between sectors of activity, because they exclude activities. VOX collected it in an initiative he presented in this House and we said it loud and clear: they must compensate any company that has seen their billing compromised because they were banned from working and imposed restrictions on them. [[Applauds]] They exclude the footwear sector, with 43% of female employment - as they say women are so concerned, a sector that had lost more than 19,000 jobs - from souvenir shops, road transport, hairdressers, beauty centres, decorating shops, self-schools. In short, they exclude many who were forbidden to work and, above all, deny them support. And the most overwhelming thing is that they adopted resolutions on the lines of endorsements through ICO, leaving out companies like, for example, those of active tourism. Its decrees contain an unfair distribution within the national territory. And what's the consequence? An inequality between self-governments, without considering, for example, the fall in GDP in provinces such as Santa Cruz de Tenerife, with 19%, or Malaga, with 17%. What do we got? Autonomous first and second, depending on where you exercise the activity. In the Autonomous Community of Andalusia, for example, where tourism is essential, GDP has fallen, unemployment has risen and we have almost a million unemployed people. And as far as the business fabric is concerned, a total of 20,000 companies have been lost. They are so disconnected from reality that they even condition access to aid on the basis of viable companies and should know that negative results have different interpretations depending on the investment curve, the depreciation strategy and economic projections. It is insulting to establish that a SME that has had losses in 2019 cannot access direct aid and that Plus Ultra, which has been in loss for years, is given EUR 53 million. This latter requirement leaves out thousands of self-employed workers and entrepreneurs with newly created businesses, like any company in their early days, those who when they start present losses in the first years of life, but not that they are less viable, but, of course, they don't know that because most of those who rule don't know what it is to raise a blind or be at the head of a business. By the way, Minister, the deadline for granting aid under Decree-Law 5/2021 is 31 December. It is estimated that the majority of the autonomous communities will return between 50% and 60% of the funds received. He conveyed to him the words of the president of ATA: This plan has been a failure, since around 20% of the self-employed - only 20% - have been able to apply for aid. The EFE Agency stated in a report published on 15 December that 48% of the €7 billion approved will also not arrive. European funds are not coming and we have a government with a lack of planning and support for the tourism sector. It's all so chaotic that even at airports you notice your lack of planning. So I'm going to tell you what you should do to save tourism: to promote actions aimed at amending that decree which is so exclusive, Decree-Law 5/2021; to extend the deadline for applying for aid; to increase the amount; to establish more flexible requirements for the concept of viable enterprise; to improve the competitiveness of the tourism sector; to increase consumer confidence; to promote training programmes; to promote the protection of the traditional historical and artistic heritage as a guarantor of our national identity and to promote the creation of rural economy enterprises. You will tell me that this is already in what you have done, but I have just shown you that no, that it is not, because the reality is the number of people who are now in the queues of hunger, the number of hoteliers who, unfortunately, have committed suicide and the number of people who are plunged into misery and poverty. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, some of them on the floor]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-22-CD211222.u128	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Next, I have the floor on behalf of the Government, the Minister for Industry, Trade and Tourism.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-22-CD211222.u129	Thank you, President. Mrs Rueda, the first thing I would like to make clear is that for the government tourism is a priority sector on our agenda; it was at the beginning of the pandemic, when we approved an ambitious safety net to protect the tourism sector, and it is also being so now that we are deploying the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan, which will mobilise €34 billion of investment to modernise our tourism sector and improve its competitiveness, because our priority is that Spain remains an international tourism leader. You always come up to this rostrum, first, to tell lies - then I will refute some of the lies you have said - but, above all, posing a catastrophic scenario of the situation of our tourism sector, when, Mrs Rueda, the monthly data show us that tourism in Spain is recovering. Your bad wishes are not being fulfilled, Mrs. Rueda, on the contrary, we are very close to recovering the level of employment that the sector had in 2019. In November, the number of participants in the tourism sector exceeded 2.3 million workers; 235 123 jobs were created, Your Honor, and the recovery path continues for the fifth consecutive month. On Monday we were aware of international passenger data, exceeding 30.2 million until November and an increase of 52.7% compared to the same period of 2020; and overnight stays in hotel establishments, which exceeded 144 million euros until October, have increased, Your Honor, by 67.4% over the same period of the previous year. These good facts, ladies and gentlemen, are the result of Spain's doing well. And I would like to highlight three factors that have contributed to the recovery of the tourism sector: the first is the professionalism and tireless work of the entire value chain of the tourism sector, which has been able to adapt in record time to the strictest health requirements for the control of the pandemic. Thanks to the commitment and the work of entrepreneurs, self-employed, workers in the sector, today we are much better than a year ago, Your Honor. The second is the success of the vaccination process, recognized by the World Health Organization, which has congratulated Spain on the management of this pandemic. The success of the vaccination strategy has placed Spain at the top of the countries with a higher vaccination rate at a full rate of 89.7% of the target population. Today, the world, Your Honor, sees us as an example to follow by the confidence that Spanish citizens have shown towards their public health system. Vaccination has also enabled us to develop a policy of opening borders, of easing the health requirements for entry to Spain, which was introduced when it was safe to do so and following the European recommendations. We are moving ahead, Your Honor, with other countries in implementing the European Union's digital COVID certificate, which was launched even before the official entry into force on 1 July and which has encouraged the gradual recovery of international mobility that we have been appreciating since June. The third factor that has contributed to the recovery of tourism is the ambitious safety net that we have put in place since the start of the pandemic and that has made it possible to protect thousands of businesses, millions of workers in the tourism sector and that we will maintain until the crisis is over. Ladies and gentlemen, the Government is facing this health crisis in a very different way from that seen in the previous financial crisis; a financial crisis that has been sustained in prescriptions such as cuts and wage devaluation, prescriptions that have led us to the biggest economic crisis, from which we are still recovering, ladies and gentlemen. The Spanish Government is, as I say, facing this crisis in a different way. We have deployed a set of measures and an ambitious safety net, from the ICO's endorsements to the ERTEs, through the provision of autonomous measures to support business solvency, which have avoided enormous economic damage. Ladies and gentlemen, in order to get an idea of the effectiveness of this safety net, I have to tell you that of the more than one million workers in the tourism sector who came to be protected by the ERTE in the toughest months of the pandemic, by mid-December there were fewer than 50,000 people left; workers, ladies and gentlemen, who will continue to have the protection of this instrument. An unprecedented amount of ICO-backed and managed loans has been mobilised; as of 30 November, EUR 18.3 billion of funding has been provided to more than 130,000 tourism, leisure and cultural enterprises. In addition, the Government has transferred €7 billion in direct aid to the Autonomous Communities, from which SMEs and self-employed persons from the tourism sector were beneficiaries. This is an unprecedented budget allocation designed to support businesses and self-employed people in the entire value chain of the sector. Also, Your Honor, the Congress of Deputies endorsed last week, through the Royal Decree-Law 27/2021, the extension - Your Honor, the extension - of the ICO line of guarantees for self-employed persons and companies until June 30, 2022; but also, Your Honor, it was extended so that the autonomous communities that have to manage direct aid can do so in longer time, also until June 30, 2022. Therefore, it does not go up to tell lies and generate rift and fear in the self-employed and companies in the tourism sector. The Government is working to protect them and we will continue to do so; and, ladies and gentlemen, we are doing so within the framework of the social dialogue, which is essential to give stability and support to the measures we have deployed. Now our priority is that the recovery of the tourism sector is consolidated in 2022, and for this, as I have said, we are deploying a recovery plan that is equivalent to what our country has received in structural funds since our accession to the European Union. The Modernisation and Competitiveness Plan of the tourism sector will mobilise an investment of €34 billion over the next three years in different strategic areas of action such as the sustainability of tourist destinations and products, the promotion of the energy efficiency of the circular economy, the preservation of our rich historical heritage of tourist use or the digital transformation of the tourism sector. This plan, Your Honor, is already under way; we have authorised more than EUR 849 million, of which 615 correspond to the tourism sustainability plans for destination, which we approved yesterday at the sectoral conference. We have approved more than 100 million euros in direct grants to autonomous communities and local entities to maintain our rich historical and cultural heritage in such important goods as the Camino de Santiago the fifteen cities World Heritage. We also approved 45 million to promote transformative actions that improve the sustainability, digitization and competitiveness of the destinations belonging to the roads of Santiago; an investment, Your Honor, collected in the National Tourism Plan Xacobeo 2021-2022, which yesterday we were also able to approve at the sectoral conference. In addition, yesterday we approved at the Council of Ministers EUR 46 million for the Canary Islands, the Balearic Islands, Ceuta and Melilla, the outermost regions which undoubtedly provide an impetus for the recovery of tourism. This government meets the milestones of the recovery plan and therefore, Your Honor, Spain has been the first country - I repeat, Spain has been the first country - to receive the EUR 10 billion of European funds corresponding to this semester. Faced with the lies, the insults and the rift that is heard in this House in every control session, especially the VOX bench and, of course, the People's Party bench, the Government, ladies and gentlemen, is working to resolve the problems of the Spanish, strengthening the dialogue to reach agreements such as the last one the Ministry of Transport has reached with the transporters, and making, ladies and gentlemen, a useful policy. Because yes, in this is what the Spanish Government is occupied and concerned about, in solving the problems of the workers, the self-employed and the Spanish families. I conclude with four ideas. Firstly, we need to continue with prevention measures to control the pandemic; we need to continue the vaccination process in order to strengthen security and confidence, which is very important for the recovery of our tourism sector. Secondly, we will continue to protect the productive fabric and employment, especially from the sectors most affected by the pandemic such as tourism. Thirdly, we will continue to support international mobility in a health security environment to keep Spain as a safe destination. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, we must make the most of the opportunity provided by European funds to tackle the process of modernisation and transformation of our tourism sector, to make it more competitive, more sustainable and more inclusive. Ladies and gentlemen, the economic and social policy measures we have taken have made it possible to protect our productive fabric, employment, family incomes and, ultimately, to ensure a solid basis for a just recovery. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-22-CD211222.u130	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much. I now give the floor to Mrs Rueda Perelló.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-22-CD211222.u131	Minister, it is the height of defachation, hypocrisy and moral misery that you tell me that what I have said in this rostrum is a lie, and I do not allow it. What's a lie, the statements I've quoted in the press? What's a lie, the communist minister's statements? What's a lie, that Royal Decree-Law 5/2021 doesn't come? That Royal Decree-Law 6/2021 is exclusive? What's a lie, Sanchez's lies about the dishes? Is it a lie that the budgets are signed by ETA's heirs? What's a lie? I encourage you to be honest because in politics it's not all worth it. Bad omens? No, don't point me out, if it's written and in the end we can pull the hemerotec and confirm that everything I've said is true. The bad wishes, I'm sorry, but it's the reality of Spain and, if not, listen to the sector you represent. He spoke in his speech of the great agreement reached with the transporters. Do you know that the Association of Road Transport Entrepreneurs also feels abandoned because it turns out that if the aid does not reach it, almost a third will close? The Minister said that tourism is a priority sector. Well, prove it to me, because nice words don't pay bills. He says there are three important factors in the tourism sector, and I agree with the professionalism of the sector. Yes, a sector from which I come, of which I feel very honored and which, moreover, is thanks to the commitment, the work and the effort of the tourism sector for what we will go forward, not for you or your lies. He talked about the COVID certificate. What certificate? That one who divides and confronts the Spaniards? Is that one about rights and freedoms? That even the People's Party imposes on us in Andalusia? Is that your model of health and the model to protect the Spaniards? Minister, I've had a lot of meetings with the sector, so many of them all agree that she's a lousy minister, apart from her beautiful words. He said the extension of the ICOs until June 30, 2022 is a success. But how are they going to pay from June if it turns out that the reservations of the months of April, May and June, which were key to the tourism sector, are being cancelled? Do you think it gives them certainty that the extension is until June 30th? No, they live in distress because they don't know how to pay the bills. Minister, who lies to you, I do not know whether by ignorance or by pure evil, and in the face of your lies always - I insist, always - I will go up to this rostrum with the truth, as all VOX Members do. And in the face of their hatred we will continue to ascend to this rostrum with love, with love for our homeland, with love for everything we defend, with love for freedom, with love for order and law, with love for the family, with much love for their hatred. Minister, we are more and more every day; their lies, the lies of this Socialcommunist Government, supported by the enemies of the nation, are less and less sustained every day. So to the deputies of VOX, to our elected and organic offices I send a message of hope: they are not alone, every day we are more. And we find ourselves so strongly that we will continue to fight and say loud and clear all lies and all their evils. It ended with a message of hope, because we will continue to work for all Spaniards in the face of their attacks. I end up reminding all the ladies and gentlemen that I have been listening for a whole year: ultraright!, fascists!, extreme right!, homophobic!, sexist! No, we are people, we are a social, cultural, patriotic and economic movement that we have come to uncover their lies. We have come to put an end to the welfare of politicians, we have come to put an end to partisan interests that nullify the nation's interest and we have come to defend women and men. And even if they try to corner themselves by telling us 'extreme right', as I heard here yesterday, or talking about Franco - as Mr Zaragoza always does that should change his speech - even if they keep lying, even if they try to corner themselves, they won't get it. They are not going to get it because that left and right is obsolete, now there are many Socialist Party voters and many Podemos voters who trust us because we are the real and only alternative. So get ready for the new year because we're going to keep working every day of our lives with a lot of strength defending the Spaniards. And now to see what lie I'm surprised at. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, some of them on the floor]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-22-CD211222.u132	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] To conclude the debate, I have the floor on behalf of the Government, the Minister for Industry, Trade and Tourism.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-22-CD211222.u133	Thank you, President. Mrs. Rueda, you come up to this rostrum to tell your truth, your truth. And with regard to the left-wing voters they have made it very clear, Mrs Rueda, in Chile. If you want, we apply Chile's recipes to Spain. Since the beginning of the pandemic, your parliamentary group has contributed absolutely nothing to the fight against the pandemic and to the recovery of the tourism sector. You have always acted against the general interest. Moreover, they have taken advantage of the crisis to make a policy of burned land totally lacking rigour, scientific solvency and away from all European governments. The State Vaccination Strategy has been recognized by both the President of the European Commission and the Director of the World Health Organization in Europe, who has agreed with the Government of Spain to document the practical bases that serve as an example for the rest of Europe and the world. Mrs Rueda, you have acted in constant confrontation with the government rather than working to defeat our common enemy, which is nothing but the coronavirus, and to protect our productive fabric and employment. But let us go to the bottom, Mrs Rueda, what are your proposals to get out of the health and economic crisis. They ask us for more aid and vote against the most important when we bring them to this Parliament for validation. They are not a party with experience in the Government and that is evident in their positions. They have voted against protecting the employment of millions of Spaniards; they have voted against making employment regulation files more flexible; they have voted against the extraordinary benefit for the cessation of self-employment; they have also voted against mortgage moratoriums; the guarantee of supplies of electricity, water or gas; or the raising of the minimum wage. That is right, Your Honor, you want to get out of the crisis with less aid for workers in the tourism sector. What we do know is that your party has contributed absolutely nothing to the fight against the pandemic. What we do know is that his party's priority is not to fight the pandemic, but to constantly confront the government and dispute the right-wing hegemony of the People's Party. Every Wednesday you turn this plenary into a particular battlefield. When such important issues as the flexibility of ERTs come, the extraordinary benefit for self-employed workers, your parliamentary group, Your Honor, votes against in an exercise of irresponsibility that will remain for history. All the actions of the Government have allowed us to protect a solid base of economic business fabric, cushioning the negative impact of the pandemic, avoiding deeper and more permanent structural effects that could have put the recovery at risk. The proof we are seeing is the extraordinary recovery of employment data from the tourism sector. Vaccination and European funds are now our top priority. That is why we are also continuing to support, Your Honor, and protecting businesses and workers in the sectors most affected by the crisis. The citizens are asking us, Your Honor, to deal with the urgency, the importance, that we deal with their problems. I'm done, Mrs. Rueda. The evolution of the pandemic still forces us to remain very alert to the changes and needs of our productive fabric and to make decisions as effectively as possible. As we have done so far, Your Honor, we will continue to value and defend the tourism sector, which has given an example of professionalism and strength in the worst moments of the pandemic. Mrs Rueda, if you want to provide solutions, every week I vote in favour of the proposals that this government brings, because you will certainly be protecting that tourism sector that you so much defend. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-22-CD211222.u134	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much. - the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress, on the constitutional observance of the Government's legislative agenda. [[File number 172/000163]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-22-CD211222.u135	The People's Parliamentary Group's urgent inquiry into the constitutional observance of the Government's legislative agenda was then held at the Congress. Mrs. Gamarra Ruiz-Clavijo has the floor for her defence.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-22-CD211222.u136	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President, Relations with the Courts and Democratic Memory, the truth is that, in the light of your brief but aggravate political execution as a minister, I must confess to you that I have had serious doubts about having to prepare the scope of this inquiry because, in just twelve minutes and in the light of the abuses that this Government has already brought, and especially under your responsibility, it requires us to gloss everything as a counterclock before, as I said, the unquantifiable abuses both to the law, to justice, to the division of powers and to the rule of law. All this without talking about the constant trampling on Parliament's control and on the rights and freedoms of the Spaniards. This is not subjective assessments of the main opposition party, but it is absolutely objective in view of the Constitutional rulings that have already been issued since you became a minister. Therefore, here, in the face of the number of caccadas of his Government, what should be held would be an extraordinary debate, of broad hours of duration, which would allow us to delve into each and every one of these aspects; but we would certainly find the veto of the Government that would prevent, as it cannot otherwise be, this debate from being put into practice. As you are well aware, the powers of the Courts and therefore this House are the control of the Government of their action and also the exercise of legislative power and the approval of budgets. But as the legislature progresses, we see how rapidly the state of decomposition of the Government and the state of decomposition of the State itself by the action of the Government is progressing. It would be frankly curious if it weren't for the danger in this authoritarian drift. You are leaving a path of illegalities, abuse of power, anti-democratic practices and authoritarian impulses. These are you and this is the balance sheet of your management. What they are demonstrating over and over again is an aversion to the institutions created for the democratic control of the Executive, which are not anecdotes or isolated episodes, but a constant in their way of governing. This does not surprise us at all, because this legislature began with some phrases from the President of the Government that became genuine declarations of intent on what has been going on in the next two and a half years. Pedro Sánchez said: 'I am the president of the government and I will do what I want in the House'. Done and done. In this sentence is the road map since the inauguration of the President of the Government, the anti-democratic and authoritarian talent and a very serious constant attack on the separation of powers, which is the fundamental principle of our democratic system. In short, the search for maximum powers with minimum controls, and to this road map is to which all their actions respond over and over again. Behind this lies the discrediting of our constitutional system and, thereby, the weakening of our democratic quality. As I was saying, let's get to the bottom of it, because the stress of time will obviously force me to be quite quick. Let's talk about control of government action. The first and greatest violation that has occurred under your responsibility: the states of alarm. Two states of alarm and the two declared unconstitutional by the Constitutional Court. In any other country in Europe the minister responsible for these alarm states, which is you, would have resigned; in this country he has not even appeared. [[Applauds]] He has not given even a single answer to why the rights and freedoms of the Spaniards were trampled, stealing the control of this House over those states that are constitutionally exceptional. The second is the debate on the state of the nation. It has been nearly three years and this debate on the state of the nation has not yet taken place. They tell us that next year, but, Minister, we all know each other around here. Can you tell us if it's January? Or in the month of December? Because the same thing you advance the elections and ends this legislature without a debate on the state of the nation. Obviously, when we stand before trileros, we want to be concrete here today when it is going to happen. The third aspect is transparency and access to information, ultimately accountability, which is part of the control of the Government's action to be carried out by this House. Do you think it can be done when the reports, for example, of the Council of State, are hidden? That's part of your way of acting. Do you think it can be done when they do not submit the reports that the opposition asks the government? Specifically, the reports of pardons; and I will stop in these files. You have come to claim data protection - data protection! - so that this House cannot control the Executive. Obviously, when you have resolved and agreed to pardons contrary to justice, equity and the public interest, it is logical that you do not want the files to come to this House, but it is regrettable that political control has to be carried out by the main opposition party, either through the courts, or by filing an amparo application with the Constitutional Court for us to have these files handed over to us and forwarded to us. We can also tell you about the large number of requests for information that we have registered and that have not received any kind of response. More than five hundred requests for information are still waiting for your ministry, the Ministry of Relations with the Courts, to send that information to this House so that they can be monitored; they are more than 50% of the requests that this parliamentary group has recently recorded. If this is in a small way how you prevent the opposition from controlling political action, we can continue to make progress on the second of our responsibilities: the legislative power that this House has. Here we meet again exactly the same road map, the same modus operandi. For what? To have maximum powers with minimum controls. The main instrument you have found is quite old already: the use of the royal decree-law; whether or not there is an urgent need for Spanish society, because all that matters is the urgent need of your government for anti-democratic features to continue to seize powers without controls. Since you came to the government it has been one hundred and ten, the world record of royal decrees by a government, and sixty-nine in this legislature alone. [[Mrs. Spain Queen: What barbarity!-Rumors]] Second of the questions to slow down or hinder our legislative power: if you get ratification conditional upon your processing as draft laws, nothing happens, because what you will do will be to paralyse the processing as draft laws. I'll give you an example, just one. I'm sure they fooled many parties to get the support and ratification of the famous royal decree of European funds; the one who supported VOX, whom you call ultra-right, but who likes your support if it's to take forward government issues to ensure obscurantism. Well, thirty-six requests for extension, thirty-six! [[Applauds]] With this pace the legislature will end, the royal decree will be the one that has governed these European funds and will therefore automatically become legislation without the need for this House to have been able to carry out its work. But they don't stay there. Third system: why process a bill if I can pass a bill with my majority government? For what? Again, to steal the legislative power of this House. What do you get out of this? To escape a series of controls, for example, from the Council of State or from the competent ministries themselves. One example: the Law of euthanasia. There was neither a single report, nor a single report from the Ministry of Health of the Ministry of Justice, nor a single appearance in this House so that it could be legislated with the democratic quality that this society deserves. But let us continue to make progress on how they hinder the legislative power of the House. Another instrument: the veto of the Government. The veto on the initiatives of opposition parties, of the proposals of law. Have or have no economic impact, you will take it out of your sleeve to avoid its processing. I would like to set the example of European funds again. You have vetoed an independent authority that would be backing a management with guarantees, but, of course, that does not interest a government that wants maximum powers to do with these funds what it really wants, even if that depends on the recovery of our country. [[Applauds]] And, Minister, a single doubt on the exercise of the Government's veto which is yours. What have the hairdressers and hairdressers of this country done to them? Because no one can understand that, over and over again, that amendment is being vetoed so that it cannot be voted on and come forward. In addition, you know that in this case the amendment would have the vote in favour of the parliamentary majority and, therefore, you are not only vetoing the opposition. This has never been seen in a banana republic, but in this government it has! And it was you who also carried out this reprehensible tactic. [[Applauds]] Another system with which the legislative power of the House is hampered: does this House approve non-law proposals from opposition parties? Well, nothing happens either, because the government won't do it. You have here a collection of non-legislative propositions at the request of the People's Parliamentary Group that are still waiting. Can you tell us today if you're willing to comply? Yes or no? Because this is the key to democratic quality in our country. But let's keep moving forward: the independent bodies. If Mr Sánchez wants maximum powers with minimum controls, of course the independent bodies have to become dependent. And again we find you as a cornerstone in this dynamic. From the CIS, what are we going to tell him? It's absolutely up to you. Also the Office of the Attorney-General of the State. But this is the way in which you want to move forward, and that is why the question is clear: will you follow the conclusions of the Committee on Democratic Quality in order to turn the independent bodies into dependent bodies and, from there, to avoid any obstacles to their management? This is the path you have entered, this is the drift. One last thought, Minister. You have worked hard in the law of democratic memory; all this to rewrite our history and even end the Amnesty Law. But I ask him: why does he devote his time to that rather than to a law of pandemics, which is what this country needs? [[Several ladies and gentlemen: Very well!-Applause]] Why? Because you use the rule of law alone and exclusively to end up changing our rule of law. You're in the end a government...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-22-CD211222.u137	You have to finish, Mrs. Gamarra.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-22-CD211222.u138	Yes, Your Honor, I'm finishing up. They are a government that wants to transform liberal democracy into liberal democracy from within. But they don't have an alibi, because the evidence is there. I hope you will explain today why you are using each and every one of these instruments over and over again. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-22-CD211222.u139	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much. Then I have the floor, on behalf of the Government, the Minister for the Presidency, Relations with the Courts and Democratic Memory.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-22-CD211222.u140	Good morning, Madam President. [[The lady]] Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs. Gamarra, good morning. You said this morning in this House that you do not know any Spaniards who have received aid as a result of the pandemic; you said that today in this House. I do not know which social circles you are moving in; of course among privileged people who do not need any help, because real Spain, Spain that needs help, has had them from the Government of Spain. [[Several ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group, making negative signs: No, no!-Rumors.-Applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-22-CD211222.u141	Silence, ladies and gentlemen. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-22-CD211222.u142	See, 3.6 million Spaniards have benefited from ERTE -3.6 million Spaniards -; 1.4 million self-employed have received a cessation benefit -1.4 million self-employed -; 1.2 million Spaniards are beneficiaries of the thermal social bonus for people who have difficulty paying the bill for electricity and gas -1.2 million Spaniards - and 619 000 companies have received ICO aid, 619 000 companies. Therefore, Mrs Gamarra, I beg you, please, do not lie brazenly, without reddening, because what you do in the end is to put this House at the feet of the horses. And not only that, but your leader, Mr. Married, today said that unemployment is out of the question, he said it in this House. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-22-CD211222.u143	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-22-CD211222.u144	Well, 20 million occupied, the largest historical figure of occupied in Spain and nine consecutive months of employment growth. [[Applauds]] Is that what you call an open stop? This is not a debate between two different political positions, it is a debate between the truth and the lie, between the data and the lie to which you are embraced. [[protests]] [[Mr. De Olano Vela: What a spark you have!- Rumors.-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-22-CD211222.u145	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-22-CD211222.u146	I will answer the question you have asked in writing and also the question you have developed in this rostrum. The observance of the Constitution in our case is unquestionable. I remind you of Article 9.2 of the Constitution, which states: 'It is up to the public authorities to promote the conditions for the freedom and equality of the individual and of the groups in which he or she is integrated to be real and effective; to remove obstacles preventing or hindering his or her fullness and to facilitate the participation of all citizens in political, economic, cultural and social life'. That is what we do from the Government and is the identity of the progressive Government: freedom, solidarity, justice and the welfare state. That is what we do every day from the Government, and those are the priorities of our Government in our political action. Freedom and equality lead to social justice and territorial cohesion. We are the first government of democracy that has put population challenge policies as a State priority - the first - and we are a government that works for social justice. I can give you dozens of examples: minimum living income, rising minimum wage and a multitude of laws that we pass every day; certainly not with you, because you are neither in social justice nor expected. [[Applauds]] And we also work every day to remove the obstacles we have to achieve these goals; indeed, obstacles such as poverty, such as machismo or hatred, those signs of identity of their right-wing partners who look back on them all the time. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, of all the parties represented in this Chamber, the Socialist Party is the only one that signed and approved the 1978 Constitution and that makes us have a broad view of constitutionalism. In other words, we know that the Spanish Constitution is everyone's, welcomes everyone and integrates everyone and, therefore, we never, under any circumstances, claim that the Constitution is no one's monopoly or try to exclude anyone with the application of the Constitution. Our constitutionalism is not a medal we try to put ourselves in the lapel, but it is an attitude and a commitment to work for the common good and to make it effective whatever the sign of the times. That is why we are talking about a living constitutionalism, which has vigor and which also has force, and a text that the Spanish society of the twenty-first century is able to recognize as an effective instrument to achieve better rates of quality of life, freedom and solidarity. That is why the President of the Government, Pedro Sánchez - who you mention so much because he wins the elections all the time - has said that the Constitution is the road map of the progressive government. And indeed it is, because for us to be constitutionalist it is to ensure public education, that vocational training is a quality element in our labour system, that we have a decent pension and that there is a minimum living income. That is being constitutional for this progressive government. It is also important to protect the health, public health and mental health of people suffering from diseases. It is also constitutionalist to have the right to a dignified death or to renew, as we have recently done with you, the State Pact against Gender Violence. We are also constitutionalists when we apply the articles in our Magna Charter that speak of environmental protection. We have adopted a climate change law with its vote against and we have adopted policies such as the Green Hydrogen PART, which they are doing to get more than EUR 16 billion invested to create 280,000 jobs. [[Several ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress: No!]] Yesterday, in the Council of Ministers, we adopted a royal decree-law on the promotion of electricity and self-consumption. As far as environmental protection is concerned, we are in exactly the opposite of what you were doing, because do you know what we had to do yesterday in the Council of Ministers? We had to apply the Contingency Fund to pay 1907 million euros as a result of a Supreme Court ruling that annulled its real energy decrees. That's yours, gentlemen of the People's Party. [[Applauds]] All this constitutionalism that I speak of is reflected in our Magna Charter when it speaks of us as a social and democratic state of law. A social state to support and care for people who have the greatest difficulties, workers, middle classes, self-employed people and businesses. But we also have to protect our democratic system, of course, because taking care of democracy is an obligation of all and also of the opposition, even if it does not seem so sometimes. It costs you. You have voted against the general state budgets which are going to inject EUR 27 billion of European funds into the Spanish economy; by the way, by randomly voting on amendments, because you vote one thing and say the opposite. If you are now in favour of the linguistic and multicultural richness of our country, welcome, because that is also constitutionalism. [[Applauds]] You have also voted for the vocational training law, which seeks to be high-quality and well-paid jobs; you have voted against the Food Chain Act, which seeks to ensure that farmers and farmers have a fair price for their work; and you are opposed to changing Article 49 of the Constitution to replace the word 'diminished' with the term 'persons with disabilities' - among other changes - to promote the rights of these people. When I say that you are opposed, I do not mean you, Mrs Gamarra, because you in a public interview said that you are in favour of changing Article 49 of the Constitution. Why don't you do it then? Who's against inside your party? Do you also have a crisis in this and do you not know what opinion the People's Party has? Do you want to continue calling people with disabilities 'diminished'? Do you want some? Yes or no? Yes or no? [[Rumors]] Because you in an interview say no, but your party votes against. All right, you guys, come to an agreement, please. Let us also talk about complying with the Constitution, because the Constitution must comply with it from the first article to the last. You don't have to do it when you like it and not do it when you don't like it. We have been more than three years behind in the renewal of the General Council of the Judiciary and you, clear and without any kind of complex, say that you do not comply with the law because you do not like it and want to change it. Is that a democratic attitude? Is it a democratic attitude not to comply with the law? Is it a democratic attitude not to comply with the Constitution? Because you have to fulfill it in its entirety. I do not think you are aware of the loss of credibility for your party and for the leadership of your party not to comply with the Constitution in its own terms and not to renew the General Council of the Judiciary anymore. I do not think they are aware of the loss of credibility that this entails, because prestige of the governing body of judges and prestige of the judiciary is good for democracy and good for the rule of law. I cannot believe - or I find it hard to believe - that you do not want to prestige the governing body of the judges and, therefore, the judiciary; I cannot believe it. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I ask you once again to renew as soon as possible the General Council of the Judiciary, to end the blockade by submitting to the Judiciary and to comply with the Constitution, without excuses. You're going three years late. Its constitutionalism is of stone cardboard and is a shame. It seems that you want Spain to go badly so that you can go well. But, look where, Spain is going to be fine and you're going to be sick. That is the result of his policy. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-22-CD211222.u147	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-22-CD211222.u148	And of so much proclaiming the crisis, in sin they carry penance: the crisis has reached, to his party, the People's Party. That is the crisis that the Spaniards are seeing every day. [[Rumors.-Applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-22-CD211222.u149	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-22-CD211222.u150	We, as a Government, are following our own: to boost economic policies, to ensure economic growth, to have a fair recovery and to approve as soon as possible the General Budgets of the State, which will be adopted next week with thirteen different political forces supporting them. Because what we have to do in this House, which represents popular sovereignty, is to reach agreements, understand each other and achieve points of balance so that our country is a better, more habitable country. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-22-CD211222.u151	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-22-CD211222.u152	Ladies and gentlemen, today we have 20 million occupied. I know you don't like it, but I'll remind you. We are the first country in the European Union to receive funds from the European Commission as a result of the recovery plan; the first, because we have already completed fifty-two milestones, EUR 10 billion. You say we're late. I believe that it is you who are quite behind, because you continue to talk about the same things that fifteen years ago and do not recognize Spain's success: it is the first country to receive European funds, the first. Are you happy? I'm afraid not. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-22-CD211222.u153	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thanks to the services of the House. I give the floor to Mrs. Gamarra Ruiz-Clavijo.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-22-CD211222.u154	Minister, I have two options. I don't know if you know that in an inquiry questioning the opposition and you what you should have done was answer. I do not know whether it is due to your authoritarian tics, as all your government action has shown in recent months, or whether you already know that you will soon be questioning and that you will be answering what is already the main political force in this country, the People's Party. [[Applauds]] I believe that you have already begun to prove how the People's Party is being questioned. Let's hope I can live it again soon. Lying. But are you going to talk about lies? But, let's see, do you think any Spaniard believes any member of this government? If they receive every month the bill for the light and the last thing they heard yesterday is that, if they subtract what has gone up, they are paying the same, which is like calling people - forgive me - idiot. Man, for God's sake! [[Applauds]] I would recommend that you listen a little more in the control session, unless you are lying and manipulating, because I have referred to the European funds, and you know it. I'll call him back. I do not know if you know anyone who has received a single euro from European funds. I don't. [[Several ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group: No one, no one!-Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-22-CD211222.u155	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-22-CD211222.u156	Some must be, but quite few, because you talk a lot about authorized funds and committed amounts but no amounts executed, which are the ones that eventually reach people. There are the self-employed and the SMEs still waiting for the European funds. [[Mrs. Spain Queen: Very well!-Rumors]] You also tell us about unemployment. Why does the figure of 20 million not mean that the public employment they have incorporated, or the ERTEs, or the self-employed are still in the process of ceasing their activities? [[Applauds]] You keep them and then you tell me. Another plot by the Socialist Party. On unemployment, read the OECD and you will know what we think. Speaking of constitutionalism, may you say that you can already be considered the collector of Constitutional Court judgments in relation to your management! And when you have Constitutional Court rulings, obviously what you have violated is the Constitution. That's you. I believe that you can end your term of office by having your own Aranzadi, that of this government. [[Laughter]] At the pace of trampling on the freedoms and rights of the Spaniards, it clearly leads that way. He's told us a lot about freedom and equality. Minister, also freedom of education and language in Catalonia? Because with their silence - and therefore with their satisfaction - freedoms are also being trampled on during this legislature. That's the most flagrant case, so I think they'd have to face shame by coming here to give lessons right now when this is happening and they're doing absolutely nothing. But he also wanted to talk about the social and democratic rule of law. Yeah, social. And you're telling us about the minimum living income? The great lie of the Socialist Party and the Communists? Of course I know real Spain. Do you know how many families are waiting for the minimum living income that you guaranteed them and that does not reach them? And how many families have not yet received the social bonus because you have not paid the Autonomous Communities? That's his government. That's real social policy. But they no longer deceive anyone at all, Minister. In addition, let's talk about separation of powers, because, yes, you were talking about separation of powers and judicial power. But if this is a government that one day attacks the judiciary and the separation of powers! Do you want me to tell you about the individual attacks of your fellow ministers on the judiciary? And we haven't heard much about this. Do you share that judges prevail when sentences affect members of Podemos? Because that has been said by members of the government, the government! That is you, the government, and you say absolutely nothing. So about prestige of the judiciary, you'd have a lot to say if you stopped trampling on it, which I think is the way. Obviously, when there are statements from a president of the government who says: 'Who is the prosecutor's office? Whose?', it is clear what the will of that Government and of that President is. And it's not about respecting the separation of powers. But let's talk about the General Council of the Judiciary and that law. Why don't you want to reform it? Because you're the one who said - and we all remember - that judges can't choose judges. Oh, my God! But this is not what the People's Party is asking for, it is what the European institutions are asking for, and they are seeking ways of ensuring greater independence from the judiciary. But when you form a government and only a government - and that is sanchism, which wants maximum power with minimal controls - what you aspire to is to be the only power and to agglutinate around the executive power, the legislative and the judiciary. And in fact, through pardon and through prison politics you are also agglutinating the judiciary. [[Applauds]] And that to govern with those partners that allow me, Minister, but they do not prestige the constitutional order at all. So in order to give us some lesson the first thing you would have to do to break all your agreements with Bildu and Esquerra, because behind them are the attempts to break the constitutional order that we have already suffered in this country. And yes, the social and democratic rule of law is what resisted it, but you have taken another derivative, a rather dangerous derivative. But I repeat,...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-22-CD211222.u157	Mrs. Gamarra, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-22-CD211222.u158	...just lessons, Minister. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-22-CD211222.u159	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thanks to the services of the House. To conclude the debate, I have the floor, on behalf of the Government, the Minister for the Presidency, Relations with the Courts and Democratic Memory.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-22-CD211222.u160	Thank you very much, Madam President. I see, Mrs Gamarra, that you rectify, that you acknowledge that there are more than seven million Spaniards who have received aid. Welcome to reality, that seven million Spaniards have received aid because they suffered the economic and social consequences of the pandemic; seven million Spaniards to whom the government helped and who are not in their circle of confidence. [[applause]] On European funds - I repeat -, the first country in Europe that has fulfilled the milestones of the European Commission and that will receive funds, the first, by contrast, in implementation, and you continue to preach the opposite reality. Why do they do it? Why are they missing the truth? Why are they lying? Spain is working well with European funds; the EUR 140 billion that will come to Spain was achieved thanks, among others, to the leadership of President Pedro Sánchez. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] Why do you still deny reality? They will be a historic opportunity for Spain, to reindustrialise Spain, to turn Spain that we know into a better, greener, more digital Spain with more social and territorial cohesion. I, Mrs. Gamarra, ladies and gentlemen, return to the classic. Are we in recovery or are we in crisis, as your leader says? Because there are 20 million occupied, 20 million occupied. You don't get embarrased in the small letter missing the truth again. It is a growth in all the private productive sectors of the country, in all, without exception, and you lack the truth trying to confuse with the small letter. Who are you confusing? Who? The reality is that those 20 million occupied are a record, historic figure in our country, never, ever achieved, in all sectors. You continue to embrace the lie, we will continue to manage reality and manage Spain so that our country is a better country. [[Applauds]] Look, you, clearly - another classic - always negative never positive. [[Laughter]] Always negative. Even its own voters do not understand its speech of the apocalypse, they do not understand it, because reality is a reality in which there is already economic growth, a situation that clearly has uncertainties and clearly that it is volatile. We are still in a pandemic, we are in the sixth wave, but we are having a solid economic growth that, unlike when you ruled, we are going to accompany it with social rights, because from this crisis we came out strengthening the welfare state and not cutting, as you did, the welfare state. We are going to emerge from this crisis with more social cohesion. [[Rumors]] I make two very simple proposals. You renew the General Council of the Judiciary by complying with the Constitution and the law. They comply with the Constitution and the law, the law that comes from a 2001 state pact, with an absolute majority government of the People's Party. A law that has served for thirty-five years to renew the General Council with different majorities in this House. You don't like this law now. Well, democracy is that the law is enforced and the Constitution, too, and you in the People's Party are not above either the law or the Constitution. Fill it up! [[Applauds]] The second proposal I make to you is that we amend article 49 of the Constitution, that your statements, Mrs Gamarra, in a public interview make them a reality and that we start to call people with disabilities that way and start to promote the rights of people with disabilities. Who in the People's Party, if not you, spokeswoman, is against amending Article 49 of the Constitution? Who in the People's Party wants to keep calling disabled people down? Who? I would love to know this answer because we would know which people make it impossible. I ask you very basic things that in an advanced democracy like ours should not be asked from this rostrum. First, let them work for Spain not putting sticks in the wheel to the work we do in Europe and beyond our borders. [[Rumors]] Secondly, that you comply with the Constitution. You are a party of government that I am sure you aspire to be and you have to comply with the Constitution. Thirdly, a little civicism and education and, by the way, do not speak when I am speaking from this rostrum. [[Applauds]] And fourth, let him tell some truth. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-22-CD211222.u161	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-22-CD211222.u162	Occasionally, though, but let them tell some truth. I ask you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, not to throw yourselves into the mountain, that on the mountain there is already the far right, that this space is already occupied, that you be a liberal, conservative party, meridian of center and deeply democratic. That's what I'm asking you, don't go to the far right's hand. Finally, he wished them Merry Christmas and that next year the Magi would bring them something they needed: a project for Spain. Thank you. [[Applauds]] - the Basque Parliamentary Group, on the non-existence of humanitarian corridors to safeguard the fundamental rights of migrant persons in transit within the borders of the European Union. [[EAJ-PNV]] [[File number 172/000156]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-22-CD211222.u163	We continue with the urgent call by the Basque Parliamentary Group on the lack of humanitarian corridors to safeguard the fundamental rights of migrants in transit within the borders of the European Union. [[EAJ-PNV]] [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For your defence, Mr Barandiaran Benito has the floor. [[Rumors]] Quiet, please. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-22-CD211222.u164	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, Madam President. A few days ago, on 1 December, in a monitoring session, the Minister of the Interior, on behalf of the Government, appeared to answer a parliamentary question on how the Government could prevent migrants from dying in their transit to Europe. That question was detonating, like this inquiry, that on 20 November the corpse of a young man of thirty-eight years old, originally from Côte d'Ivoire, who had already acceded to the State, since he had a health certificate issued in Andalusia; he was heading for another European destination with a life plan, but he stumbled on his way to a border which, in principle, was supposed to be non-existent, and which truncated his life. Only in the Bidasoa River are three people who have died this year and seven on both sides of the fictitious border that exists and that divides the Basques, and in all cases they were young people who came from African countries and who were still in transit to a European country trying to overcome barriers that are imposed on them more for formal reasons than for material reasons, which leads them to put their lives at risk, both crossing a river and a canal as well as fences of thorns or whatever, but in any case they are exposed to certain policies that endanger or truncate not only their life plan, but possibly the guarantee of their fundamental rights. In that reply, the Minister, however, - I must admit - even though in some way justifying, from the point of view of the Ministry of the Interior, that the limitation measures were covered by Articles 25 to 27 of the Schengen Agreement, he also had words that pleased me. I was going to say that, being freedom of movement one of the fundamental pillars of the European Union - textually - we have the necessary and precise measures to protect the external borders of the European Union and to guarantee freedom of movement. Well, Minister, something fails when, as a society, the values of freedom, solidarity and equality, and within the European Union, freedom of movement, must inspire these actions and, however, those who protect and govern this public action are those who, by action or omission, lead citizens - and it is the same as they are from third countries - to put their lives at risk not only unnecessarily but, possibly, even irregularly. We believe that it is unacceptable that, under more or less formal excuses, but which are not material in our view, policies based on the limitation of fundamental rights are accepted. It is unacceptable that any action based on discrimination on grounds of race, colour, origin or even religion should be internalized in any public institution or public force and, as the Minister of the Interior himself said, should be applied where there are alternative measures which are respectful of that system of values. Establishing internal controls within the European Union is not simply a matter of justification; there must be material reasons for doing so. That is, if when they are done on the basis of values or for reasons that are false, we believe that they are a mistake and, in this case, a horror. A mistake, because the pretensions of xenophobic and totalitarian ideologies can never be met with measures that do not solve or prevent the movement of people willing to almost everything to seek a better future. But they are also a horror because we find it unacceptable that any public action should be based on the violation of fundamental values. These controls, Minister, kill people, but they make us worse. Any measure that is sustained in putting life at risk and the violation of human rights corrupts us both as a society and as individuals. In this sense, it allows me to tell you - and I am entering a little more on this - that there is a lack of political resolve and courage to confront with humanity and solidarity xenophobia and anti-Europeanism, because in some States there is still selfishness and values, and in other countries of the European Union there is a lack of political leadership and courage to unleash the refugee crisis. [[The lady]] That is why the possibility of directing this debate towards the European Pact on Migration and Asylum - although we are not going to do it completely - is not unbridled, because we are not pleased that the measures aimed only at limiting so-called legal and safe routes or others, such as those to boost Frontex's role as a border police officer, are more effective without effective control over respect for fundamental rights. We understand that these measures debilitate us, and it is not only our opinion, but also that of the European Court of Human Rights, because they place us outside the scope of the European adoption of fundamental rights. Yesterday, a non-legislative proposal was made to this Congress, at the initiative of several civil society organizations - Save the Children, Red Host, Intermón Oxfam, Doctors of the World and several others - with which my group shares some of the proposed measures. Many of the reasons for this critical assessment of the European Pact on Migration and Asylum are also one of the reasons for the existence of a clandestine internal migration network within the European Union. These organizations gave us some data: irregular arrivals in the European Union, which seem to be numerous, mark a historical minimum - they spoke of 1 million in 2015, 373,000 in 2016, 185 000 in 2017, 123000 in 2019 and 97 000 in 2020-, and, curiously, it contrasts with other data from the Government itself, in particular an instruction of 1 March from the Secretary of State for Immigration, which pointed out that in recent years there has been a strong increase of many people seeking international protection of asylum and reception -31 000 in 2017, 55 000 in 2018, 118 000 in 2019 and 88 000 in 2019 -, and that despite the COVID. This puts us on the threshold not only of the dimension of the problem, but also of its character, since from this data it follows that much of the classified irregular immigration has as its starting point, and above all of the transit to other European countries, the territory of the State, but it is not a journey of arrival. Moreover, this circuit - by calling it somehow - is still not only moving, but also increasing. These data are also confirmed by the reception network established by the Basque Government for migrants in transit in Euskadi. They attended 5800 in 2018, 4200 in 2019, 3500 in 2020, and this year 2021, until November 1, they had already attended to 7332, which means that there have been again - and, moreover, in increase - after the trip. We therefore urge you to conduct your Government in a certain direction and to reach agreements to prevent such inhumane conduct. Firstly, we understand the desirability of transmitting from the Spanish Government to the European authorities, in general, and to the French, in particular, the need to set up humanitarian corridors to prevent further tragedies at the internal borders and, in our case, in particular on the Bidasoa River, as well as to establish, where appropriate, control mechanisms - if such border control measures are necessary - so that their activity is compatible with the doctrine of the European Court of Human Rights, especially when - as has happened - indications of discriminatory treatment on grounds of race, colour, origin, identity or others that are inadmissible. Secondly, I would also like to call upon you to promote the role of local regions and institutions, not only in the design of such a tool, the corridor, but especially in the implementation of the new Pact on Migration and Asylum, which would facilitate bringing a solution closer and possibly more humanized to the problem. I would like to expand on this issue because, recently, in its reply to a parliamentary question that was asked in the European Parliament to Commissioner Ylva Johansson, who is responsible for internal affairs in the Community government and also for immigration, acknowledged - intercommissioned - that cities and regions are key partners for the Commission to implement the new Pact on Migration and Asylum, in particular in the area of integration. Well, Madam President, if they do, serve and integrate and care for immigrants are that governance plan, they should also be at the decision tables; and it happens, however, that the proposal of the new Pact on Migration and Asylum only quotes cities and regions when they refer to migration as a tool to capture talent. We understand, on the contrary, that it is necessary to boost their role in integration; that is, they must be taken into account in the Action Plan for 2021/2024 mentioned in the Pact on Migration and Asylum, in order to activate effective solidarity or to develop other alternative proposals. I quote one as an example, which is the so-called Share Network, in which they have been working close to fifteen European regions to support the objectives of the new Migration Pact. I have put it as an example because the Basque Government has led this platform, which is a platform of European regions that promotes this proposal which serves to spread immigration flows on the basis of income, unemployment and tax revenues, and on that basis we believe that work should be done. Well, Minister, this is a proposal that is not only proposed, but can be integrated into the European debate, especially for the sake of this transit, but also into the integration of these migrants, whose solution has not been integrated into the European Commission's decisions today. There is another aspect in which I would also like to insist - I say insist because it is not new - which is the scope of values. In the case of Basque society, statistics show that there is a high rate of tolerance for immigration. The latest report by the Basque Observatory for Immigration put the acceptance of immigrants generally at 65 points on a scale of 100, and only 10% of the population saw the arrival of immigrants as a problem, while three out of four understood that they should have the same rights as local citizens. We believe that another factor to focus on is education, education in values. Education in those values which are properly European - those of integration, those of solidarity and also freedom of movement - is being put at risk and in question by parties, and also by States, which at present have a clear anti-European sign. Education is the one that will lead us to that scenario where we can find citizens who can match the defence of their own interests with the possibility of sharing them with others who come from other places. That is also another issue on which we can focus on this issue. Immigration is also a matter of education, and we believe that it should be addressed. For the time being, Minister, these are the questions I wanted to raise with a small addition or colophon, and that is that at the time we wanted to raise this question in advance and we did not do so because Mr Escriva at that time could not. We understood that the prism of the Interior was not adequate, although Mr Marlaska's reply at the time to that question was adequate.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-22-CD211222.u165	Mr. Barandiaran, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-22-CD211222.u166	Yeah, I'm done. In this case, however, we believe that taking into account the European prism or the European plan, it is right to put it to you. We believe that this is a multidisciplinary, polyhedral problem, and that it must be addressed in a joint manner by the Government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-22-CD211222.u167	Thank you very much, Mr Barandiaran. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] The Minister for Foreign Affairs, the European Union and Cooperation then has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-22-CD211222.u168	Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. First of all, Your Honor, I agree with many of the things you said here today. Indeed, this is a very complex matter that escapes the department that I run and that has many levels: multilateral levels of the United Nations, the European Union, our bilateral international relations, an internal part of managing migration flows and an educational part. I will, of course, approach it with the approach from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, European Union and Cooperation. The Government is always active in the management of migratory flows - especially irregular flows, of course - with responsibility, but also with solidarity and humanity. Behind these migrants spend their lives looking for better opportunities for them, for their children and for their families, the lives of these men, women, children and girls, often dehumanize because they are left behind cold statistics, and there are stories of people who have seen their lives truncated just by looking for a new horizon. Its interpellation focuses, above all, on humanitarian corridors. This is a complex concept that advances in the United Nations, but the great difficulty of everything that you have raised here today is that we cannot do it alone, Spanish can not do it alone. We clearly need our European partners and the various countries of the world. Spain can make progress on a certain path, but you and your group know very well that in Brussels and in the various European capitals there are many governments that support diametrically opposed theses and without them we cannot really make progress. The humanitarian corridors currently leading the United Nations have been very clearly defined since Resolution 45/100 of 1990 as the routes that facilitate safe movement in situations of armed conflict, persecution or exposure to situations of external vulnerability. That's where Spain has always been, and it's still very recently. Spain understands and exercises its humanitarian commitment and has proved itself in Afghanistan, perhaps the largest humanitarian corridor in history: 100,000 people evacuated in a very short time. Spain offered its bases so that Afghan collaborators could transit from the United States, offered the base of Torrejón as a hub to transit the collaborators of the External Action service. And as a country, a country success! a country success! And so the President of the Commission, Ursula von der Leyen, said that Spain had been an example of the soul of Europe, a beautiful phrase that defines us all Spanish. We evacuated 2500 Afghan collaborators and their families to Afghanistan, and we have been the only country in the world – the only country in the world! – that on 11 and 12 October, already with Kabul Airport in the hands of the Taliban, made an operation in Afghanistan. I personally moved to Pakistan to help us, and they did. And I would like to congratulate all the people who participated in them: the State Security Forces and Corpses, the various ministries and, of course, the diplomats and the staff of the Foreign Service in Kabul and here, in the ministry I lead. Five years ago, another humanitarian corridor was made. This time it was in Syria, and Europe was once again an example of welcome. Europe did, but the Government of Spain at that time did not; at that time it welcomed 18 Syrians; 18 Syrians at that time against 2500 Afghan collaborators from Spain, people in danger and their families. I therefore believe that the commitment of Spain - the commitment of the current Government of Spain, also of the Autonomous Communities, also of the Basque Country, and I congratulate the Basque Government for this, as well as the other governments of the Autonomous Communities that have participated - has been demonstrated, because it has not only been to bring them, but that these 2500 people have been assigned to their new places of residence, are living in dignified conditions and receive indispensable support for their social and professional integration. The protection of refugees and displaced persons within and outside Europe is unquestionable for Spain. Our humanitarian action, aimed at refugees, displaced persons, minors, adults, persons with disabilities and women in vulnerable situations, is clear. We have participated in the I World Forum on Refugees and also in the Acnur Executive Committee. And if you see the latest report on indicators of compliance with the Global Compact on Refugees, which was presented on 14 and 15 December, Acnur has confirmed the tangible progress that Spain has made in this area with the current Government of Spain, to which I am a party. But if we go to the framework of the European Union, we find ourselves - you have said it and I agree; as I say, I agree with most of the things you have said, and the Government of Spain will endeavour to make progress - with which many are in diametrically opposed positions. But we will not fail to push forward the external dimension of migration, establishing partnerships - Spain is an example in this regard - with the main migrant partners, and this implies that with the other relevant ministries we are making progress on the Pact on Migration and Asylum proposed by the European Commission and we are analysing in depth the Schengen reform. The concept of a humanitarian corridor does not have an easy fit in the European Union and there is currently no majority to carry it out. This does not mean that we do not reject - and we put it this way both in Brussels and in our bilateral relations - those who, hiding behind the secondary movements, want to limit and curtail what is an achievement - probably, together with the euro, the great achievement of the European Union - which is the Schengen area, on whose integrity we will ensure at all times. And we will not allow an achievement - an achievement that I would call irrefutable - to be an involution under different phenomena; among them, an alleged control of secondary movements. For this reason, Spain, which is at the forefront of responsibility for migration and we fulfil our duty as European partners, also believes that solidarity must be present, and this implies support through the relocation of similar measures to other Member States other than the first-input Member States, on which all the weight and responsibility for managing irregular flows cannot fall. That is why we also argue that family criteria must be important when it comes to assigning responsibility for examining the various asylum applications in a Member State. Many of the people who arrive in Europe, logically, do not want to stay in the state to which they have come because they have relatives, contacts, links in other countries and it is normal that it is the final destination on which they rest. In the case you pointed out, that of the Basque Country, the tragic drowning of three people who were trying to swim through the Bidasoa or the passing of three people who were hit by a train when they were trying to get to France, of course we are going to take all the necessary measures within the European Union so that this does not happen and I am convinced that we can count on the good work of your parliamentary group - also in Brussels and Strasbourg - so that these ideas that we share will fall into the rest of the European political forces, although for some I do not have great hopes. Spain maintains an integral approach to migration policy, a clear responsibility for irregular migration flows, but also humanity and solidarity because we talk about human beings and we will continue to defend a fair sharing of the migration burden and asylum seekers. It cannot be only the states of first entry, as is the case in Spain, that must manage this irregular migratory flow. Migrants do not want to come to Spain, Italy or Greece, they want to come to Europe, and if the problem, the challenge, es-European, the answer has to be European. And, of course - of course - with our French neighbour we have raised this issue. I have done so in all the meetings I have had with my counterpart and it has been addressed at all the meetings; very recently, at the Montauban Summit, between the two presidents, last year, where, as you know, one of the things that has been raised - on a Spanish proposal, but quickly accepted by France - is a strategy of cross-border cooperation, in which the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country will be involved, like the rest of the autonomous cross-border communities, in order to manage all these phenomena, including migration issues, in the best possible way. We are also systematically putting on the table the need to reopen all border steps - from sixteen to ten - and we are working on this strategy so that there will be none, because Spain in the area of European borders, in the area of the Schengen area, defends - this government will always defend - the free movement within that area without any regression, without any step backwards, and the necessary respect for the limited, proportionate and last-minute nature when internal border controls are reintroduced in the EU. On this, Your Honor, I have been very clear on many occasions and will be here again today. All Schengen protocols establish the possibility of reintroducing border controls, but for a limited period of time and for certain reasons, and it is unacceptable - unacceptable - that the integrity of the Schengen area can be extended and, therefore, undermined. Our position is clear, the position of this Government is very clear. It is very clear in international matters - we are at the forefront of the United Nations migration pacts - and it is very clear in the European Union - we are at the forefront of advancing the Pact on Migration and Asylum, but always within that premise: responsibility yes, but solidarity and humanity too. And we are at the forefront of dialogue with our neighbours. With Portugal we already have a cross-border cooperation strategy and with France at the moment we are also finalising this strategy to ensure a solidarity, responsible and people-centred migration policy. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-22-CD211222.u169	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Barandiaran Benito has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-22-CD211222.u170	Good morning again, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Minister, you were speaking to me in your speech, and it is important that I should like to touch on two issues: one, that the corridor does not have an easy fit, and it is true in the light of the Treaty of Lisbon and the method of adopting certain agreements within the European Union - which, of course, must also be urged to change, also in other matters that we have discussed with this government - but, above all, that even if it does not have an easy fit in certain formulas, it does have it in others. [[The lady]] I have referred to one, which is interregional agreements, and not just interregional agreements, but to encourage the participation of regions and cities in shaping migration and asylum policies, because in some way when we talk about migration and asylum policies, when we talk about the problems that are created by this deregulated internal corridor in the deaths of people and in which many people suffer from the violation of their fundamental rights, what we are possibly talking about is the lack of administrative networks of compatibility, care and attention to those rights and the needs of those people who, as you have also said, are people who are going to continue to come to Europe and also those who are going to need what they say or not, whether they want or not certain countries who today are a remation in building this common space and also a remation in shaping this area of free movement when they are establishing mechanisms that are incompatible, as you have acknowledged, if they are extended or if they are also established in an unjustified way. Well, on that path I have quoted an example, the Share network, consisting of fifteen European regions and also led at the time by the lehendakari Urkullu, but there have also been others. The Lehendakari Urkullupreciously, as a result of the crisis on the Bidasoa River, and Jean-René Etchegaray, President of the Basque-Euskal Herri Elkargoa Community, a grouping of various administrative entities in the Basque-French country, jointly signed a declaration, and not only an institutional declaration expressing pain and concern at the deadly dramas of the death of seven migrants in their environment, but reaffirmed themselves in a determined commitment of respect and agreement on specific matters. Thus, they decided to set up a Pausa Centre initiated by the city of Bayona, with the support of the community of Iparralde and different associations, to facilitate a break in the migratory route, and another, the launch of the resource for the reception of migrants in transit Irún-Hilanderas, in collaboration with the Red Cross in Euskadi, and the establishment of an inter-institutional table. What I want to say to you, Minister, is that within the activity of the European Union there must be mechanisms to boost these initiatives, which must be supplemented by certain blockages at Community level as a result of rules which today absolutely - I know how to describe them - are alien to the reality which conforms to it and possibly alien to the will of the vast majority not only of European citizens, but of each and every one of the countries which conforms to it. Well, in that sense, the mechanisms for participation in decision-making can also be modelled and modulated so that other local and regional entities can participate, and the financing of certain funds that we have seen now, which also have to do with situations of extraordinary and serious need, which also have to do with the pandemic and the deterioration of the conditions under which they have been, can and should be driven by the European Union. That is the way we are asking the Government of Spain to encourage; that in general and, as far as we are concerned, in particular with France. Why? I am a frontier, I pass the Bidasoa border continuously and I see the reality of these controls, I see their inhumanity and I see the discriminatory nature of the actions that are contemplated by the security forces and bodies, in general French, I have to say. And that, Minister, should not only be understood as unacceptable, but also, at the moment and at the end of a certain electoral contest in France for the presidents, that may be exacerbated and that will cause pain again, and let us hope that no more victims. Minister, the corridors are necessary and there are alternative formulas for them as well. I do not think it is much to ask the Government to act in that direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-22-CD211222.u171	Thank you very much, Mr Barandiaran. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much. To conclude the debate, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, the European Union and Cooperation has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-22-CD211222.u172	Your Honor, I agree again with many of the things you have said, but there are also two things that we do not have to lose sight of and you know it perfectly. This is a very complex matter in which we are constantly mixing things. There are people who need our protection, the protection of Spain and the protection of Europe, and we will not fail them, they are those who need asylum and shelter; and then there are others who, because of dramatic circumstances on many occasions, are irregular migrants and their vocation is to return to their countries, not to stay with us. The second is that I can agree with you on most of the things you have said and I guarantee you, I told you in my first presentation, that the Spanish Government is not going to work, it is working for that, but looking at the European landscape. Certainly, some of those regions that you have mentioned would be willing to introduce these humanitarian corridors; the governments of their States, not, and in Brussels, around the Council table, feel like state governments. That is the great difficulty, but we are not going to stop looking for a European migration policy, and I am sure that your group in Brussels and Strasbourg will help us to do so; a European migration policy that is responsible, that is solidarity and that focuses everything on people. Humanity is also needed in migration policy, but this remains firm in managing irregular migration flows, in an approach based on the rights of each applicant for international protection. I would also like to point out that when we talk about people seeking international protection, we do not mix it with irregular migrants, even if the circumstances are equally dramatic on many occasions in both cases. We will always push the Pact on Migration and Asylum and any reform that goes in that direction, but we will also be very vigilant in ensuring the integrity of the Schengen area. In the migration crisis in Poland, Latvia and Lithuania, I myself in the Foreign Affairs Council of the European Union have expressed my solidarity with those countries, although on this occasion irregular migration flows are very far away, but they are still more unacceptable, because there are many countries - today on the border with Belarus, but tomorrow it could happen on the southern border of Europe - who want to make a political use of irregular migration flows and make genuine hybrid attacks; it is a threat to all of us. Therefore, this is an extremely complex matter on which we have to be very clear. Are we talking about international protection and asylum, talking about irregular migratory flows or talking about hybrid threats? Each requires a very different treatment and response. I was talking about the regions being able to participate, we are already on it. With Portugal we have signed a new treaty of friendship and cooperation a few weeks ago and, a very important part, we have established a strategy of cross-border cooperation, where it is precisely the autonomous cross-border communities, Galicia, Castile and León, and Extremadura, which are going to have, let us say, the most important part, and have been associated. You know perfectly well, because the Basque Country is - and is going to be even more - very closely linked to the whole development of this cross-border strategy, which is under way a new treaty of friendship and cooperation with France, since the Montauban Summit. It was a decision by the two presidents, President Sánchez and President Macron, and at the same time a joint decision by President Sánchez and President Macron was that cross-border cooperation strategy for many issues. And it took thought of people like you, exactly people like you, those for whom there is nothing more normal than making a life 30 kilometers to one side and 30 kilometers to another from one border - by putting a physical geographic framework - so that those people's lives are not seen with disruptions for things like COVID, for example. I assure you - I have no doubt - that the Spanish security forces and bodies always act proportionately, responsibly and with humanity, and we have demonstrated this in the case of Afghanistan, but also in other cases more distant or less known, as in Central America, where we are an integral part of the platform of the Regional Integral Framework for Protection and Solutions, or in the Venezuelan refugee crises -90 000 Venezuelans have achieved asylum status in Spain -, when Spain is needed, with this Government Spain says 'present' in humanitarian situations just as you define it. This Government's commitment and way of acting in the face of humanitarian crises always, and especially when it comes to people, I assure you that they will be guided by responsibility, solidarity, humanity and, above all, effectiveness. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-22-CD211222.u173	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much. - OF THE VOX PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, ON THE MEASURES TO BE TAKEN BY THE MINISTRY OF EQUALITY TO GUARANTEE THE EQUALITY OF SPAIN. [[File number 172/000161]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-22-CD211222.u174	Urgent inquiry by the VOX Parliamentary Group into the measures to be taken by the Ministry of Equality to ensure equality for Spaniards. For your defense, you have the floor, Mrs. Olona Choclán. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-22-CD211222.u175	With all due respect, Madam President. Minister, good morning. Article 14 of the Spanish Constitution: 'Spanish people are equal before the law, without any discrimination on grounds of birth, race, sex, religion, opinion or any other personal or social condition or circumstance'. The Spanish are the same, the Spanish are the same. This is the reality in Spain, recognized and guaranteed by our Spanish Constitution since 1978, since before, minister, that you and I were born. However, Spain was not always like this, and today I want to address especially the women of Spain so that we remember together. There was a time in Spain when the social, cultural, educational aspirations, the professional challenges of a woman were seen as a sort of almost comic extravagance that would surely pass with age. I will quote literally: 'The woman is vain, superficial, selfish, inferior to the man in head and heart. What would be the woman's if the man didn't love her? Load beast, nothing more.' The literal words of Sabino Arana, founder of the Basque Nationalist Party, who maintains a foundation in honour of his name and are his government partners. [[Applauds]] There was a time in Spain in which we socially could not access studies or practice a profession, such as men, because it was understood that our only dedication should be the upbringing of children or the care of our husbands. I do not speak of a time so distant in Spain that the inequality of rights between men and women made us truly inferior beings. 'The husband must protect the wife and this, obey the husband.' 'The wife is obliged to follow her husband wherever this surresidency is fixed.' These are just two examples of mandates contained in the Spanish Civil Code. And do your lordships know when they retired? Do you know, especially the younger women, when these legal mandates that existed in Spain were reformed? In 1975, a year in which women also cease to need the permission of our husbands to trade or to open an account in the bank, 1975. I ask the younger women especially that you speak with your mothers and with your grandmothers, to you who, like me or as the Minister of Equality, have already been born into a regime in which the equality of all Spaniards is recognized and guaranteed. But in order to achieve that equality, a great struggle has been necessary and in the conquest of rights we have much to thank the women who have preceded us, but also the men who in a world of men made it possible. Or who do you think made it possible for women to vote in Spain? The Constitutional Courts in 1931 recognized women's vote by 161 votes in favour, 121 against and 188 abstentions. Do you know how many deputies there were at that time in the Constituent Courts? Only two, two women, the rest were all male. Of these two women, one of them, by the way, voted against recognizing women's right to vote for women, it was specifically the one who starred in that session that opposite speech, Victoria Kent, of the Socialist Radical Republican Party. That means that 160 men supported the vehement speech that the deputy and lawyer Clara Campoamor delivered on October 1, 1931, this year ninety years ago, in favor of recognizing women's right to vote. Thanks to this joint struggle of men and women, all citizens, we were winning equality in education, in culture, in politics, in society, at a time in Spain - two days ago - when talking about rights was still a sad utopia. When access to university was forbidden to women, Concepción Arenal decided to dress as a man to attend law classes in 1841. From Clara Campoamor I have already highlighted her struggle for female suffrage, but it was not her only battle, she also defended the repeal of article 438 of the Criminal Code, that article that allowed the husband to kill his wife in cases of adultery - to kill his wife in cases of adultery - and only the husband. Carmen de Burgos,Emilia Pardo Bazán, María Telo, all of them, among others, exercised a genuine policy of equality and their imprint has been essential to put an end to that injustice, that more than obvious injustice, which made us women inferior beings and of course discriminated against us in rights and freedoms because of the mere fact of being women. Those equality policies left a legacy that we must be very proud of and remember. That struggle of men and women is the inheritance that we have received, and that is what has allowed us all to be equal today in Spain, and this is something - and listen to me, ladies and gentlemen, listen to me very well, women who are listening to us - who are only going to hear you say it in this House to the fifty-two deputies of VOX. All Spaniards are equal, our Constitution has proclaimed it since 1978 in its article 14. [[Applauds]] Well, Minister, you and your equality policies represent the most absolute betrayal of that legacy and historic struggle for women's rights. Because the feminism that you represent is inequality, is confrontation, is division, is hatred and is tyranny, the tyranny of one thought: The inequality of those who in the name of a false equality create in Spain second citizens - men - with laws that unconstitutionally separate and classify by sex, now by gender in this third wave of feminism that you represent and in which you are rising that you are achieving the absolute elimination of women. The confrontation of those who believe that the only way to relate to opposite sex since confrontation, fear and distrust. Only VOX says loud and clear and coherently that no, violence is not in male DNA and not, of course, violence has no gender as it does not have sex The division imposed by those lobbies who distribute meat from feminists to those who communicate with their ideological mantras and who, however, despise those who get out of their very narrow mental framework. [[Applauds]] For this reason, the deputies of VOX are allowed and justified to be insulted, to be assaulted, also those of the People's Party. So, when VOX deputies get attacked, that mantra of 'I do believe you, sister' becomes ketchup. The tyranny of a feminism, which you represent, striving to erase all traces of femininity and willing to say and impose on women - that we were presumed free, minister, we were presumed free until you have arrived - what we have to say, what we have to think, how we have to feel, who we must love, what we have to eat, how we have to shave, how we have to form a family. Finally, the pathological hatred towards the male on which their policies of equality are based that make deustes non-feminist, but authentic feminists with a single objective: to replace the class struggle that historically the left has maintained for a struggle of sex, because the confrontation between man and woman is the new discourse that has replaced that discourse on the workers' struggle, because his discourse of workers' struggle, minister, is no longer held from his mansions. That sex struggle rests on a cornerstone, the criminalization of the male, making every man a potential murderer, rapist or ill-treated, adopting emergency legislation and a sort of court of honor where the man enters as presumed guilty and only if he proves his innocence is acquitted. That is, by reversing the burden of proof and destroying the presumption of innocence that all Spaniards in Spain have recognized by the Constitution, except if you are a man. The first law that imposed this emergency legislation and is a criminalizing vision of men was Organic Law 1/2004, against gender-based violence, with Mr Zapatero in Moncloa. But this national law has been followed by other autonomous laws such as the laws 2/2016 and 3/2016 of the Community of Madrid, trans and gender, which the People's Party has now refused to repeal by again yielding to the blackmail of the trans lobby, the same as you defend, Minister of Equality, who denies biological sex and claims that one is a man or woman as self-perceived; eliminating, with him, women and, with that elimination, eliminating the historical struggle for our rights; allowing a man with male biological sex who claims to feel like a woman to participate in women's sports competitions on an equal basis that the rest of biological women, though with a clear physical advantage; allowing a man with male biological sex who claims to feel like a woman to share a cell and baths with women, even if his conviction is for sexual assault; allowing a man with male biological sex when entering a court of gender violence to come out as far as he feels like a woman, letting a woman with male biological sex who claims to be attacked or to be orphaned with women, even if his conviction is for sexual assault, all of gender-based violence, without benefits. [[Applauds]] His progressive government has taken advantage of this pandemic to advance this criminalization of the male in Spain with the exclusive opposition of VOX in this Congress and the express support of the People's Party and Citizens' Party. First, through the laws on child protection and disability adopted in this Congress last June and appealed, through both unconstitutionality, by VOX and which have amended the existing legislation to allow, by simple complaint of gender-based violence, the judge to be obliged to withdraw parental authority or the regime of visiting parents with respect to their minor children. People's Party and Citizens voted in favour of this reform imposed by Pablo Iglesias last June. VOX voted against and we also appealed to the Constitutional Court. Secondly, last November at the Sectoral Conference on Equality adopted an agreement on the accreditation of gender-based violence situations. The agreement provides that women who are in the following situations may apply for accreditation of the status of victims of gender-based violence: victims in decision-making proceedings, victims in respect of whom judicial proceedings have been closed or discontinued. In all these cases, which mention the recognition of the status of a victim of gender-based violence, it simply requires the victim's statement and an assessment by the social services or the person who performs the functions in the autonomous communities without even having to be public officials, situating an administrative declaration of the existence of a victim and a victim by imputing to a name the commission of a crime of gender-based violence not only outside the justice of that parajustice which they have created, but also above it. Do you know who adopted this agreement on November 11, 2021? You and all of you, because at the sectoral conference are the Ministry of Equality and all the councils of Equality of Spain, People's Party, Citizens, PNV, Republican Left, of course PSOE and Podemos. [[pointing to the Minister of Equality, Montero Gil]] [[pointing out the hemicycle]] Only VOX opposes this legislation of exception which deepens the criminalization of thevaron. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-22-CD211222.u176	I now give the floor on behalf of the Government to the Minister for Equality. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-22-CD211222.u177	Thank you, President. Mrs Olona, I would like to begin by congratulating the feminist movement in our country, which has managed to get the deniers of violence and structural inequality against women to recognize the feminist struggle that makes it possible for you and I today to have rights until 1975. It is possible that within a century you too recognize the struggle of the present feminists for our rights in the year 2021. [[Applauds]] You always make three arguments when you talk about women's rights: the first is denialism, you deny violence, you deny structural inequality; the second has to do with what you interpret as an attack on men, as a gender war - you have described it today - and the third is the futility of equality policies, feminist policies, the unnecessary spending that you say the State deploys to protect women's rights. First of all, you deny that there is a structural inequality that affects women by being women, particularly by denying the existence of macho violence, violence against women by being women, but then by using historical and current data, which precisely show that this inequality exists and that the State has a responsibility to enforce the Constitution in our country. The main gap in inequality that exists in our country at the moment, the deepest, is that which makes more than half of the population, because of being a woman, have more difficulty in accessing quality employment, a life worthy of being lived and, of course, a life free of sexist violence, and so recognized by the international human rights bodies, Your Honor, the European Union, our own existing legality. In these matters, as in many others, ladies and gentlemen, you are fleeing from the lawfulness of our country, which recognises that women, because they are women, face structural inequalities and that States have a responsibility to combat these inequalities. [[applause]] What exactly do you propose, Mrs. Olona? That the State disregards its responsibility with more than half of the population? Above all, what do they propose to the women of our country? You want to go back to that Spain of'my husband beats me to normal', which also denounced Miguel Lorente, one of the best delegates of the Government against Gender Violence that our country has had. See, only in the first half of 2021, 75,722 women reported male-based violence, and we know that there are many more who suffer it and do not report it. What do you say to a woman who is humiliated, insulted, beaten, beaten, who lives in fear every day, for whom her home is not a safe place? What political proposal do you make to him? Do you mean that the State has to disagree, that it has to be a good wife, that it endures at home, that it is perhaps inventing it, that it is alone in its head, that the State does not have to deploy public policies to repair that damage and help it get out of the violence? Is that what you propose, Mrs. Olona? [[Applauds]] One in two women in our country has suffered throughout her life at some point macho violence. What do you say to women who are victims of sexual assault? That they have no right to go to a center with specialized psychological care, that they have no right to receive all the specialized attention to review that damage, to be able to continue to develop their life projects, that they live with fear, that they do not go out with their friends and friends at night? What do they propose to girls who are raped, who are sexually assaulted? What is your political proposal for them? Repealing equality laws that allow mechanisms to be deployed to protect them? Your Honor, what do you say to the protective mothers who are struggling to protect themselves and their children from violence against women? Are we waiting for them to be killed or their sons and daughters to mourn, or are we deploying public policies that recognize that they are not bad mothers and that are struggling to protect their rights and those of their sons and daughters? What do orphan children, whose mothers have been murdered at the hands of the abusers, often the parents of these children, tell them? That you can be an abuser and a good father? That they are not entitled to reparation by the State, by the institutions? Don't let's do anything with those orphaned kids? What do you propose, Your Honor? What do you propose, Mrs. Olona? What do they propose to a sexually exploited woman? That we legalize sexual exploitation? That we give white card, wide sleeve with pimps? Don't let us offer you any alternative, any social and work integration plans so that you can develop your life in full? What do you propose to women who are victims of trafficking and sexual exploitation, Mrs. Olona? What is your policy proposal? What are your public policies? What do you say to a woman who is the victim of economic violence? What's inventing that your abuser doesn't give you alimony? What political proposal do you have, Mrs Olona, for all these women and for their sons and daughters? [[applause]] Its proposal is to deny violence and also repeal feminist laws. And you know what would happen if we repealed them? That we would not have Atenpro; that we would not have telematic tracking devices; that we would not have 016, which since 2007 has answered more than a million relevant calls, Your Honor. There are more than a million women who have found a safe door in the State, in institutions, to get out of violence. What is your political proposal, Your Honor? How many more women have to report violence, have to be sexually assaulted, have to suffer gender-based violence? How many more children, eleven-month-old babies, have to be killed at the hands of the abusers so that you understand that the State has an obligation, the responsibility, Your Honor, to save lives and to guarantee the rights of women and their children? [[applause]] Let all women be clear: we, the Government of Spain, the vast majority of this House and the General Courts are not going to evade our responsibilities. We're not going back to the Spain you want, the'my husband beats me to normal'. We are going to build a Spain free of violence in which all women can freely develop their life projects. Women, Mrs Olona, and also men, of course, because saying that a man cannot beat, insult, humiliate, murder a woman is not criminalizing men. Saying that a boy, a man, can't spy on his partner, can't control who he's dating, isn't something for any man to be mad at. Telling a workmate who can't insinuate how you have to go to a work meeting to be more sensual isn't attacking any man, Your Honor, and you don't have to be angry at any man for that. Telling a man that he can't touch a woman's thigh or leg on the subway or on the bus without her permission is not for any man to get angry and it's not to criminalize any man, Your Honor. A feminist society free of violence can only offend those who, like you, think that men, by being men, can use women as objects to satisfy their desires; those who think that men, by being men, must have more power than women in our society, in our economy, in our families. Men, feminist men, men fighting for equality, men of truth-because, in the background, that is the reflection that you have behind you, that a man is not a real man if he cries, if he has respect, if he does the homework -, men in Spain, lordship, men of truth, know that things are not done alone, and they fry and sweep, and they are responsible for the care of their sons and daughters and also for the care of their elders, and they have relations based on respect, lordship, and not on violence, and they exercise empathy, and dreams, but they are also homosexual and they are also trans men and they are also bisexual, Your Honor. Those are the real men, and only those who think that men are above women can be angry when the women claim that public policies are made from the state that guarantee the rights of all women in our country, Your Honor. [[Applauds]] Finally, human rights matter little to you, but they often have economic criteria to define many of the public policies they defend. Violence against women has an unquantifiable cost in terms of self-esteem, loss of life, disruption of vital projects, health problems, irreparable harm to children and girls, loss of democracy, because when there is violence against women, when there is inequality against women, when there is such inequality, then we lose in democracy. But see that there are European institutions dedicated to quantifying what is quantifiable, in the number of hours of work lost, in court proceedings, in time spent in health care systems. According to the European Institute for Gender Equality, sexist violence costs Spain every year - every year - 30,521 million euros, 107 times more, Your Honor, than the budget the State has allocated to combat violence against women. And with that budget and with the feminist commitment of this Government and the General Courts in our country, very much in spite of you, ladies and gentlemen, we are making far-reaching reforms in 016 to ensure the improvement in the working conditions of the workers of 016, so that it will attend to all the violence and not only that which is taking place in the sphere of the couple or the former, to create new mechanisms of communication that make more women feel than 016 and the institutional doors are safe places; the construction of crisis centres; the modernization of Atenpro; the Law on Comprehensive Guarantee of Sexual Freedom; the accounting of all feminicides, not only those that occur in the sphere of the couple or former; the updating of the state pact, the only one of this legislature, with the People's Party, with all the exception of negationism; the Corresponsible Plan, the first public policy of co-responsibility of the State with the reconciliation of families. The Government, Your Honor, and these General Courts are convinced, we know that these policies save lives and we are not going to rest until we arrive always in time for all women. We want to save lives, guarantee rights. What do you want, Mrs. Olona? Do you want the State to share responsibility and make it possible for women to live in freedom, freedom from violence and equality in our country? Do you want to save lives, Mrs. Olona? Or what is the political proposal that brings women, more than half the population, to this House today? Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-22-CD211222.u178	Thank you, Minister. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much. The next item is Mrs Olona Choclán.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-22-CD211222.u179	With all due respect, Madam President. Look, minister, this interpellation for our group was very important, and I think we have fully achieved the objective we were pursuing, which is nothing but to show the Spaniards the confrontation between two models of feminism, two models of women, the one you represent and the one that represents VOX. You represent a woman in Spain who is weak, victim, who needs a quota to ascend to positions of responsibility, but the person who then does not care to access those positions of responsibility if it is through emotional relations, denigrating all women. [[Applauds]] You represent a woman who actually feels much inferior to men and full of complexes. That is why it has to impose, through legislation, measures that discriminate against it and put men in a situation of inferiority. In VOX, on the contrary, we defend a model of free and equal women, who look at the men of your tutu on an equal level and who, of course, do not deny that there can be situations of inequality, but what we advocate is that there is legislation that allows us to combat these situations with full respect for the rights and freedoms of all in Spain, also those of men. You ask, in an intervention full of barbarities - but it is good that the Spanish have heard them directly, so that they can see what are the reasons why you call us Machistas and misogynists. Today you said that Spain that VOX wants is the one where women were happy if our husbands didn't hit us too hard - you ask: what would you say to women who are victims of aggression? I have to ask you anyway, because your partner has fantasized about whipping a woman until she bleeds. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] What do you say to women? You know what I tell them? That with you, with you, you are absolutely unprotected; I look at you, but I mean this House as a whole, because the reality is that your emergency legislation has not protected women, whose average number of murders in the family sphere has not decreased since we started having the first figures in 2003. With these reforms, all you pursue is to have victims of the burden, so now you allow them to claim to be victims of gender-based violence who only go with their word, even against what is dictated by a court. You need weight victims to have more subsidies and to be able to place your whole court in your chiringuitos. Don't talk to me about real women and men, because real women and men don't have a nanny paid with public salaries, with a level 30 from the administration. True women and men are the ones who get up at six in the morning to go to their work and earn a decent living. And we say to those people that the best equality policy today is the disappearance of the Ministry of Equality, to which next year we will allocate EUR 500 million. Every dead man, minister, is a personal failure of his own. [[The Minister of Equality, Montero Gil: Murdered, murdered!]] And I don't understand, I don't understand why he doesn't quit: in the past seventy-two hours, three women and an 11-month-old baby. What are you still doing in your chair? VOX defends effective legislation, which does not create first and second victims; legislation that includes effective protection for women, but also for men, for homosexual couples, for children, for grandparents, second-class victims of which you forget and which does not mention And, of course, abused girls victims of sexual violence would tell them that VOX would never betray them as you have, preventing investigation both in Baleares and in Valencia, because their feminism of caviar is a double-bar feminism. [[applause]] With VOX they will have protection, law, order and real equality for women and men, minister. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-22-CD211222.u180	To conclude the debate, I have the floor on behalf of the Government, the Minister for Equality. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-22-CD211222.u181	Thank you, Madam President. First of all, Mrs. Olona, you deploy all the political violence against the women you want, do you know how we will respond to them? With more feminist legislation, with much more feminist legislation, Your Honor. [[Applauds]] The second. Look at the barbarity you have said: I defend a feminism of women who are strong and who get it all by themselves. It is quite inconsistent with what you yourself have explained before, so other women who have organized themselves and fought before are the ones who have allowed us to enjoy the rights we have today. Because rights are conquests, and they are collective conquests, Your Honor, therefore, there are always other women holding hands to fight together. The important things in life are never achieved alone, either by myself or because I'm worth it. They are built by solidarity, mutual support, community and country, Your Honor, and that is what the feminist movement has done: building a country, building democracy and building equality. [[Applauds]] But it is an enormous barbarity that you have said, because, then, the one that comes, comes. And the one who does not arrive, Your Honor, who are the majority of women in our country, who, no matter how hard they try, encounter one barrier and another in their work, in their family, in their lives? Is it because it is not good, is it because it is very weak - poor - because it is a victim, or is it because there is a structural inequality, Your Honor, that makes women, because they are women, suffer violence, have more difficulties to develop our life projects, to have a decent job, to have positions of responsibility in the company, to be able to care for our families jointly and to take care of men and women equally and to take care of the State as well? You speak only for the few who can get hold of the shoulders of migrant women, of those who are in an irregular administrative situation, of those in the workers' quarters, who are on sticky floors, Your Honor, and who also have to be able to get there, and do not come not because they are weak, but because there is machismo in society and therefore the responsibility of the State is to make public policies that assure everyone, Mrs Olona and the lady who works in Mrs Olona's house. [[Applauds]] Finally, Your Honor, Christmas is coming, and like every moment of celebration, of increasing coexistence, it is a time of risk. At risk for many women who will feel afraid 24 hours a day living in their homes. Therefore, it alerts and co-responsibility on the part of all institutions and also of society as a whole. Everyone and everyone can always do something to help a woman, to propose to her to call 016, to go to the feminist sub-arrio association, to go to a point of information to the woman; that if we have the slightest suspicion, the slightest indication that a work partner, a mother in the school of our daughters and children, in a center we frequent, in a bar, in the family, in any place we suspect that she may be suffering from a situation of violence, we reach out to her and remind her that we are safe places and that institutions are safe places that can be used to have access to all her rights. Indeed, Mrs Olona, in compliance with the State Pact and the Istanbul Convention, women victims of sexist violence in our country have the right to receive psychological care, social care, economic assistance, housing and all that is necessary, without the need to complain. Your Honor, women's rights are accessible to all women without the need to complain, in compliance with the State Covenant against Gender Violence and the Istanbul Convention. I'm done. I do not reply to you, Your Honor, because you believe that your proposals deserve more institutional respect, because I do not. I think it is an absolute shame that speeches and political proposals such as those that you bring here are issued from the institutions, but I have an institutional responsibility with the women of this country, and it is to answer them so that they know that the Government of Spain and the General Courts are here, we are safe places and we are committed to guaranteeing all their rights and always arrive on time, until violence against women is eradicated. I repeat the question, Mrs. Olona, we are here to save lives: why are you? [[Several ladies and gentlemen: very well!-Applause.-Applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations We can-In common May-Galicia in common, put to the floor]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-22-CD211222.u182	Thank you, Minister. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] - of the parliamentary group EUSKAL HERRIA BILDU, on the measures and promises of the Government to counter the disordered price of light. [[File number 172/000162]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-22-CD211222.u183	Urgent inquiry by the Parliamentary Group of Euskal Herria Bildu, concerning the measures and promises of the Government to deal with the unorthodox price of light. For his defense, Mr. Matute García de Jalón has a word.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-22-CD211222.u184	President, ladies and gentlemen, I also come to this rostrum to talk about rights, and as for rights the debate on the previous point has gone, let me tell you that whoever fears feminism in the background is opposing those who fight oppression, and that leaves them in a place in history that is not of the oppressed, but of the oppressors. But, as I said, I come to talk about other rights, the right to electricity. Madam Vice President Third, good morning. Last September 5, 2021, Mr Sánchez, President of the Government of which you are a member, committed himself in an interview given to El País - and which was then replicated by different media in the following days - to that by the end of 2021, that is, in these days, the price of the electric invoice would be equal to or lower than that of the 2018 invoice. And it should be remembered that the 2018 bill was the most expensive bill in history at the time, then it is not a very idyllic place to return to. Unfortunately, today we regret that this promise passes into the box of unfulfilled promises that mark all the governments that have existed in this state since the restoration of democracy. Because it is true that yesterday in the Senate it was said that the average bill was going to be equal to or lower than the average bill of 2018, but, at the expense of the explanations you can give us, it seems a little strange to us the conclusion to which it comes. We find it strange because it comes to that conclusion by discounting the CPI, as if the citizens did not pay the CPI on the invoices. This is done by disaggregating the electricity price of the energy package, when we all know that 17% of energy is consumed in electrical terms in households, while 44 % is in mobility or 22 % in industry. We also find it strange because it seems that it does not attend to a reality that has passed through us and that continues to pass through us all and all. And it is that the coexistence with COVID, with this pandemic, has caused consumption to decrease. Perhaps that also explains many things, but above all and fundamentally it seemed strange to us... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-22-CD211222.u185	Mr. Matute, wait a minute. Please, can you keep quiet?
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-22-CD211222.u186	He said it was strange to us primarily because he reminded us a lot of that old axiom of statistics. That is, if one person has 1000 euros and the other zero, if we draw the median, both of them have 500 euros, and it is not real. As I said, these days we have witnessed the umpteenth price escalation for many months, too many months. If on January 7th we started 2021 with the announcement of a 27% increase in electricity prices, this very week we lacerated with the most expensive electricity price increase in history. The price of megawatt/hour is between seven and eight times more expensive these days than it was on its equivalent days of the previous year. Moreover, today it is in its picohistoric, eight times above, with 360 euros. It's a new absolute record. And what does that mean? More fear for people, more benefits and dividends for electric oligopoly. That and not another is the sad and raw reality. And in the face of realism, will we continue to say that this is the result of a situation, that of gas supply, which is purely cyclical? From our point of view it is clear that it is not. Unfortunately, we face a complex, global and structural problem, and we do so these days in a critical situation for hundreds of thousands of households in the face of the arrival of winter and the supply problems for heating their own homes. And surely because we are talking about this issue, it is not appropriate for these dates to forget the sad, painful and chronicled reality that lives in La Cañada Real, thousands of people, where the hardest face of poverty, energy and the general is shown, and which denies in a very obvious way mantras and lemasque we repeat ourselves among all and all in a way of self-consumption or self-help, as it is to leave no one behind. Because here we can only see, and we say this, that we believe, without any hint of joy, that the measures implemented by the Government have not served to reverse the hard slope towards energy poverty by which more and more people are sliding every day. That hasn't been enough. Without having to prove them, they have not proved to be entirely effective. Madam Vice-President, lowering the VAT on the electricity bill from 21% to 10% or leaving the excise duty to a minimum allowed by the European Union, or lowering directly to nothing, to 0%, the generation tax paid by the electricity companies, together with this of the electrical social bonus, is not enough. Not only does it not solve the problem, but it is ineffective in building a different reality where the right to decent and adequate living conditions is guaranteed. And electricity is essential for all of this, for all of us, in a stable and lasting way. Because if we have seen something this year, it is that none of the efforts made, without taking away merit or value, but made all with public money, has been sufficient or repairing the situation as a whole. But it is even worse, because none of these efforts by the public authorities has been accompanied by a counterpart, a counterpart, a solid effort or even responsible for the large companies that dominate the electricity market in the Spanish state: the electric oligopoly. Month after month we have witnessed a confrontation of the electric oligopoly with this government through not only the media and the direct threats, but also the use of its political terminals or, using an expression that is said in this House and that some like very much, of its political leaders in this House, the heads of the electric oligopoly, who do everything that the electric oligopoly wants and nothing that citizens need. Because when his government decided to collect the extraordinary or fallen benefits of the sky, the electric oligopoly and its political leaders raised their voices. They threatened to shut down power stations and forced his Government to agree on a reform that leaves everything to good intentions, to the good desire of the electric oligopoly to thus contribute to the State. What was the result? Unfortunately, I'm inclined to zero. But not only did they rise at that time, at the time of that initiative, but they continue to wage war; they continue to carry out movements that have an obvious aroma of provocation; they continue to make more evident the existence of revolving gates with their movements. And they certainly do it to provoke or anger more those who believe that politics has to be an instrument to improve the lives of people, those who want to do politics in an honest and honest way, and that of course they do not get carried away by these readings of capturing talents in a pure state. Because we have seen these days how in Iberdrola Acebes and Báñez are joined by Carmona or García Tejerina. Pure light conjunction, I would say!Remunerated conjunction, we must also say, with not less than 250 000 euros for each of them and of them. And this, Mrs Ribera, has been done by the second company of IBEX35, Iberdrola, the same company that, apart from the exceptional and serious situation for millions of people, with 3611 million profits in 2020 and with an estimated profits of 3800 by 2021, presents a dividend distribution that was 0.42 cents per title in 2020, which raises 0.44 in 2021 and aims to be 0.56 in 2025 and 0.75 in 2030. Doesn't this give us a clue as to what the real intentions of this electric oligopoly are? Unfortunately, we are afraid that we will: continue to build up capital, continue to accumulate profits even at the expense of people's right to enjoy electricity. But this is not the only evidence. Another evidence is to see how electric companies as a whole are launching to capture customers by forcing them to move on to the free market with intangible promises of the future. And does the National Commission on Markets and Competition have nothing to say? Is this something that can also be dissociated from this premeditated delay in sending electric bills to citizens, leading to a computer problem that has lasted many months? We honestly don't think so. It is to sow fear, to sow fear to make them easier prey of their new capture strategies to continue to fatten the electric oligopoly. And in the face of this tough and difficult present and a sluggish future it is up to us to be clear with the citizens and to tell them what we are willing to do to change this reality, to stop them being hostages to policies of accumulation of wealth by a few and to stop trading with basic rights, and electricity is obviously a basic right. We already know what the right is thinking, Mr. Pablo Casado himself expressed it clearly. And no, I'm not talking about his famous and dazzling reflection on electrical production during the night of solar and photovoltaic energy. [[Mr. Hispan Iglesias de Ussel pronounces words that are not perceived]] You don't have to go that far or anyone interrupts me with so little education. I am referring to what he said in Bilbao in the framework of a conference or a few days organized by Iberdrola, where he said something so simple and so graphic, and so demolishing for the interests of the citizenry, such as this: My policy - it was said to the oligopolioelectric - is not so much to help you, but I settle for not bothering you. That is to say, with which you continue to do what you wanted; with which we continue to act - in this case the right-wing lordships - as the testifiers of the will of the oligopolioelectric, which continues to accumulate profits as more and more people fall into energy poverty. That's the reality. But what is the government's? What is that of those who claim to be left-handed? [[Mr. Hispan Iglesias de Ussel pronounces words that are not perceived]] Stop interrupting, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-22-CD211222.u187	Yes, please stop interrupting the speaker.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-22-CD211222.u188	He shows his bad education where he wants to, he doesn't need to show it to me more times; he's already done it, I know it. As I said, what is the position of the Government, that of the ladies and gentlemen who say they are on the left? Madam Vice-President, we share with you that this is a complex, global problem and we believe it is structural. And we believe it because we know that this energy crisis is one more face of the global climate crisis that we face as a society and as a planet. We believe that we are in transit between the society of abundance and, unfortunately, the age of scarcity. At least this will be the case if we do not understand the finite limits of the planet and continue to bet on exponential growth in consumption. We note that some of the fossil fuels have reached their peaks of production, whether coal, oil or uranium, and very soon gas. In addition, in case this were little and perfect comorment, we see how the raw materials needed to reverse this reality of dependence on fossil fuels and to bet on renewable sources need minerals that are beginning to show symptoms of exhaustion. For example, copper, which in twenty years has been exploited in much more quantity and dimension than in the entire history of the planet, but we could talk about the problems in chromium, germanium, tin, nickel, lithium, cadmium, gallium, selenium, teluro, titanium, gold, silver, neodymium, dysprosium, zinc or the seventeen elements of rare earths. They are all necessary for the technological and green revolution: for batteries, mobile phones, vehicles, solar panels, led lamps, semiconductors, touchscreens and, however, everyone is beginning to demonstrate certain difficulties for their exploitation. That is why it is up to us to act and anticipate and, if necessary, to confront those who live very well on the side that more and more people live worse. There are probably some who do not want their privileges to be touched, but it is necessary, and we believe it is time to stand firm with the electric oligopoly, anyone says so. It is a shame that the European Union is talking about the restriction of the free market or the distortion of competition now by a government initiative and does not say this when there are judgments of the Spanish State itself and its high judiciary that say that the electric oligopoly set the market on more than one occasion to raise prices or to inflate them. Is that the free market? Is that falsifying the competition? But, as I said, it is also sad that of the Next Generation funds only 100 million go to the energy communities and billions are willing to be co-opted by the electric oligopoly. If they want to opt for these funds, which will contribute what they have to contribute, but it is also good that the sanctions are lifted so that non-compliance with the law does not continue to come out so profitable, that their pluses for objectives do not depend that, even in breach of the law, what they have to pay will allow those pluses to reach their pockets. We need to increase the energy storage capacity so that the captured renewable energy is not lost. It is time to set up a public energy company from the hydraulic concessions that are finalising and guiding them towards the creation of new pumping plants. It is important to bet on a 100 percent renewable scenario installed massively and to reduce energy consumption, because, as I said, consumption is what it is. Madam Vice-President, it is time to give full meaning and content to the name of the ministry you lead, that of the ecological and energy transition. Otherwise, it'll be too late.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-22-CD211222.u189	Thank you very much, Mr. Matute. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] I now give the floor, on behalf of the Government, to the third Vice-President and Minister for the Ecological Transition and the Demographic Challenge.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-22-CD211222.u190	Thank you very much, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you very much, Mr Matute, for your inquiry. I thank you, because I think we focus on very important debates, on complex issues such as those we are facing. I start with a final, synthetic summary of what I think is more relevant. The government is convinced, and so we have been acting since June 2018, of how important it is to transform our energy system, to be able to count on predictable, stable and reasonable prices. For this we need to make a revolution in the energy system with many more actors, with better integration and taking advantage of local resources, and we must do so by paying particular attention to social impacts, not to increase inequalities, to attend to consumers, to workers in the face of these changes in which we know that difficulties can occur, differences in the way the consequences of this transformation are distributed. As a second comment, we also know that what we are experiencing is a translation of all the higher costs to all the prices, although in reality they are not the same costs and prices here. It is therefore important to intervene in a regulatory framework in which European regulation plays a leading role. I believe that this is a key issue, I used to say, for society as a whole, for industry, for business, for families and, also, for institutions and all political formations and, in general, for public officials, and therefore welcome is to be able to open these debates and to share and exchange not only analyses but proposals. We experienced an imbalance that was initially caused by the growth in gas demand in Asian markets, mainly in China, as a result of a faster recovery than was imagined. The practical consequence has been that in highly interconnected markets, such as fossil fuels, this has spread to many of the world's markets. To this is added a smaller investment in the maintenance of gas infrastructures, in which the demand was much higher than the supply, and tensions in the supply of gas from Russia, the main supplier in Europe - not so much in Spain, by the way - that has spread other references that apply in our European market, in our Iberian market, and immediately in the assembly of wholesale markets. Unfortunately, today we live a record of the price in the wholesale market, which will be surpassed, unfortunately, tomorrow. Tomorrow, as a result of an increase in France's electricity demand, what is needed, given the closure of a third of its generation capacity for safety reasons in four of its nuclear power plants, that we transfer the maximum of the electricity available in our interconnections, and this will therefore impact again on the price of the wholesale market in Spain and on the demand for natural gas in Spain. The rise has been abrupt, continuous and unprecedented in price and has had direct consequences on wholesale markets in all European countries. If we compare the price of gas on January 1, 2021 to today, we see that it has multiplied by ten. Therefore, more important recipe: accelerate the transformation of the energy system; much more capillary, much more efficient and much more renewable. Note that the International Energy Agency itself, already in mid-August and with an unprecedented price escalation, estimated that the price of gas would not reach 60 euros per megawatt hour by the end of December and, however, this week we have exceeded 160 euros per megawatt hour. The scope of the price rally has no precedent and is not an exclusive problem of our country. Obviously, this does not comfort us at all, but we do have to figure out how we respond to this situation, because we know that for every euro that goes up the megawatt of gas, about two euros goes up the megawatt of electricity. In this context of turbulence, accentuated, as I say, by the dependence of ants coming from Russia in a very complex situation, from the geopolitical point of view, with this country and with a crisis increased by the French nuclear closure - I said -, the short-term prospects are not at all reassuring. To this is added the design of the European market. Like all OECD countries, it is based on a marginalist operation in which the price cut marks it the most expensive technology at every moment. It is a design that has been very effective for many things, but that shows today its limitations and limited ability to react to impacts like the one we are living. Moreover, as the Agency for European Energy Regulators pointed out in its preliminary report in November, a design that is not prepared to meet the challenges of this transformation of the energy system with certainty. We therefore believe that it is vital to activate the two demands in Europe, and we have been demanding this in the summer. What analysis and ability to respond in the short term do we face extraordinary situations like the one we live in? Why do we not open an in-depth debate - of the medium term, no doubt - in order to ensure that our markets are in line with the reality that is already being lived? In that context, and pending what we can do at European level, we cannot neglect national reality. But let me remind you that in December the average price in France was 306 euros per megawatt/hour, in Italy 298, in the United Kingdom 311, in Ireland 264, in Belgium 275, the Netherlands 261, etc., and in Spain and Portugal it was 253. An unprecedented price, tremendous, with a horrific impact on families, industry and businesses, but it is a price that is below all these other countries of the European Union. The perspective, as I say, is that we must accelerate - accelerate - the transformation of the energy system. Therefore, not only in the regulatory framework the actions and policies that we have been promoting since June 2018, but with special attention in the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan, the most important amount of resources is allocated in a capillary way to households, to our infrastructure, to the ability to generate closely with our roofs, to investment in efficiency in industry and the productive sectors and in families, but also, in a cyclical way and at the height of the circumstances, with these exceptional measures that allow us to reduce the bill of consumers and dampen the terrible impact that the international context would have on all Spaniards. Thanks to the measures taken, you have no doubt that the average prices paid by the whole of Spanish households, considering all the households and not only part - we cannot discriminate according to the contract that each family has signed - will be equivalent to the whole of what was paid in 2018. And believe me that I would have liked to be able to ensure that this was the case for each of the families, but we did not decide the contracts or the volume of energy, and it is important to pay particular attention to those who, according to their contracted power, enter into what are the groups with less resources and the middle classes. It benefits 95% of households; it benefits the vast majority of small self-employed, small businesses and industry. We know that we have to continue working and, in parallel, we have also been taking steps to accompany and help the large industry. We have added measures in the field of protection to the electro-intensive industry, increasing CO2 compensation, reducing the charges that have been offset by the Ministry of Industry, facilitating - as we did yesterday - the flexibility of gas contracts and seeking the development of guarantees and guarantees instruments for medium- and long-term energy procurement. We have proposed structural measures within our remit, and I will tell you that - as you know - they are not peaceful. We believe that we are not only doing the right thing from the point of view of cost-sharing, which cannot fall exclusively on consumers and taxpayers, but must fall reasonably across all actors in society - it cannot be that we are only the mature and not the hard ones - through the CO2 reduction bill and the draft law establishing the National Fund for the Sustainability of the Electrical System, the two referrals to this House. We have accelerated the deployment of renewables and modified the auction system, so that the advantages offered by renewables with a view to lowering the bill can be achieved as soon as possible at micro level, in our villages, and at macro level, in plants that must have all the guarantees for the territory, the neighbours and the families. We have put forward short-term measures to accompany citizens and businesses and - as I said - we have put forward proposals for an exceptional response and a substantive debate at European level. With the processing of the laws regulating the CO2 reduction and the National Fund for the Sustainability of the Electricity System, we want companies to also contribute to this contribution, in this dividend that generates carbon for the economy as a whole. It can't be that electricity has these prices. We need clear signals with regard to policies that should allow us not only efficiency and penetration of renewables, but also maximum electrification in end-uses of energy. Along with this, we know that we have to take action in other areas. For this reason, we have designed and developed a stable framework for investors in the field of auctions, which shows to what extent renewables have different figures, between 25 and 30 euros per megawatt/hour on average, the two auctions held in the year 2021; ten times cheaper than what we are seeing, unfortunately, today. We know that prices collapse when there is a high level of renewables; wind, record on December 8th, marked 14 euros the megawatt/hour; or it is Sunday, with lower demand, 3 euros the megawatt/hour in some time zones. We believe that our bet since 2018, with the National Integrated Energy and Climate Plan and with all the transformations that we are driving, is the right one and - as I say - also betting on innovation and the transformation of the future with that PERTE that we presented last week. To this must be added the great stake in rehabilitation and energy efficiency in productive sectors. We have met the objectives of the European Union by 2020, I will say that with a very important collective effort, and we also want to achieve them by 2030, but on the basis of equity; an equitable sharing of costs and, above all, facilitating an agenda of positive opportunities and experiences for citizens. It cannot be that with this level of effort, with the penetration of energy with cheap costs, citizens are suffering these prices in the wholesale market. That is why we must avoid the impact on their bills of light. Short-term measures with a tax reduction of more than 60% in the last quarter that we extended to the first quarter of 2022, measures that also impact with an important shock plan for what is to come, measures that have caused us to reduce charges very significantly in the last quarter and whose average impact will be maintained in the year 2022. We believe that this is the answer that our homes require. We believe that particular attention should be paid to vulnerable consumers by strengthening and expanding the energy poverty strategy and not only fiscal and social coverage, but also to the energy price they have to pay for a minimum vital consumption that is guaranteed by the September 2021 Decree-Law. It is not enough, we will continue to work on it, you have no doubt that this Government is committed to people in a context in which the energy transition remains the best option. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-22-CD211222.u191	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] The next item is Mr Matute García de Jalón.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-22-CD211222.u192	Thank you very much, Madam President. I do not doubt the government's will for citizens to pay a price per electric bill that is reasonable, what I fear is that what is being done is not going to be enough for the problem before us. What is being done is, through the injection of public money - through the possibility of injecting public money, which is money that we will not have for other things -, by tax cuts, to alleviate a situation that is structural. But it is the structural situation that needs a clear, firm and unequivocal commitment and that cannot go on giving power to the electric oligopoly so that it is they who redefin and those who guide the way towards the energy transition or the conversion of sources of energy production, from fossils to renewables, because then we will be cheating and then the only thing that we have managed to sneeze for a time at the expense of everyone's money and all so that the electric oligopoly continues to do what it has been doing for ever. What is needed - you said - is the transformation of the energy system, which, in essence, is to deepen the fight against climate change. That's it. Basically, the energy crisis is only a dimension of the climate crisis and, if that is the case, what is needed is to deal with it in a frank and clear position. To me, personally, much of what we are living with the electric oligopoly and the position of the European Union - which I have not taken by chance - reminds me very much of the old imperialist theory of modernisation, the one used with the so-called Third World countries. It said that what they had to do was to progress, modernize and give equal form of government because at one point, when they reached that level of required modernity, they could choose to implement more democratic formulas. That is what imperialism tried in the 1960s and 1970s in geostrategic terms and with positions of power marked by territorial limits and which now make the transnationals with the acquiescence of international institutions such as, in this case, the European Union. I believe that is where these reflections must also be moved and, moreover, be demanding. It is not only worth saying that we have already moved that the transformation of the energy system is necessary, but that we have to determine what that energy system is going to be like, whether it is going to follow the logic of the path of the market economy, of the neoliberal path, or it is going to bet on another reality, because if not, we are not doing anything, it was told before. It is about betting on different initiatives, which can be done and which are fundamental: the one that has to do with the energy storage capacity, the one that has to do with the public energy company created from the disposals of electricity and guiding them towards the creation of pumping plants or the betting scenario by renewables, too - and we have to say this clearly, even if it is the least beautiful of any declaration - reducing consumption, being aware that this planet is finite and that probably an exponential growth of consumption does not lead us anywhere, but to cataclysm in a more rapid way. It is, in short, to choose, and we must do so now. We choose to follow the path of a chaotic transition dominated by economic and energy elites or we opt for a planned, just and democratic transition. We and we want it to be the second, and for that to be the case, public and Community ownership must be combined. And the public alternative - to make it even clearer - means the integral recovery of the generation, transmission, distribution and management of energy. Only then can we be talking about fundamental measures that will allow us to reorder an electricity market and an energy system that, in addition to not charging the planet, will allow the right to electricity, to energy, to be a right for all and for all, or, as the Zapatistas said, for all and all, not only a possibility for those who have more money. Because socializing the ownership of generation and distribution, as well as promoting rational use, are the steps to take to arrive at a guarantee scenario, regardless of the level of income of each in access to energy. And it is true that our proposal - indeed, in line with political ecology - is also a proposal that has a profound question of class: it is about guaranteeing access for all, and not just for those who can afford it now or in a future where materials - as I pointed out earlier - are scarcer. Madam Vice-President, ensuring access to energy is not a utopia, it is possible. It is only necessary to abandon the dogma of the market economy and to bet on a new economic, social and environmental model shared and participated portados and all, which prefaces the rights of all to the benefits of a few and guarantees the survival of the planet. I end with an appointment that's not mine, it's from a giant, but it reflects very well what our position is, in case someone hadn't made it clear. This person was saying: what has capitalism solved? It has not solved any problems, it has plundered the world, it has left all this poverty, it has created lifestyles and ways of consumption that are incompatible with existing realities. They have poisoned rivers, seas, atmosphere and land. They've created the most incredible waste. They're making life on the planet more and more difficult. This - which I share - was said by Fidel Castro Ruz two decades ago. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-22-CD211222.u193	Thank you very much, Mr. Matute. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] To conclude the debate, I have the floor on behalf of the Government, the third Vice-President and Minister for the Ecological Transition and the Demographic Challenge.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-22-CD211222.u194	Thank you, President. Thank you, Mr. Matute. I would say that our action has three main objectives: first, that all energy policies should keep in mind consumers, especially the most vulnerable and families. We want to preserve them from the international context we are living in and we want them to be part of the benefits of the transition. Secondly, to accompany industry, companies. We believe that supporting their competitiveness, which does not generate additional tensions as a consequence of what we are experiencing, is key to economic recovery, employment generation and social welfare. And the third, of course, continue with the development of a regulatory framework that allows rapid transformation, allows the attractiveness for small-scale or large-scale investment and facilitates the rapid decline of fossil fuels in our mix. And this has been the orientation that has also marked - I pointed out earlier - the Recovery Plan. I want to tell you something that we may have to remember on many occasions. We've started with the small, because we think it's the most important, the most significant. There are more than 11 billion destined to facilitate self-consumption andbatteries, storage behind the counter of each of the small installations. There are more than 4420 million for energy rehabilitation of private homes. There are more than 500 million to invest in small towns and make sustainable urban development in municipalities with fewer than 5000 inhabitants a reality. And there is an equivalent amount to boost energy efficiency in the different business and industrial sectors. We know that industry and agriculture also face challenges ahead and are also affected by electricity prices. We also believe that we cannot maintain a mute position, such as the one that is struggling to change the European Union. We believe that it is important - I said earlier - to work on proposals, which we have already tabled or which other actors, including the committee itself, are presenting, and we have asked it to do so. More than 45% of European Union citizens have governments that have driven them to have alternatives to turbulence such as those we are experiencing or to open the debate on the evolution and improvement of the current framework. We're not alone. Europe is complex, it goes at its own pace - sometimes much slower than we would like - but we are not alone. We are convinced that this is the way we have to go. This has been the case in the area of central purchasing of natural gas and in the creation of strategic reserves at European level. We have taken a first step, sure, though better, because there is still a lot of room for us from the Commission's proposals so that we can activate agile and much more adapted responses to the difficult situation we are experiencing, but in all this, if we lose sight of the fact that what matters is people, we will be in a bad situation. We will have to accompany all citizens and we will continue to work on it. As far as tax measures are concerned, shifting the burden on consumers to taxpayers simply is not enough. Of course, it is not enough - we do not agree with this proposal - but we do believe that politically at the moment it is essential, as it is also necessary to work hard on the transformation of the energy system and on the changes required by a market that was functioning so far, but that, logically, it is showing its limits in circumstances such as the current one. In the meantime, we will work with all of you, keeping those debates, those talks that you consider appropriate, because the more consensus, the more constructive proposals we can make among all of you, the easier it will be to achieve a more just, more democratic, more distributed, more efficient and more in line with the planetary limits that we must take into account. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-22-CD211222.u195	Thank you very much, Minister. The meeting was suspended until 9 a.m. tomorrow. Good afternoon. It was one and thirty-five minutes in the afternoon.
