ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-16-CD210616.u1	The meeting was resumed. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Take your seats, please. We continue with the questions addressed to the Government in accordance with the order sent by the Government. Questions to the President of the Government. Question by Mr Pablo Casado Blanco, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-16-CD210616.u2	No more political pardons, we must end them now, without interference of the Executive Power on the Judiciary and always counting on the request of the court that sentences. It makes no sense for one politician to pardon another. I'm ashamed and I'm sorry, I'm pissed off too. Mr. Sánchez, all of this doesn't say so as an impotent side of those of Abalos, this you said in one of your previous metamorphosis. Look, the word is the most important thing a person has, much more if he is in politics, and you have shown that he has no word. He's always lying, but he's not cheating on anyone anymore. In Spain we have already shut him up and abroad too. It has been sold to those who said that they did not let him sleep and not because he was avoiding the axe on the bill of light ironing at night as Calvo says, no, but to extend his stay in the Moncloa a little longer betraying his promises and justice despite the fact that his partners have already said that they are not worth the pardons but that they demand amnesty and independence and that they will do so again. It's trembling. For you the law is punishment; the rule of law, revenge; the Constitution, revenge. For you to strike the state is concord, breaking the equality of the Spaniards is coexistence and breaking the unity of Spain is reunion. If you already accept the referendum that you promised in campaign to criminalize! You can't fall any lower, let alone by an already pathological ambition of personal power. Tell us, why does it attack the unity and equality of the Spaniards? To answer this question you have five times more time than the one you used to pursue Biden. [[Prolonged applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-16-CD210616.u3	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-16-CD210616.u4	Thank you very much, Madam President. If we didn't get to know each other, I would be surprised if you didn't welcome Madrid to host the NATO summit next year. [[Applauds]] But as we know each other, I know that the good news for Spain you regret and the bad news for Spain you celebrate. Look, you, Your Honor, do not stop giving lessons in constitutionalism. They say they are the most constitutional party, they say they are the party that most defends the unity of Spain, but your honor, they forget and block the renewal of the General Council of the Judiciary, which is the main obligation that a constitutionalist party has. [[Protests]] You say - as you say in your question - that you defend equality between Spaniards, but divide us between those who are good and those who are bad You say you defend both the Constitution and both the parliamentary monarchy that send Mrs Ayuso to say inconsistencies about the role of the king in everything that has to represent the institutional architecture of our country. [[points to the seats of the People's Parliamentary Group in the Congress]] [[points out the seats of the Socialist Parliamentary Group]] [[Applauds]] You say you represent democratic regeneration and use the State's springs to cover up your corruption and get out of the anti-transfuguism pact yesterday. Your Honor, stop teaching anything and tie your shoulder even if it's only once in your life. [[Applauds]] I'll tell you one thing, Mr. Married, I'll answer your question. This Government defends the unity of Spain and the Constitution; defends it, and defends it not in word, with data. [[rumors]] When you ruled, two illegal independence referendums, a unilateral declaration of independence and the laws of disconnection adopted by the Catalan Parliament. Since governing the Socialist Party along with Unity We can, zero unilateral declarations of independence, zero illegal referendums of independence and zero illegalities in the Parliament of Catalonia. [[Applauds]] That's the big difference between you and us. And this is the problem, when you are in opposition you are very active in the defense of the unity of Spain - you make small tables, you go to the square of Columbus to manifest yourself - but when you rule you are very indolent in the defense and unity of Spain; something that is indeed doing this government, unlike you when you ruled. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-16-CD210616.u5	Mr. Married.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-16-CD210616.u6	Mr. Sánchez, Tarradellas said that in politics you can do anything but ridicule; your painful monologue of twenty-nine seconds behind Biden caused shame to everyone else. I don't know if he gave him time to tell his diplomatic exploits in the Maghreb or his rescue to Chavista companies with European funds. Be humble and don't be so presumptuous. The NATO summit was agreed by the People's Party for 2019 and could not be celebrated because of the instability you had. [[rumors.-Applause.]] But, look, in half a minute you were naked in the sight of everyone, like the emperor of the tale. He does not answer anything here; he still has twice as much time to answer this question, even though Parliament deserves the same respect that you already deserve on the outside and also on the streets of Spain. Take advantage of your time, you don't have much left. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-16-CD210616.u7	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-16-CD210616.u8	Thank you, Madam President. We are not going to use either the Constitution or the flag of Spain or the territorial integrity or the parliamentary monarchy to divide the Spaniards, as you do. [[rumors]] [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEVELOPED SANTIAGO ABASCAL CONDE, OF THE VOX PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT: WHERE ARE YOU GOING TO GET YOU WITH SO LESS IN POWER? [[File number 180/000582]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-16-CD210616.u9	Question by Mr Santiago Abascal Conde, Member of the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-16-CD210616.u10	Good morning. Mr. Sanchez, how far are you willing to go with so much as to remain in power? I admit it's a rhetorical question at this point, because you've proven yourself willing to whatever it takes: any lie, any betrayal, or any ridiculousness. You have shown from the beginning that your only principle is to remain in power at any price; at the price of lying in the first place. I'll say it while I'm in this rostrum. You brought a motion of censure to this House promising immediate elections; it served you to stay in power for months. He then went to the elections saying that it would be the dam of containment of Bolivarian extremism and ration books in Spain; twenty-four hours later he had a pact with Mr. Pablo Iglesias. He promised up to five times - he wants me to repeat it again, as you told the journalists? - up to five times, that you would not agree with Bildu, with the heirs of terrorism; today they challenge them, they have a government thanks to them, they have budgets thanks to them and their spokespersons take pictures with them. And you think it's compatible with entering the hole where they locked Ortega Lara for 532 days to take a picture while they call Ortega Lara fascists and his party. You don't have any brakes or scruples, Mr. Sanchez. At the price also of treason, because you have betrayed all your oaths to the constitutional order; you have betrayed the king; you have betrayed the Supreme Court and the Justice; you have betrayed all the honorable Spaniards who comply with the laws, especially the Catalans who suffered the coup of 2017 with an unjustified pardon, an pardon not requested by the condemned, who have not asked for forgiveness and who have only shown the purpose of reoffending. This pardon places you no longer in illegitimacy, because you came riding on the lie, but directly in illegality. And also - we have to tell you - at the price of ridicule, because after those thirty seconds watching you walk with Mr Biden and then listening to him talk about bilateral summit I imagine that this to you must look like the Hundred Years' War, Mr Sánchez, a supplication that you will have to endure while you are in power at any price, trading with the rights of the Spaniards and handing them over to the enemies of Spain. You'll end up paying for it, Mr. Sanchez, and let's hope it's in front of a court of law. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-16-CD210616.u11	Mr President of the Government, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-16-CD210616.u12	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you, Mr Abascal, for your always constructive, positive and respectful interventions. I have a problem with you and it is that on many occasions, when I hear you, I consider that it is on a premise and even, from an elliptical point of view, you come to pose something like this as an illegitimate government and therefore that this is an illegitimate Parliament, that this government has absolutely illegitimate springs and support. In short, Your Honor, this is what happens to you, that this is the vision you have of Spain, a vision in which only you and your fellow travellers of the People's Party are fit and, the rest, simply, or we are not legitimate or should be illegal. But, look, constitutional Spain is quite the opposite of what you represent, sir. It does not cease to be quite curious that you try to give us lessons of constitutionalism, to label as illegitimate parliamentary groups who are here, when you are the heirs of those who yearn for the time of eighty years ago, as you have on other occasions come to say. You are the ones who yearn for Francoism and here there are people who have defended democracy and are children and grandchildren of people who defended democracy and who brought the Spanish Constitution and the great agreement it represents. [[Applauds]] That's the big difference between you and us. In any case, it must be acknowledged, Your Honor, that there is a problem of coexistence in Catalonia. Or isn't there a problem with living together? Or is it that there is no political problem that we have to solve? What is your solution? We already know what the solution of the People's Party is, none. But what's yours? Eighty years ago? Is that the solution you propose for Catalonia? What do we propose? We propose what the Constitution tells us, not only in its writing but also in its spirit. It tells us that we have to foster dialogue, that we have to foster agreement, that we have to negotiate, within democratic legality, with respect for the Spanish Constitution, in order to guarantee and safeguard the territorial integrity and unity of Spain that the Government of the People's Party, with its indolence, also called into question four years ago. And that's what we're going to do, ladies and gentlemen. Obviously, you have another proposal; and that proposal, indeed, is not that of forty years ago, but that of eighty years ago. Ours is the Spanish Constitution, the defense of constitutional values, among which are concordia and coexistence, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-16-CD210616.u13	Mr Abascal has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-16-CD210616.u14	Nothing, Mr Sánchez, we lend you the seven seconds we have left for your next bilateral summit, which I'm sure you'll benefit from. Thank you very much. [[Laughs.-Applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-16-CD210616.u15	I give the floor to the President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-16-CD210616.u16	Your Honor, I thank you for your generosity. In any case, we will claim Spain that looks forward and not Spain in black and white that you claim. [[Applauds]] - OF JOSÉ'S DEPARTMENT MARÍA MAZÓN RAMOS, OF THE JOINT PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT: WHY DOES THE GOVERNMENT NOT COMPLETE THE RESOLUTIONS APPROVED BY THE CONGRESS OF THE DEPUTATES BY MOST MAJORITY CONCERNING THE AUTONOMOUS COMMUNITY OF CANTABRIA? [[File number 180/00576]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-16-CD210616.u17	Question by Mr José María Mazón Ramos, Member of the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-16-CD210616.u18	Mr Sánchez, last October this Congress approved by a very large majority, including the parties that support it and the opposition, to urge the Government to agree on a transfer of 4.99 cubic metres a year from the Ebro swamp in Cantabria to Santander and the bay arch. The Minister of Ecological Transition refuses to do so. Can you explain to me why your Government does not comply with what has been agreed in this House that affects Cantabria? And don't answer me that the water supply is guaranteed, because, of course, collecting the water from the swamp and then returning it pumping from below, so, anyone; and, moreover, having previously climbed. It is as if a family lacks 500 euros every month to pay the rent and the bank tells it that it has no problem because it lends them to them; but, moreover, it has to make an advance on account and, for more inri, it turns out that the house has taken it previously.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-16-CD210616.u19	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-16-CD210616.u20	Your Honor, I am sorry, but I will have to answer you and you have already anticipated, indeed, what the answer is. First of all, I would remind you that in the motion to which the Government referred, it was indeed a call to agree on a transfer from the Ebro Hydrographic Demarcation to the Western Cantabrian Demarcation, when necessary. I tell you, Your Honor, the water supply in Cantabria is guaranteed now and always. In fact, the Council of Ministers of 4 August 2020, as I have pointed out here, approved the agreement authorizing this extraordinary transfer to meet supply needs. Therefore, what I have come to reiterate to you, Mr Mazón, is that the water supply to Cantabria is guaranteed now and always, and I assure you, moreover, that we will be able to find a solution and that we appreciate positively the work that the Vice-President of Ecological Transition and Demographic Challenge is jointly developing with the Government of Cantabria on this issue. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-16-CD210616.u21	Mr. Mazon.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-16-CD210616.u22	Mr. Sanchez, you have to read the whole deal. We are talking about an absolutely legal issue, which is the responsibility of the Council of Ministers, which was already receiving a favourable report from the hydrographic confederations and the State's Advocate and which was paralysed for reasons which do not come to pass now. This Congress corrected it by an absolute majority. The serious thing is that it is a problem of a minor issue, and the worst part of it is that life is complicated by minuteness. Nor is it so serious that they lose even parliamentary support. The worst thing, Mr Sánchez, is that your credibility disappears, and you are the president of Spain, and in Cantabria you can imagine. I am not talking here about the PRC pact with the PSOE for the Cantabria coalition government, that is another agreement that we will talk about, because some commitments are being fulfilled and others are pending. Here, as you know, there is no prior agreement and we want the Government to comply with what is agreed upon. Don't be fooled, Mr. Sanchez, I think you know Cantabria quite well. If you're not sure what I'm saying, give me five minutes' clock time and I'll explain it to you personally and outside the debate. What we ask is a necessity. Every summer we have problems and the Pas River suffers a lot. This is also something that does not harm anyone, has no cost, all are benefits: environmental, technical, ecological and social. Mr Sánchez, if you think this Parliament is good for something, will the government deal with the motion agreed last October on the 4.99 cubic hectometres of transfer?
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-16-CD210616.u23	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-16-CD210616.u24	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Mazón, what I cannot accept is that the Spanish Government does not comply with Cantabria. [[Rumors]] We are fulfilling and we will, of course, be fulfilling throughout the legislature. I will give you some data: the General State Budgets of 2021 commit for Cantabria 2250 million euros in volume of resources, with investments amounting to almost 283 million euros; that is, the per capita investment is estimated to be 401.1 euros, much higher - 55% - than the national average. Isn't that a commitment to Cantabria, Your Honor? We give a significant boost to the development of rail connections. EUR 44 million has been authorized to repay the debt of the Hospital de Valdecilla. Isn't this meeting Cantabria, Your Honor? I believe that we must be rigorous even when we criticise the Government of Spain, Your Honor. For example, with regard to the CAP, the minister, just a few minutes ago, was commenting that he is also meeting with you to listen to your proposals. In short, Your Honor, and returning to the question you have raised, I thank you for the tone, Mr. Mazón, you reaffirmed that the Government is fulfilling and will continue to fulfil the commitments with Cantabria, I believe it is clear that with concrete policies we can work together, and I reiterate that the Government is working on possible solutions to the problem that we are facing here today. I'm sure we'll be able to come to an agreement. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause]] - OF THE DEVELOPED GAMARRA RUIZ-CLAVIJO DESIGN OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, which FORMULATES THE VICE-President OF THE AND MINISTER OF PRESIDENCY, RELATIONS WITH THE COURTS AND DEMOCRATIC MEMORY: WHY IS THE GOVERNMENT SUBMITTED TO INDEPENDENTITY? [[File number 180/00586]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-16-CD210616.u25	Questions to the First Vice-President of the Government and Minister for the Presidency, Relations with the Courts and Democratic Memory. Question by Mrs Concepción Gamarra Ruíz-Clavijo of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-16-CD210616.u26	Thank you, President. Madam Vice-President, let's be clear. The Government was not only negotiating the granting of pardons to independenceist politicians convicted of sedition and embezzlement. The Government is negotiating to extend everything a legislature can through the independenceist politicians convicted of sedition and embezzlement. Little more has to be explained. As Napoleon well said about Machiavelli, for you the end justifies all the means, and above you have the cynicism of being giving us moral lessons while cooking this immoral assembly. They tell us of coexistence, of magnanimity, of union; they want us to believe that they work for good and seek only their good, their well-being. And the goal of his allies is to undermine the foundations of the rule of law. Madam Vice-President, for the independenceists, the government has become the fool to destroy the lawfulness in Catalonia and, therefore, in the rest of Spain. This is demonstrated by the hidden plan of Esquerra Republicana, which we already know all the Spaniards and of which it seems that you do not want to know. They're trying to corner him, for what? To force a unilateral declaration of independence. And that negotiating table outside democratic institutions is the red carpet that you put on for them to finally get away with. That is why, Madam Vice-President, she asked him: Why is the government subject to independence? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-16-CD210616.u27	Madam First Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-16-CD210616.u28	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Gamarra, to use the same word that you have used, this government is subject to only two things: through the Constitution and the results of the ballot box. Nothing more. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-16-CD210616.u29	Mrs. Gamarra.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-16-CD210616.u30	Madam Vice-President, who has seen it and who sees it, what little remains of the one that activated 155 with us in other times. [[One Member: Very well, very well!]] Look, Spain is facing a first-class constitutional crisis that has promoted this government and you are not able to give a response to the Spaniards. Let's see if you know once that the problems that the Spaniards have are the ones that have provoked and are causing you with this crisis, that cause you to have to go out and tell them that in their name they do not pardon criminals. Mrs Calvo, moreover, I think it is important that you have a clear idea on the left: the street is not your heritage. Finally, the currency that you are willing to pay for your permanence in power is what will be most expensive for the Spaniards, in terms of coexistence, in the history of our democracy. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-16-CD210616.u31	Madam First Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-16-CD210616.u32	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Gamarra, you know I like to always leave you a second part so that you can really reformulate what you mean. [[Rumors]] And you know what's going on? That you continue to have an almost genetic problem, and that is that you do not know how to be in the opposition, that you do not know how to finally accept the result in the ballot box and know that you govern others that are not you and therefore your speech as well as incoherent, is unreal. I will tell you for the umpteenth time who, when and who in the government broke the law in Catalonia: with their party comrades in Moncloa, with them ruling this country, who went with disdain, without respecting the Catalan society itself that is being debated in two areas, without having any interest in how to open Catalonia to Spain, who led this country to a crisis that is its own. Mrs Gamarra, do some criticism, some reflection, because if you don't, you don't bring or mean anything. You have lost all the electoral support you had in Catalonia. They don't mean or exist there. What kind of project do you have for Spain if you don't paint anything in the Basque Country or Catalonia when you talk about the territorial unity of Spain? They are not credible, and they are not credible because, using their own word, they are subject to the far right. [[Applauds]] They have lost the course and identity of what this country has to do, and they made it clear on Sunday by encountering the stone of Columbus twice. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEVELOPED DON IVAN SPINOSIS OF THE SIMON MONTERS, OF THE VOX PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHICH FORMS THE VICE-President OF THE AND MINISTER OF THE PRESIDENCY, RELATIONS WITH THE COURTS AND DEMOCRATIC MEMORY: DOES THE GOVERNMENT BELIEVE WITH THE MAJORITY RESPONSE OF THE SPAIN OUT OF THIS CAMERA? [[File number 180/00583]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-16-CD210616.u33	Question by Mr Iván Espinosa de los Monteros de Simon, Member of the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-16-CD210616.u34	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Vice-President, if I have understood correctly, you have just said that the government is only submitting to the polls. I mean, you don't submit to the law, you don't submit to the Constitution, you don't listen to the Supreme Court, just the ballot box. Of course, it makes sense, because in the ballot box you can lie. When you go to elections, you know that if you reveal your true plan of government you will never be elected and that is why you lie in campaign, but not once or twice, but dozens. I will not allow governability to rest in independence parties. Pedro Sánchez said so. If you want, I'll tell you five or twenty times: with Bildu we're not going to make a deal. Pedro Sánchez said so. I pledge here today to bring Puigdemont back to Spain to hold him accountable to justice. First law and then dialogue. There can be no dialogue without respect for the law. Never more pardons for political reasons. These are all phrases by Pedro Sánchez. You'll say they're from when I wasn't president of the government. You lied, because you knew that telling the truth would never rule, but the Spaniards are already realizing, Madam Vice President, and this Sunday we were able to see a cry in the streets in Spain against pardons. As you know, surveys, such as that of SocioMétrica, say that 80% of Spaniards are against the granting of these insults. By the way, among them, 72.5% of the voters in their party, the Socialist Party, are also against pardons. Even Felipe González has shown that he is against pardons and has said that he can no longer vote for you. He's politically orphaned. Madam Vice-President, do you not realize that the government no longer has the support of the Spanish outside this House? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-16-CD210616.u35	Madam First Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-16-CD210616.u36	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Espinosa de los Monteros, do you see how you do politics? Rewind. I have said that this Government is subject by the Constitution - all of it, including the title of the Crown - to the ballot boxes of this country. He's forgotten the Constitution. You have brought here today a disturbing, very disturbing question. You have come here today to ask, literally, what support the government has outside this House. What are you saying, that Spanish democracy is not in this House, nor by the procedure established by the Constitution? Are you talking about something else? Since there's time left, tell me. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-16-CD210616.u37	Señor Espinosa de los Monteros.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-16-CD210616.u38	Madam Vice-President, as you already have a rich political experience, I think you know that the government does not come here to ask the opposition, but it is the opposition that comes to ask the government and you answer, do not ask me. [[Applauds]] So, in fact, you only submit, as you have said, to the ballot boxes because you in the ballot boxes lie, deceive the Spaniards. And do you know what I'm saying, Madam Vice President? That as you are already realizing, there are more and more Spaniards, even on the left, who repudiate what you are doing. In Columbus, I was able to meet a lot of people who voted for it and who feel deceived by you and your President of the Government and who will not vote again for you or anyone in the Socialist Party, who you will leave as a heritage when you leave the Government, which will be later than I would like, but much earlier than you believe. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-16-CD210616.u39	Madam First Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-16-CD210616.u40	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Espinosa de los Monteros, because I have some political experience - I insist - is why I am concerned about what you have asked. Democracy is here and until the ballot box is spoken is here. Or not? The proclamations you make, perfectly legitimate, of how things can be when they come - that no one is extending a legislature because this legislature has not even reached half - mean something that worries a consolidated democracy like this, because a democracy is ordered and you represent national sovereignty as I represent it. As long as that is the case, you have to say every day how you disagree with this government by respecting itself. Do you understand? We must respect the outcome of the ballot boxes and the ideological diversity of this country because if not this country, as the President has just said, returns to the past, to a terrible past in which - yes, yes -, as you said on Sunday, were the Spaniards good because it is seen that the rest will be the Spaniards bad. Do you understand why I'm worried about how you ask and what's under your question? They are within democracy, they disagree with the government and, on Catalonia, they contribute something; they contribute something that serves Catalonia and that serves Spain. In the meantime, all they do is tangle and lie. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-16-CD210616.u41	Thank you. - OF THE GIRL INES ARRIMED GARCIA, OF THE CITIZEN'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, FORMULATING THE VICE-President OF THE AND MINISTER OF THE PRESIDENCY, RELATIONS WITH THE COURTS AND DEMOCRATIC MEMORY: CONSIDER THE VICE-President FIRST OF THE GOVERNMENT AND MINISTER OF THE PRESIDENCY, RELATIONS WITH THE COURTS AND DEMOCRATIC MEMORY THAT THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE GOVERNMENT UNDER HIS COORDINATION IS RESPONSIBLE FOR THE GENERAL INTEREST OF THE SPAIN? [[File number 180/00581]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-16-CD210616.u42	Question by Mrs Inés Arrimadas García, Member of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-16-CD210616.u43	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Calvo, do you think your Government is focused on solving the daily problems of the Spaniards?
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-16-CD210616.u44	Madam First Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-16-CD210616.u45	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Arrimadas, yes: 13 million double-tracked vaccines, important employment data, and rising, as well as social security contributions, a pace of our economy that is beginning to be important and robust enough to recover this country, and a provision of funds and a budget execution that puts us with great hope to get Spain forward. Help us. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-16-CD210616.u46	Mrs. Arrimadas.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-16-CD210616.u47	Mrs Calvo, you have no idea what the Spanish are suffering, and I am not surprised, because in the worst crisis we have had you focus on pardoning the politicians who have broken and ruined Catalonia. And you do not forgive families the bill of the most expensive light in history, nor do you forgive the self-employed their share, nor have you given a single euro in direct aid to anyone. But since you don't listen to the Spanish and their problems, at least listen to it yourself a while ago. Look, you in 2019: 'There's going to be strict respect for what this conviction means'. Pedro Sánchez, 2019: 'There will never again be pardons for political reasons. They must always count on the request of the sentencing court and there will never again be interference of the executive power in the judiciary.' This is, without a doubt, the phrase I like most about Sánchez's lies. What's happened since they promised this, banging each other in the chest? For Esquerra requires the pardons to keep them in Moncloa. And I advance to what you are going to tell me: that not being in favor of pardons is to be fair, to be with the extreme right or to be a revanchista in Catalonia. Well, look, everything you tell me applies to you and Sanchez in 2019. Moreover, the Sanchez campaign, the one who promised he would not pardon them, would have gone first to the square of Columbus, because sanchism consists in that, to empty the PSOE of principles and morals to fill it well with instinct of survival in politics. Look, do you know what we're proposing for Catalonia? Which has never been done in forty years. First, let the Spanish Government not confuse separatism with Catalonia. Secondly, the Generalitat respects our rights for once. And, third, that in Catalonia the government really focuses on solving the real problems of Catalans. This is the solution and not the one to repeat the same mistake of forty years ago, which is to give in and give in to these gentlemen. Spain is the only country in the world that treats those who want to destroy it better than those who defend it. I am not then surprised by their ridiculous scorns in international politics. Who abroad will respect Sánchezsi Sánchez does not respect our democracy? Look, you can't call the rivals we're still defending today what Sanchez promised in the campaign. And separatism was wrong to go against more than half Catalonia. It's going to be wrong for you to go against the vast majority of Spaniards. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-16-CD210616.u48	Madam First Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-16-CD210616.u49	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs. Arrimadas, your mantra is usually: we are of center and moderate. Thank you for your moderate tone. You have told this government and modestly to me that we have no idea, because you certainly have it all piled up. They have amassed the idea of what this country is that the ballot boxes are grossly failing it both, but in a loud and clear way. You have practically disappeared and with the OPA that you are going to give, encouraging transfuguism, we will see what remains. And are you the one who arrogates the general understanding and analysis of this country by telling this government, which is based on one hundred and fifty-five seats, that you have no idea how to interpret this country to take out the only thing that has served you in politics, which is to confront Catalonia with Spain? It's just that you ended up in the same place. You started in Catalonia with the most terrible speech, which ended up taking over the far right of this country. Today I will remind you because you have missed an extraordinary opportunity here, you no longer paint anything, but neither here nor anywhere. And do you come to tell this government that we are not able to understand what the reality of this country is, with what it has left? Focus, don't waste any more time, get your head out of the Catalan tirabuzion and get yourself into this country. This government is always within the Constitution, and in three years in two legislatures of President Sánchez, not a single line of legality has been crossed. If he was transferred with his partners, those who dragged him and dragged him to almost nothing political. Sorry, Mrs. Arrimadas, sorry this morning here. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-16-CD210616.u50	Thank you. - OF THE DEVELOPED Mrs ISABEL POZUETA FERNANDEZ, OF THE PARLIAMENTARY GROUP EUSKAL HERRIA BILDU, WHO FORMULATES THE VICE-President OF THE AND MINISTER OF THE PRESIDENCY, RELATIONS WITH THE COURTS AND DEMOCRATIC MEMORY: SHARE THE PLANTS RECEIVED IN THE REPORT OF THE GENERAL COUNCIL OF THE JUDICIAL POWER AGAINST THE PREVIOUS DRAFT DEMOCRATIC MEMORY LAW? [[File number 180/000578]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-16-CD210616.u51	Question by Mrs Isabel Pozueta Fernández, Member of the Parliamentary Group Euskal Herria Bildu.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-16-CD210616.u52	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Calvo, the General Council of the Judiciary issued a report which charged against the preliminary draft democratic law and, while knowing that it is not binding, we would like to know whether it shares the approaches contained in that report.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-16-CD210616.u53	Madam First Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-16-CD210616.u54	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Pozueta, this government, as is procedurally correct, receives reports for the processing of its bills, in some cases they are requested voluntarily, in other cases - as you well know - they are not binding, which is the case for us. I have to tell you that it is a report, in substance and in many matters, quite reasonable, but there are some issues that the Government does not share and that it will not share, among which is to say that the rise of totalitarianism that belongs to us Spaniards - which is the fascism of the Franco dictatorship - is part of freedom of expression, when every day that means the absolute vilificade of all the victims that remain to be repaired. That part cannot be shared by this Government. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-16-CD210616.u55	Mrs. Pozueta.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-16-CD210616.u56	Mrs Calvo, we are glad that you do not share the views of the General Council of the Judiciary because clearly that report is pure support for Francoism. It is hard to believe that in a democratic State it must ensure the judicial objectivity, the maximum power of the Spanish judiciary, defend a dictatorship and its crimes. Can you imagine a foundation called Adolf Hitler in Germany? It would be impossible. But here, in this state, this happens with the approval of the judges because, although he does not like to hear it, this is the best example of the pillars of that regime of 78, how justice continues to be undemocratic, marking the judicial and political becoming of the whole state. It might seem that Spanish justice respects freedom of expression but, yes, only that of the Francoists. And in the face of all this, what we hope is that this law will be more ambitious, that it will serve the hundreds of memorialist associations - even Amnesty International has been demanding for years - and will end impunity, giving way to truth, justice and reparation for all of them. As far as the truth is concerned, I would tell you that this report in your search remains partial, interested, exclusive and non-inclusive, marked by the French Official Secrets Act. With regard to access to justice, it was still denied, owing to the application of the Amnesty Act and the criminal statute of limitations for the crimes of Francoism. And in relation to reparation, the one envisaged in the preliminary draft is merely symbolic and administrative in nature, and does not give full satisfaction to the victims of State terrorism. Let us not lose another day, Minister, let us make it possible for the thousands of victims to finally see their recognized rights, for too long to wait. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-16-CD210616.u57	Madam First Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-16-CD210616.u58	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Pozueta, very soon the Government's plan will be in this House to open the relevant parliamentary debate. As is known, the laws are drafted by the General Courts and we are the legislators who have the first and last word of what can be mandatory in our country. This bill has a strict commitment to humanitarian law, to the recommendations made to us by the United Nations with regard to compatriots who are still missing, without identifying, without returning their families, without restoring their dignity, which is the most important thing that this law needs to be put forward. But we won't even wait for the law to exist. We have been working with associations, autonomous communities, municipalities and families for over a year to go quickly in identifying, exhuming and repairing the dignity of what happened in our country. What happened in our country was the prologue of the rest of fascism that arrived in Europe. That is why Spain joins the anti-fascist struggle and the memory of the victory against fascism also from our country on 8 May, and that contemplates this law with all rigour. That is why I was telling you that it is a report that has reasonable parts and parts that the Government is not going to admit in a law that will take very few weeks to finally be in this parliamentary debate. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-16-CD210616.u59	Thank you. - OF THE DEPUTY THEOTOR GARCIA EGEA, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHICH FORMS THE Honourable Vice-President THIRD AND MINISTER OF WORK AND SOCIAL ECONOMY: DOES THE Vice-President THIRD CONSIDE THAT THE FIELD OF TAXES, PAYMENTS AND LIGHT TARIFFS ARE THE SOCIAL Shield OF THE MORE THAN FIVE MILLIONS OF SPAIN WHO WANT TO WORK AND CAN'T? [[File number 180/00587]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-16-CD210616.u60	Questions to the third Vice-President of the Government and Minister for Labour and Social Economy. Question by Mr Teodoro García Egea, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-16-CD210616.u61	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs. Díaz, you're leaving the social shield like you left United Left in Galicia, devastated. 0.8 % of the votes you took as a candidate and your influence on Galician politics has been reduced to Mr Sánchez's influence on Mr Biden, and with the same political weight. So much talking about minimum living income and in one year only one in five Spaniards has received it. They do not solve the issue of housing that so much worries many Spaniards, and with you people without resources have to put it in the morning washing machine while others can sleep loosely. They have left many people behind because their flight forward has been at the expense of the middle classes and the working classes. They're your social shield. In addition, in fifteen days the invoice has been charged thirty euros and this Tuesday a historical maximum has been recorded. What have you done to protect the Spaniards? It is clear that the same as the Members of Podemos in the Galician Parliament, absolutely nothing. Do you consider the rise in taxes, tolls and light rates to be a social shield for the Spaniards? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-16-CD210616.u62	Madam Third Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-16-CD210616.u63	Your Honor, thank you for your question. I remind you again that you have a serious problem with the data. In his question today he tells us that we have five million unemployed in Spain; on April 14 - two months ago - he told me that there were six million unemployed in Spain. Neither of the two figures, Mr. García Aegean, is true, the two are false. Note, to make it clear to you. In Spain, today, there are 3,781,250 unemployed workers. Unless you want to tell me, Mr García Aegean - and I am sure not - that the Spanish Government has been able to create a million jobs in almost two months. Review your data, Mr. García Aegean. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-16-CD210616.u64	Mr. García.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-16-CD210616.u65	Mrs Díaz, I understand that this debate is very uncomfortable for you, because you have had to betray all your principles to be sitting there. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-16-CD210616.u66	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-16-CD210616.u67	Even this intervention you have made is too gross for you. You know that there are almost six million people who want to work and can't - adding ERTE, autonomous with cessation of activity - and, therefore, no matter how much you move your head, that reality will not change you. [[Ms. Vice-President Third and Minister of Labour and Social Economy, Díaz Pérez, makes negative gestures]] In addition, you have less enthusiasm for defending the government than Mrs Verstrynge is for holding rallies. You have to cheer up a little bit more. [[Protests]] In addition, we have two options: either you lie to Brussels and you are going to repeal the labour reform or your word is worthless and you are not going to touch a coma. I haven't seen Mrs. Calviño for a long time, you don't want to photograph yourself with you, but be brave and tell the truth. Are you going to repeal it or not? They gave up the promise to lower the bill for the light and this week we've seen the most expensive receipt in history. Tell us some of this data. So much so that you like to talk about data, tell us something about the bill of light. I know you're uncomfortable with this debate. Keep asking Mrs. Rivera to see if there's going to be a solution to this. This is a scandal! The first step a government should take is to lower the price of electricity. Do you know who said this, Mrs Ribera? Your roommate, Mrs. Díaz. Now, very quiet and talking about 2012. Since you have a job you no longer care about the price of light and I think you should work for everyone. Mrs Díaz, I think you should be a little humble and convince Mrs Rivera to support Pablo Casado's proposal to eliminate the tax on the generation and, moreover, to stop being the most expensive government in history for the bill of light and the number of advisors. And I ask you a favor, Mrs Díaz: now you tell us the story you want, but please pardon the Spaniards of the most disastrous government in history. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-16-CD210616.u68	Madam Third Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-16-CD210616.u69	Your Honor, I'm going to remind you, since you're talking about taxes, and since these are serious things in a country, I'm going to remind you of the People's Party Dolores Fridays. [[Rumors]] Do you know how many tax increases you've brought to your government? Thirty. It is the first government of the People's Party - its own - that has risen the IRPF, the IBI, societies, have created a tax for the lotteries; even, look, they have recorded with a sun tax. This is the policy of the People's Party. While they were doing this, taxes were going up for the popular and middle classes, do you know what you were doing in Royal Decree 12 of the year 2012? Practice the greatest tax gift to friends of the People's Party, the greatest tax amnesty in history. [[Applauds]] Therefore, Mr García Eggea, do not tell us about taxes on the Spanish Government. Secondly, you are very concerned about the bill for light, and I will tell you, yes, it is a very serious problem for millions of families in this country, and the Government of Spain is committed to lowering the bill for light. [[Rumors]] Yes, Mr. García Aegean, despite your proposals. And I tell you more, for the first time, we are addressing something that has never been done, and with the People's Party against it, which is to get us to stop having the benefits fallen from heaven. But, look, Mr. García Aegean, we have two problems in our country: the electric oligopoly and the rotating doors, of which you are experts; Mr. Aznar, Mr. Acebes or Mrs. Tocino herself. [[Applauds]] You'll never see me in an electric, be sure. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-16-CD210616.u70	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-16-CD210616.u71	And I also tell you, Mr García Aegean, to take this problem seriously and help the Spanish Government also to lower the bill for light. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-16-CD210616.u72	Thank you. - OF THE DEVELOPED Mrs Macarena OLONA CHOCLAN, OF THE PARLIAMENTARY GROUP VOX, WHO FORMULATES THE Honourable Vice-President THIRD AND MINISTRE OF WORK AND SOCIAL ECONOMY: WHY HAVE YOU ONLY SENT LETTERS TO MORE THAN 130 COMPANIES IN SPAIN, FROM MARCH 2020, HAVE YOU ANNOUNCED PLANT ASSISTANT ASSISTANCE FROM COLLECTIVES? [[File number 180/00584]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-16-CD210616.u73	Question by Mrs Macarena Olona Choclán, Member of the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-16-CD210616.u74	With all due respect, Madam President. Minister, good morning, let me start with a previous. I know this question does not affect you, because for that you are a good communist, but I want to give voice to the millions of rich people in Spain who today, Wednesday, June 16, will suffer the second most expensive price of light in Spanish history. Today I want to represent those millionaires in Spain who put washing machines, irons, have refrigerators, microwaves, those almost six million - listen to me, communist minister - almost six million unemployed people in Spain, who do not stop, who are at home suffocated with heat; and also the lucky ones who keep their jobs, but who, to bear the heats proper to the summer stage, put the air conditioning. On behalf of all these millionaires he raised his voice today, because they will pay up to 105 euros in the afternoon-night. It is a good thing that this progressive government and its communist minister of employment do what they do is stand alongside the working class and therefore maintain the highest taxes on the bill of light throughout Europe. It goes for you, millionaires of Spain, who can be very quiet. On questions from the People's Party, the Communist minister has said that this government is committed to lowering taxes on the bill of light in Spain. Minister, Orange, Banco Santander, fusion of Liberbank and Unicaja, Sabadell, El Corte Inglés, Adolfo Domínguez, Coca-Cola, Heineken, Indra, ACS, Airbus, Nissan, HM, Endesa, Hotel Palace... A very simple question, even for you, what do all these companies have in common? In all cases, they are some of the more than one hundred and thirty companies that since March 2020 are going to make massive staffing adjustments, through collective layoffs. Hey, minister, how can this be possible? In some of the cases mentioned above, even if an ERTE had previously been agreed. Wasn't it you who went out in all the media saying that it wasn't going to be possible to fire in Spain after the companies took over the ERTE? What is it, that you forgot the small letter, that little letter where it is said that if companies pay the penalties, of course you can go to a collective dismissal after you've caught an IRTE, communist minister? I was telling you, during the last control session, that you are a fraud, and I repeat it to you today. Thank you, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-16-CD210616.u75	Madam Third Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-16-CD210616.u76	Thank you for your question, I'll answer it. You don't seem to know the data well either. He's talking about two requirements. Your Honor, it is very simple, ask the ministry for the data and you will see how many practical requirements the General Directorate of Labour per day, not only in those two financial entities that you are talking about, and we will gladly give them to you: at a rate of twenty newspapers. Secondly, Mrs Olona, I think you have a problem with the People's Party. We saw her last Wednesday. You look forward to being the spokesman of the People's Party, even in the last session you made a defense in excess of the maintenance of labor reform, and not even Mr. García Aegean, although he gave you passion, was able to surrender so much. You speak here today of Article 51 of the Workers' Statute, while telling us that you want to maintain the labour reform of the People's Party because it is very good. Be clear, Your Honor: either we maintain the labour reform of the People's Party or, of course, there is no prior administrative authorization for those problems that you are talking about. Clear up. [[Applauds]] Do you want to maintain the labor reform of your party and the People's Party or what do you want to do, Your Honor? You want to explain it to me? Your Honor, you are doing, in an arduous attempt at populism, to defend the workers of this country and, believe me, do not hang. You are the ones who have said that no to a rule that we have repealed, whereby in this country, with the labour reform of the People's Party, workers who were sick could be dismissed. I tell you again: if for you out there, today the workers of our country would be falling like bedbugs, just thanks to the work of you, who have said no to that norm; for you today this would be allowed. [[applause]] And not only that, we saw them last Thursday voting against the most vulnerable workers, the workers who distribute on platforms, Your Honor. Yeah, we heard them. They voted no, and they also said they were going to go to the Constitutional Court. Your Honor, do not cheat, they are against the workers of this country and, as we have seen on Thursday, very much in favour of some multinational that exploits the weakest people in this country sovereignly. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-16-CD210616.u77	Thank you. - OF THE PILAR CALVO GOMEZ DEPARTMENTARY DEPARTMENTARY GROUP, which FORMULATES THE VICE-President OF THE FOURTH MINISTER FOR ECOLOGICAL TRANSITION AND THE DEMOGRAPHICAL CHALLENGE: WHAT IS THE OPINION OF THE GOVERNMENT ON THE AFFECTION TO THE LITERAL OF THE METROPOLITAN AREA OF BARCELONA? [[File number 180/00575]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-16-CD210616.u78	Question addressed to the fourth Vice-President of the Government and Minister for the Ecological Transition and the Demographic Challenge. Question by Mrs Pilar Calvo Gómez, Member of the Plural Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-16-CD210616.u79	Thank you, President. Minister, one week after your announcement of the planned approval of the plan for the protection of the Ebro Delta in August, we ask ourselves, what is the Government's view of the impact on the coastline of the metropolitan area of Barcelona? In order to put the question into context, I will tell you that last February the European Commission sent a letter of emplacement to Spain calling for urgent measures to protect the Llobregat Delta, and to prevent the further deterioration of this protected area, following enlargements at the airport over the past 20 years. In other words, Europe is opening up files and requires compliance with Directive 92/43/EC, which requires the preservation of Natura 2000 areas. While the Generalitat de Catalunya is working on the extension of the natural reserves and of the ZEPA, the zones of special protection for birds, and it is working on the plan of protection of the natural environment and the landscape of the protected spaces of the Llobregat, Aena, we do not know if by order of the State, it launches a proposal of extension of the airport of Barcelona, El Prat, which affects a zone of natural protection of flora and fauna, the lagoon of La Ricardo. In this context, what credit do you think your Government has when it comes to supporting the proposed enlargement proposed by Aena? What does the Ministry of Ecological Transition think of this proposal? When are they going to inform the Government of the Generalitat of their technical specifications? In Catalonia we want investments, yes; improving the connectivity of the airport; being able to have more quality flights, but above all, the management of the infrastructure. And all this must not be in conflict with an environment-friendly policy. If they really bet on it, at this point the Government would already have the technical information necessary to be able to assess the real possibilities of the action; otherwise, it is inevitable to think that they are playing with the public, making us believe the Catalans, the companies and the citizens that there is a sincere interest in putting the Catalan airport infrastructure up to a greater international economic impact, when they are actually fireworks, and basically what they intend to do is to justify the realization of a new multimillion dollar investment in Barajas.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-16-CD210616.u80	Madam Fourth Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-16-CD210616.u81	Thank you very much, President. Thank you very much, Your Honor. You begin your intervention by pointing out something that is true; it is true, it is up to us to manage everyone. It is a mandate of the Constitution to protect the maritime-terrestrial public domain of the coast, guaranteeing in all circumstances its good condition and the possibility of access to public ownership of this domain. And it is also true that the European Commission, on 18 February, sent us a letter of formal notice on a possible breach of Spain's obligations under Article 6 of the Council Directive on the conservation of natural habitats of wild fauna and flora, on the grounds that adequate measures had not been taken to prevent pollution or deterioration of habitats or any alteration which significantly affects the populations of protected bird species in which ZEPA of Llobregat was designated. We believe that this is obviously a relevant issue, the delimitation and management of the ZEPA of the Llobregat Delta is, of course, the competence of the Generalitat of Catalonia, and it is true that a state-owned infrastructure such as the Barcelona airport converges on it, which must properly assess the impacts and take the appropriate corrective measures. That is why we are waiting for something that we know they intend to do: after having responded to the Commission's letter, Aena, in coordination with the Generalitat, is evaluating an analysis of the current situation, in particular of the car parks and their possible interference with the ecological connectivity of the areas that form the part of the Natura 2000 network in the Llobregat delta, and they have committed themselves to taking, at the end of this analysis, the measures of full or partial renaturalisation of the area to ensure the full functionality of the ecological corridor. This is the additional question that you raise, and on which I believe the President of the Government has convened precisely a table, in which my colleagues from the Ministry of Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda participate, to assess whether or not it is appropriate to adopt any measures relating to the enlargement of El Prat. I will tell you that it is important to know the opinion of the Government of the Generalitat on this matter. And I'll also tell you that I know that all those possible involved in an operation of these characteristics... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-16-CD210616.u82	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President. Mrs. Calvo, are you going to intervene? [[Denials]] Thank you very much. - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF JAIME EDUARDO DE OLANO VELA, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHICH FORMS TO THE LORD MINISTER OF JUSTICE: DOES THE MINISTER OF JUSTICE CONSIDER THAT THE INDULTS TO THE RESIDENCED BY SECTOR WILL FACILITATE EUROPEAN JUDICIAL COOPERATION AND, IN PARTICULAR, THE APPLICATION OF EUROORDEN? [[File number 180/00588]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-16-CD210616.u83	Questions to the Minister for Justice. Question by Mr Jaime Eduardo de Olano Vela, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-16-CD210616.u84	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Campo, what do you think our European partners will think when we see that in a few months we have passed from the 'I will bring Mr Puigdemont to answer to the Spanish justice', which Mr Sánchez said in an election campaign, to the moment when you are going to pardon all those convicted in Spain for the same crimes for which Mr Puigdemont is requested to be extradited? With these 180-degree turns no one can be surprised by Mr Sánchez's lack of international credibility, which became apparent on Monday at that high-level summit of only twenty-nine seconds. Mr Campo, will you allow Mr Puigdemont's arrival to lead the Generalitat not from Waterloo, as it does now, but from Barcelona, as Mrs Belarus has already advanced, without you having denied it to date, for the mockery of all the Spaniards? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-16-CD210616.u85	Minister for Justice.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-16-CD210616.u86	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Olano, I have had to reread the question several times to conclude that I do not know what you are asking me. Look, I mix pardons and international legal cooperation at European level through the OEDE, that's what you're asking me. It mixes pardons, which are an exceptional measure of grace in the hands of the Government, with action, the European arrest warrants, which is strictly judicial. And since I do not know exactly what you are asking me, I will answer you very clearly: You don't have to worry, because cooperation in European matters is working extraordinarily well. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-16-CD210616.u87	Mr. Olano.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-16-CD210616.u88	You still don't deny Mrs. Belarra, Mr. Campo. What has changed in Catalonia lately? Nothing. The same government partners and the same goals today as when ruling the condemned Junqueras and the fugitive Puigdemont. Self-determination and referendum, both illegal objectives, both impossible in our rule of law. One thing has changed, and Sanchez needs them to stay in Moncloa. You are buying time for an exhausted and finished government, and you are doing so at the highest price: weakening our rule of law. Is it worth it to you as a judge to put our democracy at risk for staying in office for a few more months, Mr. Campo? Answer me without evasives and this time don't lie to the Spaniards. In the one hundred and fifty years of the Law of Grace, how many pardons have been granted to convicted criminals who claimed that they would do the same again? None, Mr. Campo. Those condemned for sedition affirm this without modesty, without shame and from now on without fear of the action of justice. It is not only that they have said it in word or in writing, that we now know thanks to the documentation seized by the Civil Guard that they have already designed a new road map that contemplates the commission of the same crimes for which they have already been convicted. Don't you think it's a nonsense, a Fraud to pardon those who plan to commit those same crimes? Mr Campo, you are laying the first stone of the second process and there is no propaganda that can hide it, as the cry of Spanish society against these pardons shows. And Mr. Campo, blaming the PP for the coup in Catalonia is like blaming Suárez of the 23rd, an indignity only within the reach of Mr. Sánchez and all of you. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-16-CD210616.u89	Minister for Justice.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-16-CD210616.u90	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Olano, your question definitely has nothing to do with what you put to me, but I'm not worried because I understand. You've got the idea of pardons like the government kryptonite, but remember how Superman ended up. Your Honor, legal cooperation works extraordinarily. Since we have data, between 2005 and 2018, do you know how many European arrest warrants have been issued? It's been 56,000. Do you know that only in 2018 were 6886 delivered? To see how well it works in Spain, only in 2019 665 orders were issued. We are the second country to capture and arrest the most internationally persecuted. I insist that legal cooperation in the European Union is very good. What's going on? That you like to mix bacon with speed. All right, let's talk bacon and talk speed. But I can assure you that the judges of Europe and the judges of Spain resolve European orders with strictly judicial criteria and based on judicial independence. And pardons are another matter. As you very well know, it is the right of grace. What has happened in Belgium has created a problem of interpretation of the European order, and there is a question raised and will be resolved, and that is the system of law. If they are so concerned about Europe, what they should have done would have been to support last week the European Public Prosecutor's Office Act, a law that, by the way - look at the coincidences of life - was enormously promoted under Mr Rajoy's government, and the People's Party encouraged that idea. Now, when it comes to applying the regulation and establishing the procedure, you forget. Look, be on your toes, 'cause the rule of law doesn't admit cracks. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPUTATE OF JOSÉ ANTONIO BERMUDEZ DE CASTRO FERNÁNDEZ, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHICH FORMS THE MINISTER OF DEFENCE: WOULD YOU PROPOSE TO THE COUNCIL OF MINISTERS THE GOVERNMENT OF AN INDULT IN THE FIELD OF YOUR COMPETITION WITHOUT COMPETITION RELATIONS OF JUSTICE, EQUITY AND PUBLIC USE? [[File number 180/00590]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-16-CD210616.u91	Question by Mr José Antonio Bermúdez de Castro Fernández, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-16-CD210616.u92	Thank you, President. Minister, this question was not addressed to you, but to the Minister of Defence, who I am not surprised that he did not want to answer, taking into account what he wrote in his resolutions when he was acting as a magistrate or the manifestos he signed, who said that granting an pardon for purposes other than those that justified him was a fraud and a rude and misguided use of the institution of the right of grace; a time when the Socialist Party and today President Sánchez Proclaimed to the four winds that will never grant pardons for political reasons and that, if so, they should always count on the favourable report of the sentencing court. We already know what the President of the Government's word is worth on other issues, but here we will give him the opportunity to clarify it. That is why I ask you, Minister: are you prepared to propose to the Council of Ministers the granting of pardons without grounds for justice, fairness and public utility? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-16-CD210616.u93	Minister for Justice.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-16-CD210616.u94	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Bermúdez de Castro, you know that I have you for a great parliamentarian and I regret that the tension your party is experiencing and how you are focusing on the issues lately can cloud your good trajectory. [[Rumors]] I tell you this because you ask a trick question - and you know it very well, because you are a fine jurist - when you use the replacement of the disjunctive conjunction by the copulative. You know very well that articles 11 and 16 of the Pardon Act clearly state that one can be granted when there are reasons for justice, equity or public utility, and you have used one and maliciously. He's never gonna find the government there. I will explain to you, as I said, the reasons for justice, fairness or public utility in the event that this minister considers that they should be proposed to the Council of Ministers. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-16-CD210616.u95	Mr. Bermuda.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-16-CD210616.u96	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Campo, don't worry about my trajectory. Worry more about yours. [[Applauds]] Minister, you can say whatever you want, but the reality is that the pardons you intend to grant are exclusively for political reasons, not for reasons of justice or equity. Both the Public Prosecutor's Office and the Supreme Court have said that pardons should not be granted to those who have committed very serious crimes and not only have not repented, but have expressed their willingness to commit them again. Look, it was Mr Aragonès himself who said he was going to keep the fight against the State and force a referendum to make independence inevitable. Under these conditions, these pardons are a humiliation and indignity that the Spaniards do not deserve, and that will be their sole responsibility. And don't try to justify them in favor of concord. You, Mr Campo, know very well that harmony in democracy is only possible from justice, and never from arbitrariness. That is why the path cannot be the impunity of those who have not repented of their crimes. The way is to protect the constitutional order and the victims of those crimes, which we are all the other Spaniards, whom you are betraying and abandoning in order to continue in Moncloa. It is you who are willing to change principles by power. With these pardons independence wins and the one that loses is constitutional Spain. That is why they will stand before us and we will not be complicit in that decision, and we are where we must stand, alongside reason, justice and with the majority of Spaniards. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-16-CD210616.u97	Minister for Justice.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-16-CD210616.u98	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Bermúdez de Castro, the application of the law never humiliates the one who applies it, because respect for the legal order is what makes us citizens of the rule of law. Proposing a denial agreement to the Council of Ministers or a royal decree of estimation is as well adjusted to law as to each other, because the Constitution allows it and the Pardon Act articulates the mechanism, even with negative reports from the prosecutor's office and the sentencing court. You know very well, because that's how it comes in the law. Moreover, review article 29, which perhaps leads to some surprise. What I am very clear is that parliamentaryism cannot be a trench war. It must be the confrontation of ideas and seek the best for the coexistence of this country. And, of course, with positions like the one you've just done little fighting. What do you mean, that all those who have spoken in favor of one pardon in one way or another are false, lying, immoral, illegitimate or disloyal? No, Your Honor, the truth is not necessarily a single criterion, but to conform to reasons, sometimes of justice and equity and often of public utility. And public utility belongs to the Government under article 97, and you will have every right to criticize it. The use of the instrument, of the institute of pardon, cannot be an arbitrary measure, is a discretionary measure, and in this sense that discretion is the mark of the Government. And what I would like to see is for this country and for the Government to once be put in favour. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF MACARENA MONTESINOS DE MIGUEL, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHICH FORMS TO THE LORD MINISTER OF THE INTERIOR: DOES THE PRIVILEGATED TREATMENT RECEIVED BY SEDITION, AS MUCH BY THE SECRETARY-GENERAL OF PENITENTIAL INSTITUTIONS AS BY THE DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE OF THE CATALAN GOVERNMENT, PREVIOUS OF THE POLITICAL VOLUNTRY TO GIVE INDUSTRIES? [[File number 180/00589]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-16-CD210616.u99	Questions to the Minister for the Interior. Question by Mrs Macarena Montesinos de Miguel, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-16-CD210616.u100	The Government's move to justify pardons has been a complete failure: neither public utility nor coexistence nor magnanimity. They began by giving special and privileged treatment to separatist criminals. Why? Because the only objective pursued by the Government with this is to be able to perpetuate itself in it. Do you consider, like all Spaniards, that this treatment already anticipates pardons? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-16-CD210616.u101	I give the floor to the Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-16-CD210616.u102	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Montesinos. I really appreciate your radical sincerity. In one line it has given you an understanding of what public service is for you. In one line, he has insulted more than 24,000 prison officials, who, in your view, skip the General Penitentiary Act. It has failed to respect prison supervisory judges and prosecutors because they supposedly do not look at or control what prison officials do and, of course, it extends these insults to prison officials in the Autonomous Community of Catalonia. It is a real shame that you have allowed yourself to sign this question, with the permission of your spokesman, when you question thousands of public officials. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-16-CD210616.u103	Mrs Montesinos de Miguel, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-16-CD210616.u104	Mr Marlaska, you have just insulted the intelligence of all Spaniards and especially of prison officials. [[Applauds]] It is truly troubling that the security of the Spaniards is in your hand, because it gives you the same thing if you have to bring elderly prisoners closer to the Basque prisons, if you have to throw out the Navarra Civil Guard or if you have to be pardoned. Let's do a memory exercise. Do you remember when you wore the robe in 2014, when, thanks to your particular vote in the National Court - you will remember that they had surrounded the Parliament of Catalonia - the Supreme Court and the Constitutional Court were able to condemn them? Do you remember? However, now, dressed and imbued with sanchism, you are quite the opposite. How far that 2014 is! Now you, for acts of much greater gravity than those that happened then, because we are talking about sedition and embezzlement, are in favor of pardons. And what happened? That the Supreme Court has removed his reason on this occasion, because that is called self-indulgence. Today you are the personification of the convert's faith: from a jurist of prestige, from a star magistrate to Sanchez's servile squire, betraying the laws and the Constitution, that for which you fought so much and defended so much. That is the reality of the Minister of the Interior today. No one believes the intrusive and lying version of the government anymore, let alone that of the criminal Junqueras, because the real road map of the secessionists is to take the impulse with the pardons to continue challenging Spain in the second stage of the process, as they know the weakness of the government and its lack of scruples. Mr Marlaska, you have indeed placed yourself on the side against public servants. He's stood next to the criminals. Who was going to tell him a few years ago! Everything, everything for a position in the government. Catalans suffer day by day from independenceists. On Sunday the Spaniards told him: not to the pardons cheat, not to the general pardons. Don't despise the Spaniards, listen to them... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-16-CD210616.u105	Thank you very much, Mrs. Montesinos. Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-16-CD210616.u106	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Montesinos. The difference between you and me is that I always apply the law. But I would like to point out to you that you, as Ana Mato's faithful squire for your political career in the Valencian Community - something was said yesterday - may very well confuse what is law enforcement and favor treatment. In the prison case, the application of the law is to perform individual treatment and classification; indeed, it is to follow the indications of the treatment boards, to achieve social reintegration. When, on the other hand, are we dealing with favors? Maybe this does sound more like him. Look, when you give a master's degree to people without going to class or examining themselves, when they appear - this just sounds a little more - high-end cars in an inexplicable way in the garages or when - and this still sounds more - trips or cruises are given. That's a favor deal. [[Applauds]] Both the application of the law and the treatment of favor have consequences. The application of the law clearly it has: always benefit. On the subject of prison, what I have said to you: social reintegration. However, the treatment of favor also has consequences; that treatment of favor that I have pointed out to you, which seems to sound quite familiar to you, and has very serious consequences, because it is the loss of confidence in the institutions. Investment in our country is discouraged and people are discredited and, I say again, institutions as a whole. Those are the clear differences. I hope you have understood the difference between the application of the law, which is what we have done in this Government, and the treatment of favour, which was done in other Governments. [[Applauds]] - OF THE MINISTER OF THE INTERIOR: WHY DO YOU WANT TO ADOPTE A NEW MODEL OF DIGITAL INFORMATION COSTING TO RUIN [[EAJ-PNV]] TO THE PHOTOGRAPHY SECTOR? [[File number 180/000580]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-16-CD210616.u107	Question by Mr Mikel Legarda Uriarte, Member of the Basque Parliamentary Group [[EAJPNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-16-CD210616.u108	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, Minister. At the end of last year his ministry announced the digitization of the DNI, DNI 4.0, with the restructuring and resilience fund. One of the new developments was that photography would be carried out in police units. Minister, he asked: Are you aware that this will lead to the closure of thousands of photo shops and the ruin of thousands of families, in a sector ill-treated by the various crises that are already suffering? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-16-CD210616.u109	Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-16-CD210616.u110	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you, Mr. Legarda. I will start with an appointment, and open quotes: 'It is intended to make services available at any time, from anywhere and through any device. To achieve this, the services will be designed and designed with an approach of simplification and proactivity and the relationship always through the mobile'. I am sure you agree, because it is on page 79 of the Basque Government's Digital Transformation Strategy for Euskadi 2025, which is in line with Law 40/2015. The digital DNI you are talking about is nothing more or less than the implementation by the National Police, which has the exclusive capacity of its expedition, of an element of technical improvement. First, it will allow for more effective data-gathering mechanisms, as well as a reduction in the burden that citizens currently have on obtaining a document that is mandatory, DNI. Plant it that will cause the ruin of the photography sector. I will give you two data from your own employer: approximately EUR 90 million are invoiced annually and 88 % of the invoice does not in any way proceed from the photographs for the national identity document. Therefore, I say again that we understand the security of the DNI at present in a secure digital environment and that there is no problem in the photography sector. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-16-CD210616.u111	Mr. Legarda.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-16-CD210616.u112	Minister, thank you very much for your explanations. He was already partially aware, but wanted to remind him that the digital transformation of photography has led to the closure of 50% of his shops. Today we must add the crisis of the COVID-19, by affecting a sector facing the public and of strong connection with social events; a sector of self-employed people already ill-treated - that is why I said -, very atomized, with little capacity to influence, on which the crisis of the DNI 4.0 is closed, which can lead to the closure of another 30% of shops and the loss of thousands of jobs and self-employment. Minister, the photo of the identity card is a low-cost service for citizens, but with vital importance for the photography business sector; it balances their accounts, because of the importance of their billing and profit margin. In Europe, except in Sweden and Switzerland, it is entrusted with the service of photo shops, without affecting either the safety or the directives or the directive of the new European DNI. France is a good example: it combines security and protection of a sector that is also cultural. Minister, you are in time to make the difference as to what policy is for: to make decisions considering all the factors at stake, to compensate for exclusively bureaucratic and technocratic looks, to keep looking at people and their future, to leave no one behind, let alone with recovery funds; it would be a bitter paradox. That is why, Minister, we ask you to make a difference. Meet with the sector personally. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-16-CD210616.u113	Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-16-CD210616.u114	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you, Mr. Legarda. I repeat that DNI 4.0 is an absolutely important and comprehensive technical improvement project, an initiative that will allow us to have a DNI in a secure digital environment, and it is the only possibility; and it will allow, being a mandatory document, that the whole citizen can enjoy it with all the technical guarantees of security and cheaper, and, if technological development permits, I will not be the one to reduce the national identity document for the whole citizen. I insist on the whole sector, and I agree with you in what you have said, the sectors are also a concern of this government, and the photography sector knows that it has us behind it. But I would like to point out to you that the invoicing resulting from the photograph for the DNI affects no more than 10 % of its total invoicing, and it is a highly professional sector, which will benefit from the support of this government. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-16-CD210616.u115	Question to the Minister for Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda. Question by Mr Gabriel Rufián Romero, Member of the Republican Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-16-CD210616.u116	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning, Minister. What is the Government's view on limiting the rental price?
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-16-CD210616.u117	Minister for Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-16-CD210616.u118	Thank you, President. Thank you, Mr. Rufián. The analysis that we make of the problem in housing in order to make it affordable is basically in supply. Therefore, the measures that this Government and, in particular, this Ministry are considering address three objectives: on the one hand, to control abusive increases in rental prices, declaring areas tense and thus limiting their increase, trying to freeze these rents, as well as to provide another set of measures relating to the extension of contracts, fiscal incentives, i.e. a whole series of measures aimed at curbing this abusive increase; on the other hand, not discouraging private supply, and, on the other hand, increasing public supply. These are the major drawbacks that we have, because, of course, this is a country of small owners, unlike other countries, and we therefore have to prevent the supply from being reduced. On the other hand, in comparison with the rest of Europe, we have a public park of sorry housing, so we have to increase it, and that is why we have set ourselves the target of one hundred thousand public park houses. With these three measures we hope to contribute, but not to solve, to this structural problem that Spain has in the field of housing. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-16-CD210616.u119	Mr. Rufián.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-16-CD210616.u120	Thank you very much. Minister, do you know why I ask you this question? Because twenty-four hours ago you announced, in breach of a previous agreement, that you would bring before the Constitutional Court a law, precisely the Catalan law on the regulation of rent, and the truth is that we were concerned about that. It is true that we cannot celebrate it, but, thanks to the efforts of other platforms and also, why not say so, of this parliamentary group, we have managed to ensure that you will not enter the content or ask for the suspension, so in fact everything remains the same. That's the good news. The bad news is that you are apparently a progressive government; not of rentists, but progressive, so it shouldn't cost so much decent things. And, above all, do you know why I ask you this question? Because yesterday - it is one more - a man was killed, a man of fifty-eight years, a short time before he was removed, because today in this country there is a whole generation to which they ask between one thousand and one thousand and five hundred euros for floors that barely measure a garage square, and either we leave it all to the invisible hand of the market or we try to protect these people. We, as a progressive government, ask you not only to suspend the Catalan law on rental regulation, but to extend it to the whole State. And above all, Minister, as you know, on 9 August this year the extension is over, the moratorium on evictions is over. It is clear that, with which it is falling, it should be expanded. We ask you to do so, because I remind you once again that you are a progressive government, not a rentist. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-16-CD210616.u121	Minister for Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-16-CD210616.u122	Thank you, President. Mr. Rufián, we will be progressive, but we respect the law. It's not incompatible, and one thing shouldn't lead us to the other. As far as the appeal against the provision of Catalonia is concerned, we have no other. If the Council of State Guarantees of Catalonia notes that it is unconstitutional, what we cannot do is go against the organs of the Generalitat. That is absurd, and that is why we have respected even that opinion, not by entering into the substance, but by demanding something that you demand from us, and that is that we regulate leases, which, in short, is a competence of the State. I am not going to talk about evictions because I do not think it is right to use a case like this, which will undoubtedly be complex but which in any case demonstrates personal insecurity not only in relation to housing, but also with employment and many other circumstances and in which, on the other hand, many other services have intervened, which are not of the Government, because this is a competence of the autonomous community, and in this sense I must say that in the State Housing Plan this Government, which is not competent in housing, has contributed to Catalonia 209 million, and Catalonia only 62 million. Let us make a little more effort, especially for those who are competent. As for the decree, the idea is to try, outside the pandemic, because we will no longer have that excuse, anticipate what is... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-16-CD210616.u123	Thank you very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-16-CD210616.u124	We are now dealing with the appeals addressed to the Government. Urgent inquiry by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress in Congress on the rise of the electric bill. For your defense, Mr. Marshal Anaya has the floor. [[Rumors]] Wait a minute, Mr. Marshal. I ask you, please, to take your seats and keep a little silence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-16-CD210616.u125	Thank you, Madam President, twice in this case. When they arrived at the Government, Madam Vice-President, in their government programme, in their coalition programme, they said that they were not going to leave anyone behind - that is what they were saying - and that they were going to rectify and reform the electricity bill so that it was an accessible primary good and that families or businesses would not be punished for the price of this good. [[The Lord]] Since you are Vice-President of the Government, from 7 June to today, or, rather, until 1 June, you have increased electricity in our country by 44%. [[A Member: What a barbarity!]] And I said until June 1 because you on June 1 installed, created, implemented a reform that has brought disastrous and unfortunate consequences for families and the Spanish economy. Look, look, if we look at the difference between 25 May, when this reform was not yet in place, and its subsequent implementation, we see that there are timetables with increments of more than 73%, Madam Vice-President. [[shows a graph]] If it were possible for me to look at the chart, I'd appreciate it, so I'd know what I'm talking about. In addition, today is a special day; today, June 16, at 8:00 p.m., at 8:00 p.m., the Spaniards will pay the electricity bill, most expensive in history, Madam Vice President. Today at 8:00 p.m., the most expensive in history! 26.2 cents per kilowatt hour. [[Applauds.-A honourable Member: What a barbarity!]] Sarcasm or irony - I no longer know exactly what adjective or what word to apply - is that today the President of the Government meets with the President of the Commission in the Electric Network. In other words, Ursula von der Leyen meets Pedro Sánchez in the company that serves us all as a reference for knowing prices and technology cassation. What's Pedro Sánchez doing there? To show Ursula von der Leyen why do we have the most expensive energy in Europe, Madam Vice-President? Is that what you're going to do? Why do we have the price that is historical record? I find that an unacceptable sarcasm, Madam Vice-President. Look, you're applying this reform without explaining anything to the Spaniards. He didn't report anything! Six times, two types of power, without any previous explanation! And most seriously: that figure of 26 cents/kilovatio hour applies also to the social bonus; that is, that the discount introduced by the People's Party from 25 to 40% on the bill for vulnerable families - 1 400,000 contracts, 1 400,000 families! - you too punish it with the most expensive bill in our country's history. You decide what's good without listening to anyone at all. Try to inculcate habits that you find convenient, knowing that these habits cannot be changed automatically. Therefore, it calls on the Spaniards to turn off the most expensive energy when they need it most, in those peak hours where more electric energy is consumed. You and I also believe that the decarbonisation of the economy goes through a greater weight of electricity and renewable energy. Obviously, Madam Vice-President, but I ask you: by raising the price of electricity do you encourage your consumption? Does this seem reasonable to you? With this reform - and it is important for the Spaniards to know this - in the hours when we have the most capacity to introduce renewable energy, in the hours when we have energy at the lowest cost, in those hours you have made us have the most expensive energy. Look, this is given because it has achieved that in peak hours, that is, when there is more consumption, from ten to two in the afternoon and from six to ten in the evening, the political costs, the charges - which I will now talk about - are more heavy than energy. In other words, a Spaniard will pay more for the poor energy policies of the Socialist Party than for the energy they consume, Madam Vice-President, and you know that too. [[Applauds]] You wanted it that way because in the energy section - not in the installed power but in the energy, in what we consume - you have placed 75% of the charges. What are the charges? The result of the poor energy policies of the Socialist Party: 6100 million for the entry into operation of renewable energies not sufficiently competitive, paying the learning curve to other countries; 25 billion euros a year in tariff deficit. Their bad policies, those are the charges, and they make them pay in the hours of increased consumption to increase VAT collection and the collection of 5% of electricity tax. That is what you do with this initiative, transferring your bad energy policies to consumers, to families, to businesses, to the competitiveness of businesses, to the self-employed, to SMEs; that is what you have done with this reform in which you have not consulted anyone at all. We put on the table an initiative, an articulated text of automatic reduction of the electric bill. They didn't pay attention, they didn't accept it, they didn't accept it, they didn't accept it, they didn't accept it, they didn't accept it, they didn't accept We asked for three things: the abolition of the generation tax of 7%; that the tariff deficit, that the error of its policies that led to 27 billion deficits in 2012 - almost to the bankruptcy of the Spanish electricity system - were transferred to the budgets, because that is your responsibility, Madam Vice-President, cannot transfer this deficit to consumers, is unfair. By the way, I hope that the Members of Podemos will come forward with this increase in electricity. Not now, when Pablo Casado is president of the government, I imagine it will be then when the deputies of Podemos will manifest for an ascent like the one we have met. [[Applauds]] With these two measures, coupled with the fact that 100% of the costs of generating electricity in the Canary Islands were transferred to the budgets, we would have achieved a 10% savings in the bill for families and businesses. That's what you rejected, too. We live in a permanent inconsistency with their reforms. You have - remember - been at the head of the ministry for three years, you have had more than enough time. On the one hand, it brings us a national fund for the sustainability of the electricity system, that is, that the costs of renewable energy, which the socialist governments have introduced badly, on time and with extra cost to the consumer, are passed on to those who consume gas and fuels. That's the idea. And I ask you: have you informed the sectors directly affected? What's going to happen to agriculture? What about aviation and tourism? How do you intend to make it up to them? He didn't explain it. What happens to industry, which exceeds 11% of national GDP? On the one hand. And in an absolutely contradictory and unknown attitude in Europe, they draw up another law, another preliminary draft by which those technologies that do not emit CO2 have to pay for it, or do not enter it. That is, nuclear energy, hydraulics and wind before 2005 that do not emit CO2 cannot benefit from a high price and, therefore, cannot receive these revenues, punishing nuclear energy, on the one hand, wind... By the way, in the case of windmills, it's reasonable. The Members of Podemos know that they are protesting against the mills in Galicia, that is, that I believe this is going so far. That's not the way, Madam Vice President. As far as nuclear energy is concerned, its obligation is to ensure nuclear safety and the radiological protection of persons. The Spaniards should know that spent nuclear fuel is in warehouses in the power stations, in the cooling pools, not in a centralized warehouse, as you know they should be, and this measure was approved here. Do you know how much it costs the warehouse not yet built, Madam Vice President, because of you? Do you have an approximate calculation? I will tell you: EUR 342 million, which we pay all the Spaniards. Do you know the damage you've done to wind power with this initiative, the level of disinvestment? They've met with you, you know that. Who will want to invest in Spain in renewable energy? How are we gonna get six gigawatts a year? Who will want to invest in Spain if you suddenly show up at a rate like this, which is also unknown because the price of CO2 is on the market? By the way, the European Regulation on the Funds - and you know it - speaks of the fact that there can be no significant damage to the environment, or that there can be no reform. And I ask you: do you believe that this initiative is causing damage to the environment or not, harming the installation of renewable energy in Spain? He won't answer, I know. And then there are the interconnections, that is, the ability of us to export national renewable energy to the European environment in order to achieve price convergence and, therefore, the competitiveness of our economy. What have you done in three years? Nothing. Nothing. The 2,8% interconnection is the one that was found and will probably leave. What about the industry? Minister Reyes Maroto - she's not here today, by the way - talks about industrialists having to be patient because it's going to take a while to get the reform. Patience, when the average energy price is 35 euros above European competitors! To these people you tell patience and bring them an electro-intensive status that is infumable, which has brought with it the closure, for example, of Alcoa and another series of industries. But do you not realize, and I have told you repeatedly, that without basic industry, without steel, without copper, without cement, there can be no transition, or if there is one that is more expensive because we have to import those goods, Madam Vice-President? Let's talk about the beneficiaries because, of course, I've been thinking for a week that someone benefits from this. Of course I do! What about self-consumption, Madam Vice President? What about self-consumption? They won't pay the nets, they don't pay the cables from where the energy is made, from where it is generated, where it is consumed because they have their own energy. Can we all consume ourselves, Madam Vice President? Can we all do it? Is this initiative for the general interest or for a few only? You're talking about charging the electric car. Okay. Who can buy an electric car today? How many Spaniards? What percentage? And, above all, people who have double residence because those who have double residence pay less, not as it used to. Who benefits from all this? Do you realize the transfer that is taking place from wealth to wealth?
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-16-CD210616.u126	Your Honor, you must go ahead and finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-16-CD210616.u127	I expect your answer, Madam Vice-President, because you have a chance here. He has eleven minutes for us to finally know what the ultimate reason for this reform is and how he intends to reduce the insurmountable cost for Spanish families and businesses. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-16-CD210616.u128	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] I now give the floor, on behalf of the Government, to the fourth Vice-President and Minister for the Ecological Transition and the Demographic Challenge.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-16-CD210616.u129	Thank you very much, President. Thank you very much, Your Honor. The truth is that your intervention is a perfect example of what represents for you a sector as important and as systemic for the well-being of people and the economy as energy is: a list of bumps and incongruities that forgets many important things and takes the anecdote for the whole. I will try to intervene by answering what seems right to me to answer, starting with a strong answer. Yes, we are extremely concerned about the evolution of electricity prices, gas price forecasts, CO2 price forecasts and, above all, we are concerned about their impact on the receipt of families, industry and SMEs. And it is a concern that has marked us from the Government for three years now. We have worked from day one on a structural change to facilitate quality efficiency and clean energy at low and predictable prices. Three years building a stable framework, tackling the root problem for a transition with a medium and long-term vision, without forgetting, without neglecting, the effects that may arise in the short term as a result of the transformation. So I'm glad that you theoretically care about this subject. We would have liked to see them act when they had the opportunity, because I remind you that what you did was to ban the shutdown of dirty and deficient power plants that cost electricity; they opposed the adoption of efficiency measures; they decided to look elsewhere at nuclear energy, without updating the contributions that facilitate Enresa to cover the costs associated with waste storage or dismantling; they adopted retroactive measures that, in addition to undermining the confidence of investors in Spain, have caused claims in international arbitration courts of the amount close to 10 billion; they even penalized those citizens who wanted to install plates on their roofs, applying the famous and shameful sun-tax. And yes, we have a structural problem: it is called fossil fuels; they are the most expensive and they are the ones that mark the price that is paid for all the electricity in the wholesale market, either directly, or because other technologies choose to offer by incorporating the opportunity cost that they have to calculate how much more they can earn by bringing their offer closer to the costs of the most expensive technology, of natural gas. That's why he doesn't give up on anecdotes. Most importantly, the only structural measure must be to stop dependence on fossil fuels as soon as possible. We have dedicated ourselves to this and, in 2018, it represented more than 25% of our electricity generation; today it reaches 13% and yet it is those who mark those prices that scare us so much; it is those who mark those prices that fall as a slab on families and industry. It applies to the whole of Europe, reaching historical records and in a particularly serious way in the Iberian market, mainly because we have less capacity to dilute and interconnect, although, however, we continue to bet on that work, overcoming technical difficulties, but we know that this forces us to think about storage. Structural action to reduce these prices does not involve transferring the costs of the electric consumer to the costs of the State General Budgets, because it pays the same and continues to benefit the same. It consists of establishing a reasonable, stable, affordable system that lasts a long time; it requires those whose benefits are triggered by the current market design, to share the dividend that CO2 generates with the consumer as a whole, leading to a transformation that is enormously beneficial to all, which cannot be unfair to the most vulnerable in the years of transition. In this Government, we believe that the cost of contamination must be paid by the polluter, and we are not prepared to be unjustly paid by families or to be able to finance the enormous benefits of clean energy. We believe that we should address some of these issues clearly, with new decisions. We have driven clean and efficient generation, boosting the emergence of new players, looking for successful auction models - by the way, leaving aside that PP model that acted as a brake on price reduction - and a new design that will allow prices to be 43% cheaper, as they enter the system. We know that the fixed costs of the system must also be reduced, those covering transport and distribution infrastructures, renewables and cogeneration premiums; measures that were pioneering at the time and to which we must continue to respond. But this cannot be done at the expense of the taxpayer. We believe that we should flatten the congestion of the network in order to avoid over-dimension in transport and distribution infrastructures, as the CNMC reflected in its proposal; and the Government offers, proposes, to give more weight to the variable part associated with consumption in order to encourage savings and efficiency, rather than the previous model in which everyone, regardless of their income, consumption or capacity, pays equally according to a fixed term in our invoice. We have therefore referred to them a bill which aims to reduce the burden of charges on our bill; they must be covered by gas and oil gradually and the professional consumption of agriculture is obviously excluded from the industry. That is the object of the National Fund for the Sustainability of the Electrical System, which you will have to discuss these days, these weeks. The sum of these contributions, plus the contribution of the draft minority law, will allow for a reduction of more than 15% in the consumer bill. I was surprised to see that an amendment to the solvency bill was published in this House's official bulletin on 7 June, in which the People's Party suggests that, within a maximum of three months, the Government introduce a bill to reduce the undue CO2 revenues associated with non-broadcasting marginal technologies. Now it turns out he doesn't like it, talking about contradictions and talking about versatility with regard to political positioning and its proposals. The truth is, you don't deprive yourselves of any. There remains a third key block in government action, taxes. We need an in-depth review to give congruent signals. Pay those who contaminate, pay more those who contribute most to the effort or consumption of our environmental resources. In this process, the European Union is joined by the revision of the Directive on taxation of energy products and electricity. We must reform taxes to give signals that favour electrification and efficiency, and that are fair in cost-sharing. A serious and non-improvised analysis, an assignment on which the Minister of Finance has been working together with the Committee of Tax Experts. While this is happening, while we are looking for a solvent response, it is obvious that this government must be sensitive and concerned about consumers, so we do not rule out interim measures until the reform of our energy taxation is thoroughly, rigorously and consistently addressed. We have already done it and we will probably have to do it in the immediate future. This Government is very clear that the energy transition is the only way to relaunch our economy, make it resilient, generate industry, reduce energy prices and be more competitive, but the transition must be fair to workers, also to consumers, industrial and domestic. Fair transition with industry. For this reason, we have paid particular attention to industry, significantly reducing the charges associated with its consumption; offering high public coverage for long-term bilateral procurement, to the point that we have moved from being the European desert in bilateral procurement to the most important bilateral procurement place in the industry, thanks to the public coverage of those contracts; seeking greater efficiency in the energy consumption of the industry, through the National Energy Efficiency Fund; seeking and contributing to CO2 compensation. Obviously, in the circumstances in which we are, I am pleased to announce that, together with the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Industry, we will provide an additional 100 million euros of compensation to meet the costs of CO2 in the industrial sectors. But the measures, in order to be effective, must be able to be contrasted. I wasn't gonna do it, but since you're pulling out a square, I'm pulling out another one. [[Show a chart]] We find that there has never been such a large drop in the price differential between France and Germany as in the last two and a half years. Who buys electricity today for 2022 and 2023 in Spain already makes it cheaper than in France and Germany. In fact, since 2018, the differential with the German case has been reduced by 75%, and in the French case, we already have a positive differential for Spain, regardless of the dystonias of the last few days. We're very worried. We are focusing all our efforts to ensure that the energy transition is fair, without shortcuts; we are also supporting Spanish households, with a strengthening of social measures, of the social bonus, of the electric bonus, with that preliminary draft law of reduction, to allow the administrations to finance by 50% the invoice of more than 350,000 households, adding to the 1,5 million already existing ones, contribution that must make possible the participation in the carbon dividend of the companies; adding, in the recovery plan, the additional investments to facilitate the change in our homes, with more efficiency, more self-consumption and more storage capacity behind the counter or participation of the local energy communities. We are facing a process of profound change. We will review and adopt the exceptional interim measures that are necessary, but do not make noise, do not confuse with anecdotes what requires structural and fair systemic responses. It is not fair to think that they continue to win the same and that it is the domestic electricity consumers or the domestic tax payers who suffer this disproportionate increase in profits or this disproportionate maintenance of the insurmountable cost associated with fossil fuels. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-16-CD210616.u130	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Anaya has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-16-CD210616.u131	Thank you, President. I was bringing in the written intervention, Madam Vice-President. This is a debate. I've asked you a few questions, why don't you answer them? He's read it all the way to the dumpster! Really, and you know that I personally have intellectual respect for you, I don't understand this; it doesn't make sense. Here we come to discuss a problem that is key, capital for our country, and has slipped away by that new philosophy of the modern 21st century, which consists of 'I'm worried, we're working, but it's difficult'. Man, the social bonus affects 1,400,000 families. What are the proposals you have not to turn up the light? It seems that we must applaud him for this result. Today, at 8:00 p.m., the world record for energy prices in Spain will be broken, for God's sake! [[Show a chart]] He has not proposed anything, he has not said anything at all, especially about the social bonus. Then he said I'd say jackhammers. Tell me one single fact that I have given you that is not true; one single fact. The challenge, just one piece of data. It has distorted reality, it has said that you have brought renewable auctions. I remember: 2016, 2017, 8000 megawatts renewable at no cost to the Spaniards. [[Applauds]] Do you remember that? If it's not that nobody's going to stay behind, it's that we're going to stay in the dark! Why have you put charges in energy consumption? Why do we Spaniards have to pay for their bad energy policies in our energy consumption? Why? Also gasoline, the highest price in the last seven years. [[Show a chart]] But do you realize what this means for the family economy and for the competitiveness of our economy? Are you aware of that? It's just that I don't think it is. Do you know what the problem is, Madam Vice President? There is no evaluation of any measures. You throw the ideas and see how they go. This is not how it is governed; the sectors are heard, the opposition is spoken to, the measures are presented, the measures are studied and approved, that is the course of such a transcendental initiative as that which you have carried out. He says the industry is delighted. What industry? Because my parliamentary group meets with all sectors every month. Who's happy? Why did you close Alcoa? But do you not realize that when an industry closes, what remains is a hole, that there is no way to replace economically or richly what the disappearance of an industry entails? There are measures that we have proposed to you. For example, why not allocate 25% of what is collected for CO2, 200 million euros, to help industry? Why don't you? What an obsession he has with the industry! It's just an obsession. As one of my colleagues said now, it seems that you should applaud him because the light has risen. I mean, are you really proud? Because, if you are proud, I begin to think you are foolish, because, in the opinion of this parliamentary group, this price of electricity is unsustainable in time. [[Show a chart]] And you know what's wrong? That with what you have approved will be sustainable, because there is no way to modulate it. Families cannot buy the appliances you say, nor can they change the habits from night to morning. Or what are they doing? What do people who work early in the morning do? What about telework? The people who work at home you've made your job more expensive. Are you aware of the measure you have applied? And answer me: Who do you benefit from this? Second question: Is there an economic assessment of its impact? Third question: What reforms do you intend to take because this is unacceptable? Fourth question: Why does the proposal we have put to you seem unacceptable to you? Why? Justify it. Why does everyone think it's the right measure and you don't? Maybe it's because it puts the People's Party on the upper left bank. Please think, Madam Vice-President, think and give answers. It assumes its responsibility and does not transfer it to consumers, that is its obligation. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-16-CD210616.u132	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] To conclude the debate, I have the floor on behalf of the Government, the fourth Vice-President and Minister for the Ecological Transition and the Demographic Challenge.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-16-CD210616.u133	Thank you very much, President. Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. It's just that you're a fantastic example, you don't have to answer it because your replica confirms your driveway attitude. He goes back to the anecdotal and simply confirms that his sources are neither official documents nor interventions - he has not even paid attention to what I have answered - but that they are the various chats and chats. I recommend that you read the impact reports and reports that were prepared for the application of this tariff. They are in the hands of everyone and available on the web. If I had, I would know perfectly well that it is not true, that it is not associated with a different pricing an increase of the invoice, yes the price of the energy on which it has dared say little. It would have been very interesting to know what you think about what expensive energy, cheap energy and how the market can be reformed. That's important. Read more reports and less trash. You constantly pervert reality and confuse people, and this seems frustrating to me. We would love to be able to talk to you about energy because I think it is an absolutely critical issue. Nor has he paid attention to what I was saying, because I said here that in the coming weeks we will increase, we generate an additional credit of EUR 100 million for the additional compensation to the industry for this increase in CO2 costs. And I remind you that you did not have it, that you did not see with good eyes that a specific forecast is incorporated into the Climate Act whereby every year 25% of CO2 revenue can be allocated precisely to offset these costs of industry. Nor have you been aware of how I have shown you that from the very significant increase in the electricity price differential with Germany and France, which occurred during the years you were in the government, we have moved to the most important historical reduction of that differential with France and Germany in pool prices. And it is obvious that we have to continue to do many things and it is obvious - I said - that structural problems are not solved by changing from the 'public money' cubicle of the budget to the 'public money paid by consumers' cubicle. Structural reforms such as the ones we are undertaking are needed. Nor have you paid any serious attention to what Mr Nadal's auctions meant, because what they meant expressly was the impossibility for consumers to benefit from the spectacular fall in prices of renewable energy in the whole of the energy sold in the pool, because it operated at a very high minimum ground price, always at the marginalist price of the pool. That is why we have been so successful in adapting the auction system to what is happening in the rest of the European countries, with a very significant reduction in that stable price that ensures the viability of the investment, but an important benefit for consumers who can access cheaper energy as these investments are integrated into the electricity system. Nor can it be seen that it has particular interest in answering the question of how we do to address the costs of nuclear energy management; how we do to address that lack of security and confidence in our committed country through the international arbitration tribunals, which we have had to undo all these years. I insist, together with the important structural measures that we are undertaking, that we are sensitive to the short-term measures, which is why, together with a serious reform of energy taxation, it is not impossible to rule out that, in a tense situation like this, we have to do again what we already did at the time, the suspension of some of the tax elements on an exceptional and provisional basis, but seeking to make it easier for consumers to cope with an invoice that is attributable to a real increase in costs, but rather to an increase in the costs of those fossil fuels that we have to get rid of, which disproportionately benefits almost 90% of the electricity produced without incurring those costs. It is good that our companies, our investors, have profitability; it is not reasonable for weaker consumers to pay for this in the transition. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-16-CD210616.u134	Thank you very much, Vice President. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] - THE REPULICIAN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, ON THE LEGISLATIVE INITIATIVES OF THE GOVERNMENT TO FRENCH THE AMENDMENT OF THE OVERSEAS. [[File number 172/000120]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-16-CD210616.u135	Urgent inquiry by the Republican Parliamentary Group into the Government's legislative initiatives to curb the threat of the ultra-right. For your defence, Mr. Rufián Romero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-16-CD210616.u136	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good morning, Minister. The advance that this intervention has no more purpose than to try to reflect and see if we can reach common suspicions. I think there will be few answers, but yes many questions, many common suspicions, and also because it seems to me a good idea to spend some time on Wednesday morning, now that we are almost alone to discuss this. It does not have much more; it is, I repeat, suspicions that I believe that all the lefts, beyond our flags, can reach. The first - for me it is almost obsessive - is how it is possible that the right, the ultra-right, embodied in the figure of Ayuso has won the elections. - I've said it many times when I talk about the differences between Ayuso and Monastery. The Monastery is Ayuso at four in the morning, there is not much difference. The question is how it is possible that a right-wing, ultra-right-wing party has won the elections indisputably in an autonomous community as important as Madrid with a rather chilly slogan and that ten or fifteen years ago would have passed almost unnoticed. No one would have imagined, especially from the left, that the right would win with a slogan that said 'communism or freedom'. They won today. How is it possible that they make their own a concept as beautiful but as misinterpreted as freedom? The first question, perhaps, that we have to ask ourselves is what is freedom and, above all, what is the freedom offered by the right and the right to the working class. Because here the question we have to ask ourselves is how it is possible that in a working-class neighborhood of Madrid, Barcelona, in its time of Brasilia, Detroit, Bolsonaro, Trump, Abascal, Ayuso will be voted on. How is that possible? In the end, is freedom to do or is it to be? It seems to make us free, for example, to go to an airport and take a plane and go anywhere on the planet, to any country on the planet. There are people who could sell it as freedom. But what's the point of going to an airport, taking a plane and being able to go anywhere on the planet if we don't have to pay the ticket? Don't you? It seems that being free is choosing between one hundred and fifty different sets of four different audiovisual platforms. That seems to make us free. But what's the point of choosing between a hundred and fifty series if we don't have to pay for the light then? Don't you? Ergo, maybe freedom is not being able to do, but it is being able to be. More questions, is anyone really free if you don't have to eat, if you don't have to dress, if you don't have a place to sleep? Next question, what is the freedom offered by the right and the right to the working class? Freedom between sleeping under a bridge or under a portal. If you feel bad, if you're sad, if you're depressed or depressed, buy yourself a Diazepam box or a self-help book. Sharing burgers, with a bike or with a motorcycle; that is the freedom offered by the right and the right to the working class. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-16-CD210616.u137	Your Honor, just a moment, please. Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet. There's an insistent murmur that bothers to speak.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-16-CD210616.u138	Thank you, Mr. President. But then, how is it possible - as I have said before - that there is so much mouse voting for cats? How is it possible that there's so much gazelle listening to lions? How is that possible? And the answer is terrible. First, because there are a lot of people who think they vote in favour of their principles, even if it is against their interests. An example, American first. Who can be against your country being the first, the best? But more questions, what is a homeland?, really what is a homeland? From my point of view I believe that the left, I repeat, beyond our flags, we have to understand that there are many people in our respective countries who do not get excited by the same symbols as us. There are many people, for example, in Catalonia, who do not get excited by a stellate. There are a lot of people in Catalonia who don't know Els Segadors, there are a lot of people in Catalonia who don't even think, don't feel, don't speak Catalan, me. Perhaps, then, the lefts have to talk and it is not strategy, it is part of our stories, of our DNA; perhaps the lefts have to talk about what unfortunately shares the vast majority of our peoples, which is precariousness, exclusion, unemployment, the struggle for feminism, the fight against climate change. In short, fill the flags with content, because if we do not see again how a working-class neighborhood in Brasilia votes for Bolsonaro, how in a working-class neighborhood in Detroit they vote for Trump or how in a working-class neighborhood in Madrid or Barcelona they vote for Ayuso or Abascal. More questions. Is anyone really free if they're not well informed? Maybe not. Surely you and the people who are listening to us know working class people, good people: neighbors, friends or family members who are much more angry at what Paul Churches charged for their position, or you, Minister, or me. I charge the same as the three hundred and fifty Members here, huh? But maybe there are a lot of working-class people who are a lot more pissed off about what you and I are charging for our public office than because a king is running away with hundreds of billions in tax havens. How is that possible? How is that possible? So, is anyone really free if they're not well informed? Is someone really free if he only has time to know what time he has to get to the queue of unemployment or what time he has to get to the queue of the Food Bank, which is even worse? And what is being well informed? What's it like to have time? What is journalism? I have said it many times: Journalism is to say that there are those who say that the Earth is flat and there are those who say that the Earth is oval or journalism is to say that the former lie? There is a video that has become viral that says something like: Imagine a case, imagine a headline: 'The rabbi of the Warsaw ghetto denounces that the Nazis are persecuting the Jews. Hitler denies it. Does that ring a bell? Another more recent example: 'Nelson Mandela denounces the Government of South Africa's persecution and murder of black people. Pretoria denied it. Does that ring a bell? Maybe it would happen now. Is that journalism? Is that being well informed? More questions, more suspicions. I believe that the lefts have to fight against a slogan, against a mantra, against a slogan that only favors and that empowers the right and the right: They are all the same, they are all the same. I don't think it's the first time in this country that we've lived it and we're sorry. He's phallic and perverse. First, because Anguita, for example, was never the same as Aznar. Second, because if they're all the same, let them all go and stay one for forty years. And third, because just like that mantra, that 15-M slogan comes together around progressive solutions, parties and leaderships, today, with those progressive parties in institutions, can come together around ultra-right solutions and leaderships. And that's extremely dangerous. Fourth, because after that slogan, that mantra, I don't vote anymore. Does this ring a bell? Did you hear that? I don't vote anymore because they're all the same. The mouse trap is already in place. Because in the only places where I really inoculate myself no longer vote is in the working neighborhoods, in the working neighborhoods, because in the right-wing neighborhoods they will always vote. The cone, the goat... they don't care about the candidate. The lefts need illusion and hope, because the lefts-have the flag they have, I repeat - in the future they won't win, we won't win by waves of nationalism. We'll win by waves of hope. Unfortunately, the only day a Seat worker is the same as a Seat manager is the day you vote. The only day that someone who's all day in front of a machine controlling pieces is just like someone who's all day speculating and controlling bags and stocks, is the day you vote. Unfortunately. We'll keep discussing it. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-16-CD210616.u139	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] I now have the floor, on behalf of the Government, for the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-16-CD210616.u140	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Rufián, thank you so much for your tone. It is true that perhaps there are no forums of debate, of reflection, without the tension that has characterized us lately; that is why I doubly thank you for your observation. But there is one thing, I also have to say, and it is an idea that I have repeated on many occasions: the Spanish Government does not make laws against ideologies, however undemocratic they may be. For this reason, I thank you twice for the opportunity to be able to speak in this rostrum of something as crucial to the future of our democracy as is the break-in of the ultra-right and its variants. We speak of a new right, extreme right, national populism, whatever the name; the question is that we know what is behind it and how it affects parliamentary representation and something you alluded to in your words, in the political debate. I think it is a good thing that we speak clearly of what the progress of this type of political force means and, if I am in a hurry, of what is even more relevant, of the negative consequences for our political system of the progress of hate speech, enhanced, as you very well said, by the interference of the fakes and all the mechanisms that you have put forward in your intervention. But I believe that hate speech is undoubtedly the raw material of the far right, which takes advantage of a situation of vulnerability, social discontent and uncertainty with a clear and meridian objective: to feed ideological fanaticism and penetrate within the very framework of the constitutional values and the basic norms of our democratic coexistence. I say this without any blush: the far right is synonymous with retrogression, polarization and denialism, and that is why it is to deny the most elementary freedoms, that freedom to which you referred and on which, in fact, perhaps from time to time we have to review their limits and their nuclear concept. The far right reproduces and advances - I quoted many countries, and I remain with it; I think it is in a global way -, feeding something that I consider the lowest passions through concepts, which also re-green again, as they are: populism, demagoguery and, worse, the pointing to the different. They infuse fear, they infuse it through a very well greased handling machine, inspired by the principles of mass communication and propaganda, simplification, orchestration, single enemy, exaggeration, vulgarization, transfusion, among many others. And yes, the phenomenon of the advance of the ultra-right is not an isolated case, it occurs within the most advanced liberal democracies, perhaps taking a new turn from the 2008 crisis. There are very few countries in the European Union that are saved, and they have so-called ultra-right parties, ultra-nationalists in their legislative chambers. Believe me, there is nothing more to be found in the antipodes of my democratic convictions than the ultra-right and its anti-migration, anti-globalisation, anti-feminist, anti-LGTB and anti-European discourse. However, we have not come here to stone in the public square people who have freely chosen political parties that constantly fuel frantism and hatred. When millions of people across Europe decide to vote on these political options, the question is: Why do they do it? Understanding that, we may be able to change the sign of the times. To understand their reasons, we must understand the strategy of the far right. As the expert on ultra-right populism, Cas Mudde, says, we have allowed the extreme right to determine what we are talking about and how we are talking about it. He differentiated it in his interpellation by referring to the slogan of a last election campaign. There are many examples. They play to say the greatest barbarity to fully enter media agencies, taking advantage of the new communicative logics, digital means or declarative journalism, thus amplifying their message, and what is worse, marking the issues on the agenda of public opinion or, at least, in the published one. We, which can be called moderate parties, fall into the trap, and enter as the elephant in the cacharrerie of Lakoff in its discursive framework. They achieve their goal when a political party like yours and a member of the government like me start talking about it here in Parliament. We give them a parable, and with it we feed and encourage their desire to keep talking about it. We constantly put them in the media spotlight. Sometimes, I confess, it gives me the feeling that we're like the hamster in the wheel. We should stop running behind the last tweet or the last GNP, and stop thinking about how we can counter arguing their delusions and the great damage they cause to our democracy. As FlaviaKleiner explains, the ultra-right is a specialist in intoxicating the debate and forcing the rest to talk about its subjects. [[The lady]] Your Honor, those who know me know that I am - or at least I am trying - a rational, moderate man who is betting on dialogue as a tool for the consolidation of democracy. That getting in the other's place is something I try to practice - I hope with some success - every day. In this particular case, I believe that we fully agree that we reject the postulates of the far right with their setbacks, their nostalgia, their nostalgia for a glorious supposed past that is only in their retrograde idea of what our society should be - specifically, that small, homogeneous, authoritarian and reductionist idea that they have of Spain and Europe - but I regret to say, Your Honor, that I find it more difficult to look for that point of connection that has been derailing in their intervention. I believe that assuming that the government should discuss how to counter the advance of the far right with legal instruments, with legislative initiatives, is to slide dangerously by course that I do not know if to qualify as undemocratic. Our Constitution shapes it, shapes what is called ideological indifference. In other words, our Magna Charter admits any kind of ideology to what happens in other legal systems, such as in German, in which ideologies contrary to the principles of the Constitution are banned, which is known as militant democracy. In our case, even the defence of ideologies contrary to the constitutional order is allowed, always - that is to say - that they respect the established formalities and that they do not fall within the compensable grounds, according to the criminal protection. Spain is not a militant democracy. As I have already said, the Spanish Government does not make laws against ideologies, however undemocratic they may be or may seem. Let us not be like them, who present initiatives to illegalize political formations such as Junt, Bildu or their own party. This is a government that tries to make every act count as sensible, democratic, rising above the misery of the far right. We're not going down that level. Do you know what makes us different from them? In my idea of Spain we all belong; in the idea of this Government, in Spain we all belong, all, all, without excluding anyone; in the idea of the far right they alone belong. In a democratic system, it is up to those who attack and seek to destroy democracy. This government is not going to silence anyone. Moreover, yesterday in this Chamber, consideration was given to the proposed Organic Law on the Reform of the Criminal Code for the Protection of Freedom of Expression. You will agree with me that freedom of opinion and expression is one of the basic pillars of our legal system. In this regard, one of the purposes of the reform that is intended to be carried out is to define more clearly the scope of the offences of expression. To this end, it will be made clear that there can be a crime only when, from the manifestation of a certain idea or opinion, a risk is created for third persons or what the penalists call: the endangerment of a legal good of special protection. The mere expression of opinions, however hateful or despicable they may be, should not or should not be a crime. These expressions also create a risk or danger to individuals or groups, so that what is punished is not the expression itself, but the effects it produces. This is particularly important in the case of Spain, because, as our Constitutional Court has pointed out, and as I have just said, ours is not a militant democracy, which means that we must allow even those expressions that are undemocratic. Or do we suggest that we only ban those speeches that we don't share? I'm sorry to say that neither the Political Parties Act nor the Penal Code are the ways to stop the far right. In that game to which you invited me, I allow myself to offer you a discussion or a reflection, as you yourself described it. Do you know how to stop the speech of hatred, that speech of the far right? With laws. With laws, yes, but with laws that develop civil rights, with laws such as that of dignified death, with laws that protect women victims of macho violence, with laws that bet on a sustainable future for our grandchildren, such as that of climate change, with laws such as that of support for persons with disabilities in the exercise of their legal capacity, which we have recently adopted in this House. The speech of hate is stopped with rights and freedoms, with orderly and safe migratory flows, with greater investment in R & D & i; it is stopped by putting the vaccination process at the speed of AVE - I remind you that almost 50% of the population already has at least one dose of the vaccine -; it is stopped by direct aids to autonomous and SMEs to deal with the consequences of the pandemic, with public policies that do not leave anyone behind, with minimum vital income, with a new school curriculum to enhance the better training of our young people, with ERTE and a long et cetera. In the area of justice, we are also redefining the basic plate of essential public service, with three laws that address people and their needs: the Law on Procesal Efficiency, where there is a clear commitment to mediation and social cohesion, as the problems are resolved by talking before going to court; the Law on Organizational Efficiency, to carry out justice in all parts of this country; and the Law on Digital Efficiency, to be more efficient and to remove obstacles. Because bringing justice to people is watering democracy, it is strengthening it, because it has strong roots but needs care and care. Yes, with all this we win to the far right: breaking down obstacles, denying bubbles and explaining that our idea of Spain is much better than theirs. It is won with the word, with the strength of the arguments of enlightened rationalism and constitutional democracy, because we all know here that fear is the way to the dark side. Let me use the wise words of Master Yoda, because I think he explains very well the method of the far right: Fear leads to anger, anger leads to hatred, hatred leads to suffering. Our task as a Government is to eradicate the fear, uncertainty and negative consequences of the pandemic, and there to prevent the spread of this virus, the virus of hatred. Ladies and gentlemen, we are working on this. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-16-CD210616.u141	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Rufián Romero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-16-CD210616.u142	Thank you very much, President. Minister, I know you from before you became a minister and you are a great parliamentarian; I ask you to let go a little bit. I understand; I understand that you have a prepared speech there, but we are only discussing it and I think it is an interesting topic. I don't ask for a ban, I want to win these people in the polls; I, as a Democrat, will never ask for a ban or illegalization of any party. Interesting things he said I took some note of. I think the time to not talk about them has passed. It could work when Abascal made speeches to a bank in a park with a megaphone for four - as they say here-nostalgic, who are lifelong fascists. Then one could not talk about them, but it is that they are now very mediated; they are 52 - in Catalonia, for example, 11-. I think the time to not talk about them has passed. I wish it worked, huh? I wish it did, but I really think the time to not talk about them has passed. Another shade. Fascism, Minister, for me is no longer a democratic option, it is anti-democracy! We cannot naturalize fascism, we cannot naturalize people who systematically deny, and veto minutes of silence for this reason, that women, for example, because they are women, are killed in this country by dozens. We can't naturalize! They're not a democratic option anymore! And trying to prevent them from entering institutions, which do not have megaphones, it is not censorship, it is self-defense!, democratic self-defence, especially in a country like this. More questions, Minister. Do all views in democracy have to be accepted? I say yes, I say yes. The right to an opinion. If you say that women are less or that blacks are bad, you have the right to say it; your opinion is crap, but you have the right to say it; you have the right to say it, but your opinion is crap. Solutions. I think the left have to provide solutions, which we call a lot'manage the meanwhile', which is sometimes, especially now, terrible. Managing, but that does not mean not transforming, because, if we only manage, we are bureaucrats; we are to manage and to transform. I have said it many times and I say it again today: Catalonia is an extraordinary country, with an extraordinary culture, history and people, but also with extraordinary data of social exclusion. In Catalonia, in my country, there is 36% youth unemployment. In Catalonia there is 18% female unemployment. In Catalonia there are differences in per capita income between very close populations such as Sant Cugat or Badia of 35,000 euros. 4000 SMEs have disappeared in Catalonia over the past year. In Catalonia there have been 10,000 evictions in the last year. In Catalonia, one in three children is poor. In Catalonia there are differences in per capita income between ten-year-old neighbourhoods. And in Catalonia there are a million poor people. And that I know this, that I say this and that mainly I want to fight this does nothing less to me, it does not make me less independenceist, less republican, less lefty, obviously; it makes me more useful and, with which it is falling, I think it is very good to be useful, Minister. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-16-CD210616.u143	Thank you very much, Mr. Rufián. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs Cepeda. To conclude the debate, the Minister of Justice has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-16-CD210616.u144	Thank you, Madam President. Your Honor, I agree with you that the far right is damaging democracy. What I'm no longer so sure is that the methods that you and I can work out fully coincide, but it's not bad either. The rigour of this rostrum and what this House represents makes us measure or try to measure our words, and that is what I am trying to do, not about a word. That's why I've said it a few times, they'll never find me or anyone else in the 'and you'. You know what I think? That of so much playing to see who says the greatest barbarity, we have come to lose the real meaning of words. It is curious that those who reject the values and principles of the Constitution stand today as the highest defenders of the 78th Constitution. They do not understand that this idea of Spain they have is only real in the past with which they feed their nostalgia. But I'm not going to fall into your traps, we shouldn't fall into your traps, let's not devote a minute of our time to giving guavas to values and an ideology that are totally contrary to ours. You ask me about how to stop the far right, and I do an exercise not of imagination but of wide-sightedness. Let us look beyond Europe, to the United States. After suffering what was probably the worst president of the United States in its history and after four years of enormous destabilizing American society and - why not say it - the global order, they now govern Biden and Harris, with the most progressive and Keynesian program since the Roosevelt era. A time of hope is opening up to regain peace and multilateralism on the international stage, and in Europe we have another great opportunity, we have the opportunity to renew that post-war pact of Dahrendorf. Today the President of the European Commission is in Spain to announce the approval of the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan. The Government has presented the most ambitious project since our transition, a project to get up, to fully enter the twenty-first century and consolidate ourselves as a member of the hard core of Europe. This is what the Government is doing, legislative initiatives not to curb the threat of the ultra-right, but to get out of the crisis, to move forward, to be at the forefront of social development, the green economy, equal opportunities and the rule of law. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall end with a reflection. History is told through actions and reactions to each advance in the form of resistance or counter-reform. We have seen it in the historical development of the great transformations within modern societies. This is precisely what is happening today in the face of the progress achieved by the advancement of democracies and the European project. Everything set in motion by enlightened rationalism, modernity and democracy is being questioned by the enemies of progress. Do you know what I'm saying to all of them from this rostrum? That the values that unite us are stronger than the hatred they promote, that union is stronger than division, and that democracy is stronger than authoritarianism. In the face of threats, projects; in the face of blockades, dialogue; in the face of walls, solidarity, and in the face of lies, facts. Let's talk about our idea of Spain, an inclusive and inclusive country, feminist, democratic, looking to the future with illusion, socially and territorially cohesive, a country where no one is attacked for thinking differently, a country where everyone and everyone can, a country that respects, tolerates and welcomes. Our idea of Spain is the best guarantee to curb hate speech. Today Spain is taking a big step towards that idea of a future country. As the President of the Government said a week ago, our aspiration is not to go against each other but to build a new us to get out of this pandemic stronger and more cohesive than ever. When the rulers respond to the needs of the citizenry, there is less chance of creating this breeding ground for lies, populism and the far right. Finally, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, in a few years we will remember the present moment. I really hope that at that future moment you do not have to regret having given wings to the far right. They're wrong about strategy. They are in time to rectify and move on the path of consensus. For the great challenges facing Spain, we also need you. Let us look to the past not with nostalgia but to learn from those who preceded us in this House and made possible the democracy we enjoy today. Let's look at the moon, not the finger, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-16-CD210616.u145	Thank you very much, Minister. [[A cleaning service worker disinfects the speaker's rostrum]] - the VOX Parliamentary Group, on the measures to be taken by the Government to protect Spain's sovereignty vis-à-vis other countries. [[File number 172/000123]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-16-CD210616.u146	We move on to the next item on the agenda. Urgent inquiry by the VOX Parliamentary Group into the measures to be taken by the Government to protect Spain's sovereignty vis-à-vis other countries. Mr Espinosa de los Monteros de Simon has the floor for his defence. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-16-CD210616.u147	Thank you very much, Madam President. I have to start my speech by thanking the VOX Parliamentary Group, its huge and many affiliates and sympathizers - almost four million voters; perhaps they would already be closer to five or six today - the infinite patience, infinite patience you have. To have to listen to how in this rostrum a minister who is part of a government allied with the extreme anti-liberal, anti-democratic left and further removed from the values that have built the transition to Spanish democracy is being questioned by the authentic Catalan separatist fascism and that still allows the luxury of talking that nobody here is threatened and that nobody in Spain is attacked for thinking differently... It seems they have never been in an act of VOX, it seems they have never received a stone, it seems they have never been in our situation. It is a whole evil game, Machiavellian and absolutely lacking any contact with reality. [[Applauds]] But let's move on to what brings us here today. Minister for Foreign Affairs, in January 2020 you took possession of your portfolio as Minister for Foreign Affairs, European Union and Cooperation. Only eighteen months have passed since then, but it can already be said that his Government's foreign policy has not left any territorial conflict undiminished. It began in that same month of January with the illegitimate appropriation of Spanish jurisdictional waters just a few days after its arrival in office. The Moroccan Parliament then passed royal decrees unilaterally extending its maritime border to Spain and Western Sahara; it included in its new delimitation waters which were of Spanish sovereignty in the southern territory of the Canary Islands. The arrival of the coronavirus did not put a brake on Morocco's expansionist policy, it never does. The two regulations, 37.17 and 38.17, concerning the delimitation of territorial waters and the exclusive economic zone, were published in March in the Official Gazette of Morocco. The neighbouring country thus declared, through the fait accompli, to be in possession of the sovereign and exclusive rights of the natural resources of the sea bed near the Canary Islands. This area, by chance, hosts the largest telurium reserve in the world, the Tropic submarine mountain. As you know, tellurium is a fundamental material for the manufacture, among other things, of electric car batteries and solar panels. From VOX we warned you, minister; you told us that peace of mind, perhaps it bothers you because we questioned you for what we then considered a first blow to our territorial integrity. These actions are not just gestures; they have consequences, as evidenced by the fact that these waters have already been delimited as Moroccans for the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations, FAO, and because, as the Canary fishermen warn, these waters already appear as Moroccan waters on the computer that records daily catches. And this is just 7 nautical miles from the Canary Islands. Then, in July, Gibraltar's misconception would come. Madam Minister, Spain was faced with a truly exceptional opportunity to negotiate with the United Kingdom and to end the aberrant, and exceptional, colonial situation, contrary to international law and so damaging to Spain's interests as the status of Gibraltar. Instead, we renounce sovereignty, end up consolidating Gibraltar's position as a veritable fiscal paradise and as an epicenter of international crime. It all began with that bilateral meeting of an entire Foreign Minister of the Kingdom of Spain with the Mayor of Peñón, recognizing an argument that we had never before accepted and thus breaking a position of more than three hundred years of successive Spanish governments in defense of our sovereignty with more or less success. But you, by surrendering to Gibraltar by accepting and assuming a humiliating position for Spain, have also not confined yourselves to just one gesture, you have struck a hard blow to one of the most relevant strategic focuses for our country. The geostrategic importance of the Strait is evident: because it is a bridge and an air platform between continents and because it is the framework of one of the most important points of maritime traffic on a global scale. The territorial deployment of Spain in the area is such that it conditions our international weight; if it is strong, we will have a leading international role, but if it is weak we will be pressured by those who are strong. And the economic damage is enormous. It is said that the colonial situation in Gibraltar is parasitic to Spain, and it is rightly said. Since the opening of the gate, the per capita income of Gibraltarians has grown to the third highest per capita income in the world, just behind Luxembourg and Qatar. But it has grown at the coast of Spain. Gibraltar's economic impact is estimated to cost us more than EUR 1 billion a year. It is well known the discrimination that the Spaniards suffer on the plains and, above all, the important weight they have on the Gibraltarian economy activities that we could call, at least, questionable. The economic activity of the Rock is based on five pillars: tobacco smuggling, tourism, betting houses, tax evasion - in Gibraltar, with 30,000 inhabitants, there are fifty thousand registered companies - and bunkering. The eastern zone of the Strait is an area declared as a special conservation area, but this is not an obstacle for Gibraltar to be considered the capital of the bunkering of the Mediterranean, and that this same year it carried out, in Spanish waters, the transfer of fuel between ships of greater volume made in Europe to date, with a risk, such as that which occurred in February, when it was the discharge of up to 130 tons of fuel to the sea. The Treaty of Utrecht does not grant the United Kingdom territorial waters in the Peñón, and yet the British Navy has been using the Gibraltar base as a workshop for the repair or shelter of nuclear submarines for many years, which is obviously a serious threat to Spain's national security and to the safety of the Spaniards living in the region. Defending our sovereignty in the Strait with determination, Minister, is not a whim; failing to do so undermines our strategic capacities, our economy, our interests and, of course, the environment. Madam Minister, the use of migratory flows as a method of negotiation is not new either. It is public and well-known that both the Kingdom of Morocco and Algeria have historically used illegal immigration as a weaponeopolitics to weaken the negotiating position of both Spain and the European Union. On November 6, 1975, with Franco dying in the hospital, Morocco launched an offensive that received the name Green March. He did not hesitate to use thousands of human lives to achieve political objectives. It organized a large demonstration of more than 350,000 people, with green flags and olive branches, which joyfully went down to the southern border with Mauritania. In 2006, with the crisis of the cayucos, they again used migratory flows as a pressure mechanism. More than 31,000 immigrants from Senegal, Mauritania and occupied Western Sahara arrived in the Canary Islands. The solution given by the then Government was to give more money to the countries of origin, Mauritania and Senegal, and in the case of Morocco, in addition to money, political concessions that inaugurated what was then called a new era of excellent relations with Morocco, in the time of José Luis Rodríguez Zapatero. The authorities of these countries detect moments of weakness in this area in order to relax the agreed and funded migration controls, in order for our country to yield to the pretensions that these States have at all times. In the case of Algeria, the North African country unilaterally expanded its territorial waters in April 2018, including the Spanish island of Cabrera. In the case of Morocco, it is well known that it claims as its own the territories of Ceuta and Melilla, the Peñones de Vélez de la Gomera, Alhucemas and the Chafarinas Islands, in addition to Western Sahara, of which Spain is the administering power by resolution of the UN General Assembly. That same summer, Minister, the VOX Parliamentary Group called for the declaration of the mass arrival of illegal immigrants as a situation of national security interest. Let us remember that our intelligence services warned of the infiltration of jihadist terrorists into those migratory flows. In just 24 hours, more than 800 illegal Algerian immigrants arrived on the Spanish coast, especially those of Murcia and Almería. At the end of the year, he would take the turn to the Canary Islands; a real migratory invasion, organized, logically, with more than 20,000 people arriving in pateras and cayucos to the islands of Tenerife, Gran Canaria, Fuerteventura and Lanzarote. It was then talked about the Canary Islands as the new Lampedusa of Europe. What was the Government's response? It did not implement the National Security Act or guarantee compliance with the purpose of the defence policy, but it did house illegal immigrants in four-star hotels. Faced with this situation, France closed its borders with Spain in order to prevent these illegal immigrants from reaching Gallic soil; in fact, according to published reports, in five months the French authorities returned 15,757 illegal immigrants to Spain. Morocco had taken note and barely a month ago it did not hesitate to throw children into the sea and use them as blackmail to Spain; a full-fledged invasion, as well as the violation of our external border. The excuse in this case, as you well know, was the clumsy welcome of the leader of the Frente Polisario, Brahim Gali, and the response to the statements of the then vice president of the government, Pablo Iglesias, in defense of the Saharan people. The reality is that it is an offensive against a Spain that, unfortunately, perceives as weak, and perceives it as weak because we suffer from an enormous internal weakness. Morocco does not escape the frivolity of a Government that has made the governability of Spain dependent on parties that aim to end it; a Government capable of surrendering and seeking the pardons of those who promoted the hardest blow to its democracy. With what strength will Spain now respond to attacks on its territorial integrity? Weakness of our defence resources, too, because while Spain remains behind NATO in defence spending, Morocco has increased spending by 30% and already reaches 4.3% of GDP in defence spending. Our superiority over our southern neighbours is being reduced to stride steps and there is even the possibility that the Africom command will be transferred to Moroccan territory. And thirdly, international weakness. The deterioration of Spain's international weight with this government is truly alarming. In Europe, where the voice of Spain is not heard, and very particularly in the United States, where we have not ceased to be strategic partners, we have virtually ceased to be partners. As you pursue a feminist foreign policy, our neighbours have applied the rawest realism in international relations. Forty-six years after the Green March, Morocco continues to illegally occupy Western Sahara, without the community ever knowing its sovereignty over it. And Spain's position has been that of respect for international legality, which established a transitional plan to prepare for the holding of the referendum in which the Saharan people chose between their independence or annexation to Morocco. Minister, time, once again, is decisive. Let's start straightening the course, let's take the initiative before it's too late. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-16-CD210616.u148	Thank you very much, Mr Espinosa de los Monteros. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. García. I now give the floor on behalf of the Government to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, the European Union and Cooperation.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-16-CD210616.u149	Good morning, President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning, good morning, good morning. Thank you, Mr Espinosa de los Monteros, for allowing me today to speak from this rostrum about what Spain is doing to protect its sovereignty, which I understand was the object of your inquiry. But I want to start by talking to you about something essential for the government and, of course, for this minister. The Government protects the sovereignty of Spain, but what it wants to protect above all is the life of its citizens and, above all, that of its citizens. And for that reason, she simply cannot accept the gender-based violence that punishes women, she cannot accept that we are already in what goes on in the year 20 victims of gender-based violence. We cannot accept that 1097 lives have been lost in Spain since 2003. We cannot accept one more because it imposes on us respect for its memory and, therefore, we will not accept the banalization of this issue and we will not stop working to combat this scourge, which is gender-based violence, within and outside our borders, through a feminist foreign policy. [[Applauds]] Yes, Your Honor. Your Honor, it is up to the Government of Spain to defend the interests of our country, among which of course is the defence of our security and the security of our borders. And we do. And we do it without hyperboles. And we do it without histrionicism. And we do it without using a cataract of adjectives and adverbs. I want to explain the reality of what the Government is doing to prevent the spread of stories of terror such as those that its group is spreading. We are not facing migratory invasions; we are not succumbing to insurmountable threats; we are not encouraging smuggling; we are not losing battles or renouncing sovereignty. The reality is that Spain has the necessary means to guarantee its security and, in addition, it has the support and solidarity of international organizations to which it belongs. In short, the Government strongly defends the interests and values of our country. Spain has a strategy to do so, the Foreign Action Strategy 2021-2024, which you know because I have presented it to this House and which defines the protection of our security as one of the pillars of Spain's foreign policy. The objective, very clearly described in this strategy, is to ensure human security based on values and principles, with preventive, anticipatory and dissuasive action. The multilateral spirit of our foreign policy is also firmly rooted in security, and for Spain, for four decades now, our security and the security of our coexistence and our democratic institutions have been anchored in the European Union and the Atlantic Alliance. With regard to security, I assure you that the Government certainly does not improvise. That is why a national defence directive has been adopted since last year, defining the risks we face and the strategic scenario in which we move, and putting 14 targets on the blackboard that we respond to with sixteen action guidelines, all of which are very concrete. Simplistic stories about threats may have some reception on some social networks and facilitate certain discourses, but they have nothing to do with reality. The reality is complex, because what we are facing today is multiple risks, which come from various directions and which are given in part because not all the systems that exist in the world are democracies, as is Spanish democracy. There are threats to our cybersecurity, hybrid, asymmetric threats, disinformation campaigns and increasingly sophisticated disruptive technologies that are used for malicious purposes. The proliferation of weapons of mass destruction also remains a threat, which, by the way, is one of the reasons why, in a few days' time, we are hosting a Stockholm Initiative ministerial meeting on nuclear non-proliferation in Madrid, Spain. Returning to our sovereignty and interests, the Government is also concerned about climate change, in which it sees a threat. I do not know whether you are aware of what the last barometer of the Elcano Institute said about the fight against climate change, which is the main priority for our citizens in the field of foreign policy; it is for 36% of them, ahead of their second priority, which is investment in development aid, which is for 34% of them. I don't know, maybe it's not for your group, I don't know, because you voted against the recent Climate Change Act. Combating climate change and inequalities in our environment is the best way to protect our sovereignty, and we are doing so. This definition of the risks we face, which I have just mentioned, and in particular climate change, has become very clear in the final communiqué of the NATO summit in Brussels this week. I would recommend your reading, it is in point 3, and you will see how the most powerful alliance in the field of security and defence puts climate change as one of the fundamental risks to our security and sovereignty. In recent months, the NATO alliance has clearly identified the risks we face and collected them in a 2030 NATO document. That is why Spain has supported this document and is going to work not only to launch it, but also to develop a strategic concept based on this document that NATO - let us hope - will adopt at the next summit in Spain next year. It will be what NATO guides the future, which, as you well know, is a guarantee of our security and our defence. And in this regard, I will tell you what the Secretary-General of NATO has said - not me, the Secretary-General of NATO; not the President of the Government, the Secretary-General of NATO -. The allies have agreed that Spain will host the summit next year because they recognize Spain's important role in this organization. It is a recognition of the importance of Spain - I am quoting Secretary General Stoltenberg - and it is an opportunity to focus on the challenges that come from the south. It will be very important and will be demonstrated when we meet next year in Madrid - close quotes -. I also want to say this to highlight - which we sometimes forget - the role that Spain and its foreign policy are playing in such important places as NATO. In another matter, Your Honor, protecting our sovereignty is also to guarantee our economic development, to ensure that Spain emerges from the crisis of the pandemic by taking a leap forward in digitisation and decarbonisation. This is a central project for this Government, as it is for the European Union as a whole, and this is precisely the subject of the conversation that the President of the Ursula von der Leyen Commission - which will be in Madrid this afternoon - will have with the Government of Spain. Protecting our sovereignty, Your Honor, will be in these years to have more leadership in the European project, to escape the risk of stagnation, using intelligently the 140 billion euros that this project will mean for our country. By the way, it is an economic development that will logically benefit also Ceuta and Melilla, without the slightest doubt. We will also protect Gibraltar's sovereignty, Your Honor. We do this with nails and teeth, but that does not prevent us from taking measures that end unfair tax competition, that end violations of environmental protection. Yes, Your Honor, if you put your hands at the head, you must be the only one in this country who does not understand that sovereignty can be defended and the resolution of specific problems that have not been solved for three hundred years can be promoted. As far as Morocco is concerned, I have already spoken several times in the last few weeks in this House, both from the rostrum and from the bench, whether active or passive, if you prefer, but I have no objection to going back to it, even though you have already heard what the Government thinks. Spain has neither sought nor desires a crisis that we do not have the slightest desire to feed. In relations with Morocco, in order to defend Spain's interests, we have been successfully applying a cooperative approach. We approach our neighbourhood by working closely in sensitive sectors such as security and migration, challenges that are common to Spain and Morocco. Migration cooperation benefits Spain, of course, but it also benefits our southern neighbour, our southern neighbours. For years we have worked out a series of coordination mechanisms based on trust between our security forces and on shared belief in the advantages of responsible management. Together we create a model that has become not only a sign of identity of the bilateral relationship, but also an axis of the relationship between Morocco and the European Union that Spain contributes to promoting. These deployments that guarantee our security and migration control are costly, prolonged over time, so Spain not only supports Morocco with its own means, but also insists and urges the Community institutions to provide a stable, sufficient and predictable financial framework. The signs of support we have received from the institutions of the European Union and the Member States are important not only for the solidarity they represent, but also for recalling that the borders of the Member States, such as Ceuta, as is the case with Melilla, are also external borders of the European Union. This has been acknowledged by the European Parliament last week, in a resolution on the same facts, by referring to the inviolability of the external borders of the European Union. Your Honor, cooperation and respect, including, of course, respect for borders, is an essential pillar on which to build this Hispanic-Moroccan relationship. The Government is fully open to dialogue and to look to the future. We have believed and believe that Morocco is a partner country and is a friend country of Spain and that this should continue to be the case in the future, building a stable relationship for mutual benefit. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-16-CD210616.u150	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] I give the floor to Mr Espinosa de los Monteros de Simon. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-16-CD210616.u151	Minister, thank you for your answer. I always get a little confused when I hear some things from you. We're talking about outsiders and you're coming to me to talk about gender-based violence. Look, we do not accept violence of any kind; we are the hardest against those who exercise violence; we are the only ones who ask for life imprisonment. [[applause]] I tell you more, Minister, and I tell the whole progressive bench: all the victims deserve the same respect, all of them. [[Applauds]] That is why it was this parliamentary group that yesterday asked for a minute of silence in memory of the girls allegedly murdered by their father - who deserve all respect - and also in memory of the girls killed by their mother, who deserve the same respect. [[Applauds]] But we're talking about outsiders, and I'm the one who never stopped surprising me. I have heard it many times, but when you come to this House - and I thank you for coming and being transparent about what the priorities of this government are - you say that the priorities in this government's foreign affairs are climate change, development aid, feminism, digitisation, decarbonisation as methods of deterrence abroad. Do you think the king of Morocco is dissuaded by his feminism? Do you believe that the external powers that pose a threat to Spain are dissuaded by our climate change and development aid policy? But do you really believe that this is how you defend Spain? A foreign minister or a foreign minister, a Spanish government abroad must be concerned to defend Spain's interests inside and outside, the security of its citizens in Spain and abroad, economic diplomacy for the benefit of the whole of Spain, the growth of the weight of Spain in relative terms in international organizations, as in the European Union, where we paint less every day. He must be concerned about the influence of Spain on all the external societies and the image of Spain in the media, which unfortunately lies on the ground. That is what a Government as a whole should be devoted to in external action. Unfortunately, we have the opposite. Therefore, when we have such an irrelevant role in international politics, we find that an ally like the United States does not have time for its president, after five months of being elected, to spend a minute calling President Sánchez on the phone, to return the call, when he has spoken to all the leaders of the world. That is why it seems to you that a meeting in a thirty-second corridor, which is the most ridiculous and humiliating thing for Spain, is a bilateral meeting, while it seems to you that two hours with Delcy Rodríguez in the VIP room of the airport is a casual meeting. [[Applauds]] Madam Minister, you are talking about Spain hosting the NATO summit in the future. That's fine with me. That's a good thing for Spain, we support it without compromises, without traps. That's fine with us, that's good news. I also suggest that you take the opportunity to do two things in the field of Spain's role in NATO: the first, to get Ceuta and Melilla to be protected and collected by the North Atlantic Treaty, which are now not, and the second, to convince its President of the Government, who said he wanted the Ministry of Defence to disappear, to increase the State's investment in defence to meet the objectives - even the commitments - that Spain acquired when it entered NATO, because Spain is not spending or investing even half of what it committed to when it entered NATO, and a country that does not invest in its own defence is a country that is weakened. [[applause]] Therefore, by the time NATO leaders come to Spain, I hope - and I will support you if you do - that you defend the inclusion of Ceuta and Melilla and that you defend greater investment in defence. [[Applauds]] Finally, Madam Minister, our group proposes the following to you and will support you if you do so. Firstly, in Gibraltar, Spain must begin a bilateral negotiation process with the United Kingdom aimed at restoring Spanish sovereignty over Peñón and promoting respect for special conservation areas; in defence of our borders, putting an end to the situation of chronic dependence on third countries that are so vulnerable to blackmail from third parties such as Morocco; strengthening the security guarantees of Ceuta and Melilla, as I say by amending Article 6 of the North Atlantic Treaty, so that it will collect these Spanish cities explicitly and that they are under their protection; strengthening our military capabilities, fulfilling our defence commitments made at the Cardiff summit and not only at NATO, and restoring bilateral relations with the United States, which would allow, at best, to opt for the military bases of Rota or Morón to end up where Africom is established. Finally, let us put an end once and for all to the so-called effect and multiculturalism that so much harm is done to Spain and the West. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-16-CD210616.u152	Thank you very much, Mr Espinosa de los Monteros. To conclude the debate, I have the floor on behalf of the Government, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, the European Union and Cooperation. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-16-CD210616.u153	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Espinosa de los Monteros, that climate change is a risk to our country and that it has to be a priority for our country, this government does not say so, says NATO. I recommend reading the latest NATO communiqué so that you do not think that the Government of Spain is hallucinating. If anyone suffers from hallucinations in this place it is the one who systematically refuses to accept that climate change is a fundamental risk to the security of our country and to the security of our citizens. [[Applauds]] Secondly, Mr Espinosa de los Monteros, of course we need a feminist foreign policy, or is protecting women's lives priceless? Is there no value in protecting women's lives? Well, you do, ma'am, and that's why foreign policy also has to be feminist. But to be able to make a feminist foreign policy does not mean that we cannot also make a policy of defending climate change, of defending our borders, of disrupting migration. Because this is what an American called being able to walk and chew gum. We must be able, Mr Espinosa de los Monteros, to do all this. So do not make it ridiculous to counter a feminist foreign policy to defend the sovereignty and borders of our country, because we must not counter them, we must do both, because both protect the sovereignty and security of our citizens and our citizens. The Government does not believe that it is a good strategy to defend and manage migration by encouraging fears. The strategy we think we need to follow is dialogue with partners to achieve safe, orderly and regular migration, which, by the way, is what the United Nations Global Compact on Migration is talking about. These are valid principles in the Mediterranean, as they are in other areas of the planet where there are also migratory tensions, a matter which, by the way, I had the opportunity to talk long and extended with the US Secretary of State, Antony Blinken, recently. Both of us, Spain and the United States, are concerned that migration is regular and orderly, and in that we are working together, Your Honor; Spain and the United States, working together also on this issue, and we do so on the basis of the alliance that unites us both. Your Honor, I would simply tell you that if you really care about the strength of our country - and I believe you are concerned about the strength of our country, as I am concerned about it too - you will contribute to the strength of our country, contribute to a foreign state policy, contribute to abandoning hyperbole, abandoning exaggeration, abandoning qualifying adjectives. I would ask you to work for our country's interest and to help the Government defend, as the Government does, the interests of our country and, also, the values of our citizens. Thank you very much, Your Honor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-16-CD210616.u154	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-16-CD210616.u155	We continue with the last item on the agenda, which relates to the election of the members of the Military Life Observatory. The election shall be made by the system set out in Rule 205 in relation to 204 of the Rules of Procedure, with those candidates being elected, up to a maximum of five, obtaining the highest number of votes, reaching at least the absolute majority of the House. The second secretary will read the Advisory Committee on Appointments' opinion on the suitability of candidates for members of the Military Life Observatory.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-16-CD210616.u156	On Monday, June 14, 2021, the candidates nominated for the election of five members of the Military Life Observatory were presented to the Constitutive Appointments Commission: Don Mariano Casado Sierra, Don Jesús Carlos Fernández Asensio, Dona Eugenia Hernández Sánchez, Dona Margarita Robles Carrillo and Don Ricardo García García, having unanimously expressed the representatives present in the parliamentary groups their opinion in favour of the eligibility of those to take office.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-16-CD210616.u157	Thank you very much, Madam Second Secretary of the Bureau. In speaking time, Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-16-CD210616.u158	Thank you very much, Madam President. I am, as spokesman of the Joint Parliamentary Group in the Defence Commission, one of the signatories of the proposal to renew the part that belongs to the Congress of Deputies in the composition of the Observatory of Military Life. I regret that no further consensus has been reached in the presentation of the candidates, whose names have just been read by the secretary of the Bureau, and that they will be submitted for approval by this House, but this renewal was an urgent need not to prolong for any longer the current vacuum in this advisory and consultation body which prepares reports based on a detailed knowledge of the conditions of our military and whose creation is part of one of the mandates of the Organic Law 9/2011, of the rights and duties of the members of the Armed Forces. The five members who are subject to individualised voting this morning meet the requirements of recognized prestige in the field of defence, and their role in the Observatory of Military Life for the next five-year period is, if possible, of greater importance because national defence is in a period of complicated transformation, not only for Spain, but for all the armies of the world, but in our case because of the peremptory needs arising from a gradual loss of resources that is burdened by the modernization of our units and the updating of the living and working conditions of our military men and women. Both in the Commission and here, in plenary, there has been talk of this, and the Minister of Defence herself, Mrs Robles, I know that she does not avoid problems, nor do I doubt that she will have them with some colleagues from the blue bank to get more and better resources through the budget. Ladies and gentlemen, the reading of the various reports drawn up by the Military Life Observatory shows that a number of problems have been encountered over time and that the resolution of these problems does not go hand in hand with the considerable budgetary constraints. With all certainty, the observatory inherits such a situation, and its new components will have to deepen their knowledge in order to transfer to the Committee for the Defence of the Congress of Deputies and, if necessary, to that of the Senate, and to serve to make the representatives of the Spaniards more aware of the recommendations suggested by the members of this body to achieve their solution or, at least, to alleviate the needs that are already put into evidence and those that are flourishing. Ladies and gentlemen, this week, and also a moment ago, a great deal has been said internationally about military matters on the basis of the NATO summit in Brussels, which decided, among other things, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs has just recalled, that the next meeting will be held in Madrid, but, above all, the summit at which she warned about the growing and worrying threats that are looming over the world and that Spain, as an ally of NATO since 1982, has been ratified by all the Spaniards in 1986, to have an armed forces that are up to the standards of those of the other countries, including the substantial improvement in the living conditions of our military. That goes on to solve once and for all, among many other things, the problems related to the destinations, the aids for the rental of the house and the schooling of the children of our soldiers resulting from the changes of destination that drag and move the whole family unit. In short, there is a very long list of recommendations that the Military Life Observatory has already described and that affect the shortcomings and needs of those who are members of the militia and their families, so the parliamentary procedure that we ended this morning with the election of the members of this body has to be a revulsive one in order to advance the advice to the General Courts, both to Congress and to the Senate, and to keep us up to date with its analysis. I will vote in favour of the five names proposed and, as a signatory to the candidates who, last Monday, received the unanimous support of the Appointments Committee, I also call for a vote of confidence for these five members of the Military Life Observatory, whom I wish in any case a fruitful task over the next five years, which is of enormous importance to our Armed Forces and to the representatives of the Spanish in both Houses. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-16-CD210616.u159	Thank you very much, Mr. Martínez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Gutiérrez Vivas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-16-CD210616.u160	Thank you, President. I will speak from the seat because it will be very brief. Ladies and gentlemen, as Mr Oblanca has just mentioned, the Military Life Observatory has not been renewed for two years, i.e. outside the ordinary mandate. Therefore, this House and the Senate - General Courts - had a debt to fulfill all that time. We have concluded, following a virtually unanimous agreement - of course, a very majority - and I would like to thank all the groups who have really been involved in resolving this renewal first. Thank you so much for the ability to reach an agreement. That's what makes us different. We have been able to do so on such a State issue as that of the Military Life Observatory and I would like it to be an example in order to be able to do so on other issues. Of course, it is much more gratifying for citizens to see us agree on things than in a permanent tension. In any case, many thanks to these groups. The Military Life Observatory has great challenges ahead in this new five-year period, great challenges with the men and women who make up our Armed Forces, and we still have some work to do that I would like to ask both the President and the President of the Senate, but of course the President of our Congress of Deputies, Mrs Batet. These are two aspects that remain to be concluded here: a regulation for the work of this body and a budget, since without a budget there cannot be the necessary independence. Since this Military Life Observatory by law depends on the General Courts, it would be wise to provide it with a budget that would enable it to maintain independence from the Ministry of Defence. In all regulatory bodies - something we are learning from this in the Commission which aims to improve democratic quality - we have always observed that being independent economically benefits. He ended up giving the congratulations and hoping that it would be majority, of course, the approval of these five people. I believe that we have succeeded in forming a multidisciplinary group and team and I am convinced that it will bring much to the good of the men and women who make up our Armed Forces. Thank you very much, President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-16-CD210616.u161	Thank you, Mr. Gutiérrez. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, I have the floor, Mrs Pérez Merino.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-16-CD210616.u162	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The Military Life Observatory is an institution established in 2012 that aims to monitor and monitor the personnel and human resources policy of the State Security Forces and Corpses. For Unidad Podemos, the Military Life Observatory is one of the most prestigious parliamentary secondment bodies and above all of the most useful, and that is why we have set out to start the renewal process as soon as possible after a period of inactivity that cannot be understood. We all know that he has been without appointments for two years, which he has had the institution paralyzed. Fortunately, PSOE and United We may have reached an agreement with the People's Party and Citizens in Congress and in the Senate that allows us to elect its members, specifically five for Congress and four for the Senate. The functions of the observatory, as defined in article 54 of the Organic Law 9/2011 of 27 July 2011 on the rights and duties of members of the Armed Forces, are all essential to ensure that the thousands of men and women who make up them have a legal framework adapted to the needs of defence and security and that it is respectful of their rights. Our group has used the memories, reports and studies that the observatory has developed in its short institutional life, and this has allowed us to better understand the Armed Forces and its members. Similarly, these memoirs, reports and studies have served us to drive policy changes and to carry out parliamentary control of governments. It is precisely for this reason that we can express our support for those who are going to integrate it in the coming years. We are concerned that its members have the most effective and appropriate means to carry out their functions. Our approach is that the observatory must be able to implement those agreements reached by the parliamentary groups in past legislatures, which we make our own as a whole and on which we will insist. With this in mind, I am referring to the opinions that this very Committee for the Defence of the Congress of Deputies has drawn up on the memoirs and reports of the observatory. They mandate the observatory to carry out its work with clear and decisive working guidelines, while establishing its own duties for the Commission and the House on the allocation to the observatory of budgets and rules of operation and the status of its members. We are sure that the people who join this body, the observatory, will bring experience and good work, as all the candidates have submitted curricula that recognize their suitability. We need to boost what has gone well and renew, reorganise and strengthen what is likely to be improved. In short, optimize or increase a body attached to the General Courts which is mandated to be an effective advisory and advisory instrument for the ongoing analysis of military status and the manner in which the State ensures and must ensure the interests of members of the Armed Forces. Let's do it, let's get better. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-16-CD210616.u163	Thank you very much, Mrs. Pérez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Gutiérrez Díaz de Otazu has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-16-CD210616.u164	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Before I begin, I would like to incorporate the parliamentary groups referred to by my predecessor into the Joint Group, represented by Mr Oblanca, who has spoken before, also incorporated into the nomination agreement for the candidates. First, I would like to begin by expressing, on behalf of the People's Parliamentary Group, the satisfaction that I have reached a broad agreement with many of the groups in this House on the establishment of the Military Life Observatory, regulated by the Organic Law 9/2011 of 27 July on the Rights and Duties of Members of the Armed Forces. I must regret, however, that I have not been able to reach a virtually unanimous agreement, in view of the object of this observatory, which, as my predecessor has also indicated, is a collegial body of an advisory and consultative nature attached to these General Courts for the permanent analysis of military status and the way in which the State looks after the interests of the members of the Armed Forces. We had the opportunity yesterday, on the 14th, in the appointment committee session, to see the suitability of the five candidates nominated by different parliamentary groups. The activity of the observatory, as has also been said, was interrupted by the completion of the period of activity of the first of them, consisting of five years, which lasted from 2013 to 2018, and which performed extraordinary work for the benefit of human resources management in the Armed Forces. We have many expectations placed in the task of this observatory, which we constitute today, especially, as it is obvious, in the area of its competence in the field of personnel policy, for what they will have to maintain close contact with professional associations, the Armed Forces Staff Council, the Undersecretary of Defense, the heads of personnel of the Army and Navy, and, through them, with the rest of the structures of the Armed Forces and with others of the General Administration of the State and of civil society that favor their ends. A first priority objective for the People's Parliamentary Group is to verify and assist with its recommendations to the implementation of the demanding tasks assigned to the Government by this House in September 2018 for the dignified transition of the troops of troops and navy with long-term commitment that reach the age of forty-five years to non-specially operational activities, although in some cases they may be related to military activity. An important aspect to be considered - which has also been reflected by Mr Gutiérrez - in setting up this observatory, supported by the permanent body, is the formulation of a proposal for an operating regulation - which has not yet been drawn up - which includes adequate funding for the implementation of its activities and possible movements and visits to units. In another matter, as a result of what I just mentioned about the first Military Life Observatory, which worked exemplaryly from 2013 to 2018, I would like to point out that these General Courts did not give them any recognition and good would be to analyze how those first nine components of the Military Life Observatory that worked from 2013 to 2018 had some recognition by the General Courts, Congress and Senate. [[Applauds]] I have nothing left but to make myself available to the members of the new observatory, to offer them the cooperation and support of the People's Parliamentary Group and to wish them every success in the performance of their duties. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-16-CD210616.u165	Thank you very much, Mr Gutierrez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Cantera de Castro has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-16-CD210616.u166	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, good morning. We are here to make the appointment of the five elected by the Congress of Deputies for the Observatory of Military Life. Let me begin - as I normally do when we deal with matters of defence, security or the scope of the Armed Forces - with a memory for all our soldiers, men and women, who have died in service, and send a grateful memory for those who are today performing their tasks not only in national territory but in the area of operations. [[applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, the Organic Law 9/2011 on the Rights and Duties of Professional Military, drawn up by a government of the Socialist Party, by a feminist minister, Carmen Chacón, established in its article that the Observatory of Military Life should be created. Let me inform you a little. In Spain we lack an adequate awareness and culture of defence. That's not what I'm telling you, it's something that's obvious in our society. And not only do we lack it in society, but here, within these walls, many of your ladies and gentlemen do not know what the Military Life Observatory is. The Observatory of Military Life was conceived and created by a socialist government, and endorsed by Congress and the Senate, to advise us, to create that awareness and culture of defence that deputies and senators and deputies should have, acquire and transmit to our citizens, because, as stated in article 30 of our Constitution, all Spanish citizens and all Spanish citizens have the right and duty to participate, among other things, in our defence, our security and our Armed Forces. Ladies and gentlemen, the Military Life Observatory is an advisory body, it is an advisory body to which all of you, all of you ladies and gentlemen, can use in any of your fields to ask for information about military life, from how women's integration into the Armed Forces is conceived, how it is the family reconciliation in the Armed Forces, how it is the defence industry, which affects our country and which has such an intrinsic relationship with our Armed Forces, to, for example, whether there are special education centres or children's centres in our Armed Forces. In any of these areas, ladies and gentlemen, you can use this observatory to ask how our military personnel live day by day, because many of your ladies and gentlemen do not know what our military personnel, our men and women do day by day, not even the families conceived within the very framework of the military: man-man, woman-woman, man-woman, woman-man. Ladies and gentlemen, as the previous rapporteurs have rightly said, these five names are names of prestige, five very heterogeneous names coming from various branches of formation, from military law to simply - I mean simply in quotation marks - the ecclesiastical sphere. Read your resumes, read well, because this would have been worth the consensus of each and every parliamentary group that we are here, because we are talking about the pillar of our country's security and defence, because we are talking about our Armed Forces, about knowing what our military are doing and saying. And the extreme right, where was that extreme right that brings out the flags in Columbus? Where was he? It has not contributed, nor has it risen, nor is it early morning, nor has it participated in anything at all; nothing! That's what matters to the extreme right to our men and women of the Armed Forces. [[Applauds]] That's what they care about. False patriotism. Ladies and gentlemen, we are facing a new geopolitical and geostrategic paradigm, a paradigm in which we find powers that perceive anthropologically differently from us what security and defence is, and therefore requires that all of us be involved in what the Military Life Observatory represents. That is why I also support the complaints, Madam President, because this observatory should have sufficient financial resources to carry out its work properly. Ladies and gentlemen, the five names we propose are prestigious names, they are names that require our support and, above all, they are names that we can use to inform us about what is happening within our bases, quarters and what our military perceives. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-16-CD210616.u167	Thank you very much, Mrs. Cantera. Ladies and gentlemen, we vote in three minutes. I remind you that you will only be able to vote from the seat that corresponds to you identified with your name on the screen. I also remind you, as I usually do, that those Members who have been authorized to vote for the telematics procedure cannot do so from their seats. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-16-CD210616.u168	Ladies and gentlemen, we started with the votes. No-law propositions. Proposal for a law of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, urging the Government to continue the campaigns carried out by the Labour and Social Security Inspectorate in the field of labour to ensure compliance with labour law in all areas, guarantee workers' rights and at the same time protect the majority of employers from unfair competition. We are voting in the terms of the compromise amendment tabled by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, the Republican Parliamentary Group and the Citizens Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 101 plus 242 by telephone, 343; in favour, 64 plus 122 by telephone, 186; against, 37 plus 105 by telephone, 142; abstentions, 15 by telephone.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-16-CD210616.u169	The non-legislative proposal was approved. - the parliamentary group on the declassification of information of the 23-F state budget. [[File number 162/000559]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-16-CD210616.u170	No bill by the Republican Parliamentary Group on the declassification of information from the coup d'état of 23-F. The vote was taken on the terms resulting from the incorporation of the amendment tabled by the Socialist Parliamentary Group and the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podem-Galicia in common. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 101 plus 243 telematics votes, 344; in favour, 64 plus 127 telematics votes, 191; against, 37 plus 115 telematics votes, 152; abstentions, 1 telematics vote.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-16-CD210616.u171	The non-legislative proposal was approved.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-16-CD210616.u172	Motions resulting from urgent appeals. Motion following urgent questioning by the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group, on the remedies of unconstitutionality against laws passed by the Basque and Navarra Parliaments. Voting by points. Vote on point 1. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 101 plus 243 telematics votes, 344; in favour, 35 telematics votes; against, 101 plus 207 telematics votes, 308; abstentions, 1 telematics vote.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-16-CD210616.u173	Paragraph 1 is rejected. Point number two. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 101 plus 243 telematics votes, 344; in favour, 35 telematics votes; against, 101 plus 208 telematics votes, 309.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-16-CD210616.u174	Paragraph 2 is rejected. Point number three. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 101 plus 243 telematics votes, 344; in favour, 35 telematics votes; against, 101 plus 207 telematics votes, 308; abstentions, 1 telematics vote.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-16-CD210616.u175	Point 3 is rejected. Point 4. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: votes were cast, 101 plus 242 telematics votes, 343; in favour, 34 telematics votes; against, 101 plus 207 telematics votes, 308; abstentions, 1 telematics vote.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-16-CD210616.u176	Paragraph 4 is rejected. - the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress, on the provision of the Government to invite those convicted by the Court of Justice to carry out prison sentences for secession and other serious crimes, as well as to reform certain types of criminal law in the Criminal Code, all as a political payment to their secessionist organizations. [[File number 173/00082]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-16-CD210616.u177	Motion following urgent interpellation by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, on the Government's willingness to pardon those sentenced by the Supreme Court for sedition and other serious crimes, as well as to reform certain criminal types of the Criminal Code, all as a political payment to its secessionist partners. Voting by points. Point 1. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 101 plus 243 telematics votes, 344; in favour, 36 plus 116 telematics votes, 152; against, 65 plus 125 telematics votes, 190; abstentions, 2 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-16-CD210616.u178	Paragraph 1 is rejected. Point 2. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 101 plus 243 telematics votes, 344; in favour, 36 plus 115 telematics votes, 151; against, 65 plus 125 telematics votes, 190; abstentions, 3 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-16-CD210616.u179	Point 2 is rejected. Point 3. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 101 plus 243 telematics votes, 344; in favour, 37 plus 116 telematics votes, 153; against, 64 plus 125 telematics votes, 189; abstentions, 2 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-16-CD210616.u180	Point 3 is rejected. - OF THE VOX PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, ON THE MEASURES TO BE TAKEN BY THE GOVERNMENT TO GUARANTEE AN EFFECTIVE, SAFE AND EQUALIITATIVE VACCUNATION FOR ALL SPAIN BEFORE THE SUMMER. [[File number 173/000083]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-16-CD210616.u181	Motion for an urgent appeal by the VOX Parliamentary Group on measures to be taken by the Government to ensure effective, safe and equal vaccination for all Spaniards before the summer. It shall be put to the vote on its terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 101 plus 243 telematics votes, 344; 54 telematics votes, against 101 plus 188 telematics votes, 289; abstentions, 1 telematics vote.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-16-CD210616.u182	The motion for urgent questioning is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-16-CD210616.u183	Election of members of the Military Life Observatory. Voting for the election of members of the Military Life Observatory. The voting was as follows: 258 votes in favour, 251 in favour, 251 in favour, 251 in favour, 251 in favour, 251 in favour, 251 in favour, 251 in favour, 251 in favour, 251 in favour, 251 in favour, 251 in favour, 251 in favour, 251 in favour, 251 in favour, 251 in favour, 251 in favour, 251 in favour, 251 in favour, 251 in favour, 251 in favour, 251 in favour, 251 in favour, 251 in favour, 251 in favour, 251 in favour, 251 in favour, Therefore, having obtained the absolute majority of the votes of the members of the Chamber, the aforementioned candidates have been elected as members of the Military Life Observatory. Congratulations to all of them. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The meeting rose. It was twelve and fifty-five minutes from noon. Error correction. In the Sessional Journal number 104, corresponding to plenary session number 100, held on Thursday 20 May 2021, on page 41, penultimate paragraph, sixth line, where it says 'Maria Siol' should read 'Maria Xiol'.
