ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-11-CD210511.u1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The meeting was called to order. Take your seats, please. Prior to the consideration of the agenda, we shall proceed to the oath or promise of compliance with the Constitution in accordance with Article 20.1.3 of the Rules of Procedure. In place of Don Joan Josep Nuet Pujals, he asked Don Gerardo Álvarez i García if he swears or promises to abide by the Constitution. Mr ÁLVAREZ I GARCIA: For the freedom of political prisoners and for policies and until the constitution of the Catalan Republic, by legal empire, yes, I promise. [[A Member of Parliament: Come on now!-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-11-CD210511.u2	Don Gerard Álvarez i García has acquired the full status of MP. Congratulations. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-11-CD210511.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, we begin with the debate on the full proposal of the Parliament of La Rioja to reform Organic Law 3/1982 of 9 June on the Statute of La Rioja Self-Government. That is why we are joined by three representatives of the Parliament of La Rioja, who make up the delegation that will defend the proposal and whom I welcome to this House. For the presentation of the initiative, I have the floor, first of all, Mr Raúl Díaz Marín.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-11-CD210511.u4	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. This debate is to talk about the future and eagerly, considering, if you look back, who would tell that Spain in black and white for forty years that we were going to be the third country to approve marriageequalitarian or the sixth to approve dignified death. What a journey and good thing we're still walking! This Saturday was also celebrated forty years, but from the signing of the statute of autonomy, with Pilar Salarrullana as the only woman of the thirty-two parliamentarians who with her signature made our land born as a region. Today it is a woman, Concha Andreu, who leads the government, who leads the future of our community. It is no coincidence, therefore, that in the framework of our statutory reform, equality between women and men, sexual diversity or the fight against gender-based violence have been so important. For this we have come here, ladies and gentlemen, to adapt our status to an increasingly changing reality. But we come here simply to equate our status of autonomy with others; or, rather, we have not only come to ask for the same opportunities that the rest have so that the opportunities in the end will end up with the usual ones. Nor do we ask you, ladies and gentlemen, for permission to reform our statute. We ask you, please, step; step so that we can continue to build this country, knowing that the only sustainable prosperity is shared prosperity. And because it is, it remains - and perhaps at this time of more important pandemic than ever - an indispensable condition for our democracy. I have the honour to rise to this rostrum as part of the family of the Rioja socialists, who have defended our autonomy before it existed, who have voted without hesitation for Title VIII of our Constitution, making our land, La Rioja, a patrimony for the whole country. We were the first to proclaim it, the first to defend it: proclaim and defend a model that enshrines the difference, but rejects privileges. Never more than anyone, but neither less than none. Ladies and gentlemen, I come from a land, La Rioja, where the autonomous fact is not discussed, is shared; and whoever does not share it but fights it, like fighting, for example, the universality of human rights, has no place, stays outside the institutions, has no place in our Parliament and, of course, will not find any reflection in the statutory text that we offer to all of you today and which emphasizes equality in order to make the Rioja a greener, more prosperous and more social society. Ladies and gentlemen, I firmly believe that every statutory reform is always more important than the previous one, and not, of course, because of the fact that we have worked on it and have come up here to defend it -? we are all contingents, we know - but in each vote we affirm our common will to build a democratic project of coexistence; because, in front of those who want to build a society that marginalizes and excludes, we present to them a text and a statute to continue to make a country that protects and protects; because, in front of those who question the benefits of competitive distribution, from La Rioja we come to show that autonomy has made us grow and improve in a constant and vital way; because, in front of those who recreate in permanent anger, in the continuous confrontation, from La Rioja we come with this text agreed by all unanimously. In the Parliament of La Rioja, the Socialists being the main opposition party in the last parliamentary term, we show that from there you can also make a region. This reform is the cause of our proposal for reform to eliminate the outbursts, which we then wanted to expand by calling for a complete reform of our statutory text, because for socialists to accept reality has never been enough, we want to transform it and, without a doubt, this new statutory text lays the foundations within the block of constitutionality in order to be able to carry it out. All this, ladies and gentlemen, without losing sight of the demand for solidarity with others, so that no difference implies economic or social privilege. That demand for solidarity can only be read on the basis of the principle of loyalty with the rest of the autonomous communities and with the Government of Spain, as the Socialists have always done. Ladies and gentlemen, four different-sign political forces agreed on this text, which was adopted unanimously, whose delegation I now take advantage of to greet. And it is true that we live in a time when consensus does not fill so many headlines, but that they are essential to keep moving forward, and today we put it on the table, because Spain is not only Madrid and the rest of the landscape. We come humbly to claim that in our case we also contribute, we all contribute together to making country, also to the north of Madrid and to the west of Catalonia. We want La Rioja to continue to be heard. That is the idea that the Socialists have wanted to translate into this statutory reform that now belongs to them. Please bring it with affection because many of our aspirations as a society are left here today with all of you. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-11-CD210511.u5	Thank you very much, Mr. Díaz. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Also to present the initiative, he has the word don Jesús Ángel Garrido Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-11-CD210511.u6	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, today at the General Courts we begin the process of the new Statute of the Autonomous Community of La Rioja, a milestone in this process of construction... [[Sir.]] I'm sorry, in autonomous parliaments, we don't have the habit of taking it away. A milestone - he said - in this process of building our land that dates back to 1812, in Santa Coloma, when fifty-nine mayors met asking for the constitution of a deputy, a deputy for the administration of the natural region of La Rioja. Without going further, moreover, a few days ago, on 8 May, we commemorated the 40th anniversary of the signing of the first Statute of Autonomy by the Thirty-Two Before, assembly that constituted twenty-four deputies of the already extinct Provincial Diputation and eight national parliamentarians of the first democratic elections. And yesterday, as today, the goal remains exactly the same: to consolidate and increase La Rioja's capacity to develop sustainably and project our region, logically, within the framework of the Spanish nation. We understand that this reform is a sign of the People's Party's firm commitment to the autonomy of our community, to the autonomy of La Rioja and to the state of autonomy that is enshrined in the constitutional text. And, of course, a real and profound display of patriotism, because La Rioja can only be and La Rioja can only be understood within the suggestive and exciting common life project that is Spain. And all of you, ladies and gentlemen, even if you are not fully aware, take La Rioja very inside. The language, the Spanish, configures our being and configures our thinking and this status that we propose recognizes the Spanish language as an essential part of the historical and cultural heritage of our land. And against those who use languages to divide and exclude, we propose here today with this reform a jewel, a treasure that unites us all and that must be put in value. The People's Party is the great vertebrating political party of the Autonomous Community of La Rioja, of all that has progressed since it was established as an autonomous community. And with pride I also have to say that the People's Party has been a major player in getting here today. We have been able to take advantage of all the institutional experience since the creation of the autonomous community to put it at the service of the Riojas, of the people, and this is very important. That is why we include a title in which we make a list of the rights and duties of Riojas and guiding principles that must follow the policies of the various regional executives. And, therefore, is created in this legal body the essential idea that the statute not only -? which is - it is a basic institutional norm of the functioning of our community, but it is also a guarantee of rights and guarantee of the well-being, in this case, of all Riojas, and only by law, which must respect its essential tenor, can be developed. Therefore, maximum legal certainty for this objective. Likewise, the statute incorporates provisions aimed at improving the institutional functioning, citizen participation and deepening the political autonomy of our land, that is, respecting, as it cannot otherwise be, our highest standard. With two clear objectives: to increase the confidence and credibility of Riojas and citizens, therefore, in our institutions of self-government. Look, the members of the executive branch and the members of the legislative branch disappear; the incompatibility between the office of an autonomous senator and a member of the Parliament of La Rioja is declared; we also regulate the limitation of the mandates of those who hold the presidency of the Government; we limit the number of councils; the legislative delegation is detailed in detail and we recognize the legislative initiative of the municipalities of our community. On the other hand, we are renewing the provisions relating to the competences of the community itself that are defined as exclusive or shared or executive. I'm done, Madam President. We understand that this reform is timely, necessary and binding. It is an opportunity to adapt to a society in the 21st century other than that of 1982; it is necessary to face the challenges we face - economic, social and technological challenges - and finally also forced to deepen the democratic quality of our institutions. For this reason, I reiterate to you once again that you support this consideration of this organic law. Nothing more and thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-11-CD210511.u7	Thank you very much, Mr. Garrido. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Finally, to present the initiative, he has the word Don Pablo Baena Pedrosa. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-11-CD210511.u8	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am a son of our Constitution, like some of you, like many of the citizens of La Rioja and so many of the citizens of Spain. We are children of harmony, equality, union and democracy. We have had the luck of living a life full of freedom and have enjoyed from the first breath of rights that the 1978 Constitution gave us, that common pact of coexistence that allowed the modernization of our country, but also that La Rioja won its self-government. Today it is as necessary as then to add our efforts to guarantee rights and freedoms, as well as to move forward in measures of democratic regeneration that legitimize our institutions. That is precisely what the text we are bringing to debate means for La Rioja today, ladies and gentlemen: the modernization of a statute that has fulfilled its role for years, but that needs to be equipped with tools to serve the citizens of La Rioja in terms of democratic, social and economic progress. I am pleased that my group was the driving force behind this reform, but I am more pleased to explain that thanks to this update the new statute of autonomy will put La Rioja at the forefront of Spain. This is because this new statute reflects an unequivocal advance in regeneration by establishing the status of open government, participation and transparency. It is also because the suffocation of deputies and members of the Government is eliminated and the term of office of the President of the Government is limited to two legislatures, just as it is established that any Riojan can be an autonomous senator. Today, therefore, thanks to the impetus of Citizens, politicians lose privileges and citizens win on equal terms. These and other improvements have been possible because, as in 1978, the Spaniards decided to separate our differences and to agree on the progress of the nation, in La Rioja we have agreed on a profound reform of the status in terms of citizens' rights and democratic regeneration. That is why I ask all of you to support the text that is being debated today. But I can't stop coming up to this rostrum without telling you about other needs for progress that my land also has, because the Riojas want to look to the future and feel proud to belong to an open and diverse nation, as is the Spanish one. The reform of the statute is a magnificent instrument for us, but the leap that must drive La Rioja in the next twenty years is the infrastructures, because what can become La Rioja will be based on the development of them. It will be a world power as a proud region of its membership in Spain if visitors can reach our land, it will be an innovation hub if our industries have access to adequate connections. La Rioja has potential; potential to show itself to the world in a universal way, because also from La Rioja emanates the common language that unites us all Spanish. We have been watching the railways modernise in other regions for decades, but not in our own; we have been asking for the compensation that our status establishes for La Rioja to compensate for the differences with our outside neighbours and, ladies and gentlemen, this is also important for LaRioja. The President of the Government visited La Rioja in February 2020 and pledged to position our autonomous community as a region par excellence worldwide and also to build the city of packaging and packaging, and I wonder: how do you intend to do this if we do not have the right infrastructure? How do they intend to do this if it is impossible for a tourist to arrive in La Rioja? Because those projects can be great, but without infrastructure and connectivity they are nothing. We Riojas today call for a positive vote for the adoption of the reform of the statute, but we also urgently need investment in infrastructure and connectivity to push our land towards the future. We are the smallest, but enormous, autonomous community in resources and wills. We do not want privileges, but we should be treated equally, as our Constitution says. The time is now, because you have in your hands to advance my land, what is yours, which is everyone's, by modernising the statute and also by modernising its infrastructures. Therefore, I ask you to vote in favour and also to know the reality of my land and to treat its citizens with justice among all. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-11-CD210511.u9	Thank you very much, Mr Baena. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] I have the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Mazón Ramos.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-11-CD210511.u10	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I am speaking at this point in plenary for two basic reasons: the first, because from the Regionalist Party of Cantabria we want to reiterate our support for the autonomous state of our Constitution. Even if there are voices that question it, it is one of the great successes of the Transition and it is something that has deeply fallen into Spanish society, to the point that it is impossible to find today any region of Spain where the majority of its inhabitants are not deeply identified with their territory and with their institutions. This is the case of Cantabria and also that of La Rioja. It is obvious that both the functioning of the institutions and the exercise of powers, whether those of the State, the autonomous communities or the local authorities, can be improved. Today we have an example. The amendment proposed here is in this line and we will therefore support its consideration. The second reason is because we want to give voice to the Rioja Party, as I have been asked to do. The Riojano Party is a brother party of the PRC, it is one of the many supporters that we always receive from the rest of Spain, and its main leaders, RubénGil, Rubén Antoñanzas, Leopoldo García Vargas, who have come, are assiduous companions of all our great events, of our Christmas campaigns/ dinners, of the parties of the party and of our electoral rallies for many years. Well, the Rioja Party agrees on the broad lines of the new Statute of Self-Government of La Rioja, which, although it might have been more ambitious, has the right broad lines for La Rioja to walk towards a community with more capacity and more self-government, and above all for Riojas to have better and better social well-being. The Rioja Party regrets that the text has been stopped in Congress for two years, since the reform of the statute of autonomy was adopted in San Millán on 11 April 2019 and comes to be debated at these Courts two years later, but it wants to show its satisfaction because, after making public the unjustified delay in the adoption of the statute, both the Parliament of La Rioja and the Congress itself has accelerated the processing of the most important text for the Riojas and that today it is being debated definitively. La Rioja is, like Cantabria, a proud land to be part of Spain, but it does not forget the marginalization it suffers in infrastructures, in financing and in the null presence in the General Budgets of the State, which always obviate the needs of a land always loyal to the rest of the communities of the State. The Rioja Party, the third political force representing mayors and councillors in La Rioja, wishes to stress that many of its proposals are reflected in this amendment, such as the limitation of mandates, the elimination of squatters, the defence of the landscape, natural resources, heritage or the incorporation of health, education, housing or an income for citizens, among others, as rights. But the Rioja Party wants to stress that the status of autonomy has been unfulfilled for years by the various central governments, and it is its article 46, which refers to the border effect. For the purpose of realising the income of the Autonomous Community of La Rioja and, in particular, the territorialized participation in the general taxes and in the conditions for the approval of surcharges on systems of the tax system, within the framework of the Constitution and legislation, the General Administration of the State and the Autonomous Community of La Rioja shall sign a bilateral agreement which shall be formalized in a joint commission, which may be reviewed periodically in a joint manner, which shall take account of the fiscal effort of La Rioja and shall meet in particular the criteria of fiscal co-responsibility and inter-territorial solidarity, as well as the correction of imbalances produced in La Rioja by the effects arising from the situation bordering other territories. La Rioja has never been compensated for the border effect it suffers from the tax advantages of neighbouring regions; the same is true in Cantabria. La Rioja has never been paid the €18 million per year that was collected in the budgets of the Government of La Rioja and, worse, the bilateral agreement with the State has never been signed to study the compensations produced by the effects of the borderline situation. The Rioja Party wishes to draw the attention of Congress to the fact that this status of autonomy that is being dealt with today must be the state's statute and that article 46, which is fundamental to the development of La Rioja, must be complied with and must not be denied as has always been done by the different governments, whatever colour they may be. Rioja is solidarity, but cannot be marginalized on the basis of political interests, as has been the case for many years. The Rioja also exists. La Rioja doesn't ask for an exit to the sea. Let's go to Cantabria! This is what they say. Here now I make a letter to give proof of the numerous Riojans who have their second residence in Cantabria. Laredo, Noja, et cetera, are witnesses of how well these compatriots leave their land for their good character. The only thing we ask is for the state to comply with the Riojas, as the Riojas do with it. And finally, I would like to highlight another link that unites us with this sister land, where the name of Cantabria is present in emblematic places such as the Cantabria mountains or Mount Cantabria, a veritable viewpoint of Logroño, a vestige of the Visigothic era when the Duchy of Cantabria extended to a large part of the Peninsula. The great bond that unites us -? in addition to the Ebro - it is the origin of the Spanish. In La Rioja are the first texts written in Spanish. In the south of Cantabria, in Valderredible, Ebro valley, it is where the spoken origin of the Castilian has been dated as evolution of the romance language that was previously spoken. I just want to reiterate our support and hope that you will have a fruitful step forward in the process over the times that are coming in this Congress. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-11-CD210511.u11	Thank you very much, Mr. Mazón. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Gutiérrez Vivas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-11-CD210511.u12	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Comrades of the Parliament of La Rioja, welcome to this House. Today we are discussing the proposal to reform the Organic Law of the Statute of Autonomy of La Rioja, a new reform of the statute of autonomy that began its walk in Parliament there on June 8, 2017, when the Socialist and Citizen parliamentary groups registered this initiative. After a lengthy parliamentary process, it was finally approved on 11 April 2019 and registered in this House in December of the same year. I believe that the various reasons for delaying the process of this initiative, especially because of the pandemic that has affected us, should not move away from the main reason, which is to equate the degree of self-government with that regulated in the statutes of other autonomous communities. However, the juncture has been used to adapt the basic autonomous institutional legislation to the current needs of the region and, in particular, to give an impetus to regeneration to the autonomous community through the adoption of certain measures that I will point out below and which, from our point of view, should be highlighted. As I have already mentioned, it should be recalled that this reform was carried out at the request of our parliamentary group in the Parliament of La Rioja as early as 2015, when support was offered to the Government of the People's Party in exchange for the compromise on a number of points, including precisely those related to democratic regeneration. As we were all able to see shortly afterwards, the People's Party showed reluctance to comply with and execute the pact, which is why in Citizens we finally decided to present a bill with the Socialist Party in 2017, which is the one we are bringing to its validation right now. In our view, this is a modern statute for La Rioja of the 21st century, better structured than it already had, with up-to-date competences and shielding many of the rights already enjoyed by Riojaans, including the right to establish statutory rank for participation, an open and transparent Government or social rights. Ladies and gentlemen, let me tell you that the part of which we are most proud is the compendium of rules relating to democratic regeneration and that Citizens had a special effort to promote and modify; in particular, the elimination of the suffocation of Members, Councillors or the President of the Government of La Rioja, the limitation to two legislatures of the term of office of the President of the Government of La Rioja and the non-accumulation of positions of autonomous senator and regional deputy in the same person. The elimination of the outbursts for members of the regional government and the autonomous deputies is indeed a historic demand of our parliamentary group in all the parliaments in which we are present. La Rioja thus joins -?and we celebrate it - the list of communities that have already suppressed this prerogative, among them, Murcia, Baleares or Cantabria very recently. Ladies and gentlemen, today Spain is one of the few countries that retains the privilege of strangulation for its national and autonomous Members. We understand that through this figure there is, on the one hand, a breach of the principle of equality and, on the other hand, an alteration of the ordinary rules of article 24.2 of the Spanish Constitution, which provides that all Spanish citizens have the right to the ordinary judge predetermined by law; in other words, it affects a fundamental right such as that of effective judicial guardianship. In this way, suffocation implies a privilege for politicians that makes a jurisdiction different from that applied to the rest of the citizens apply to us. We believe that, therefore, it is necessary to work towards their progressive elimination. The elections are an element that takes away politicians from the citizens they represent and, likewise, if we take into account the fact that the appointment of senior officials of the judiciary depends at the end of political power and of the members of this House, it seems logical that our fellow citizens wonder whether these appointments of the members of the General Council of the Judiciary, the judges and the magistrates will not be conditioned by them as well. If the appointment of judges and judges of the courts who judge politicians at first instance and not other citizens is subject to political interference, is it not logical to suspect that they can obtain differential treatment? This is the question that many of our citizens are asking, and I believe that it realizes how important the reform we are debating today is. It will therefore help to improve the functioning of the judiciary and will result in citizens' perception of their independence. As I have already said, Citizens have advocated from the outset and with undeniable perseverance the suppression of political outbursts, that is, those affecting national, autonomous deputies, senators and members of national and autonomous governments. From now on, the members of the regional government and the autonomous deputies of La Rioja will also be tried by ordinary courts. We have also pushed for the limitation of the mandates of the President of Rioja to two and will therefore not be able to exceed eight years in office. This is another of the fundamental regeneration measures agreed by the Autonomous Parliament, which will contribute to the regeneration of political life and to putting barriers to political clientelism and clientel capitalism. Through this reform, it is also proposed to strengthen the role of the Consultative Council and to restore the position of the Ombudsman of La Rioja, which favours better protection and better service to citizens. In short, we believe that this initiative is necessary, while it entails a modernization of the fundamental norm of the region, while betting on political regeneration, which is consubstantial to the Citizens project. That is why we can only be in favour of this reform on which we are debating, and of course we will be voting in favour of taking account of this very relevant bill, which has been waiting for so long. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, of the Socialist Party and especially of the United Nations, I repeat that it seems a lie that we are adopting these rules in the autonomous parliaments and are unable to bring them to the national parliament. Return to consensus, to logic and to truly think about the citizens and force this government, as you are your partners,...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-11-CD210511.u13	Mr. Gutierrez, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-11-CD210511.u14	... to bring about a reform in this sense of Members' outbursts. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-11-CD210511.u15	Thank you very much, Mr Gutiérrez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Velarde Gómez has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podem-Galicia in common.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-11-CD210511.u16	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, and representatives of the Parliament of La Rioja. Our parliamentary group will vote in favour of taking into account the reform of the La Rioja Statute of Autonomy, which is also endorsed by the unanimity of the Rioja Parliament. We support it, in addition to coming with that maximum support from the Rioja parties, because it is a text that contains great consensus from Riojan society and because this reform also prepares La Rioja for the challenges ahead. Although my group is going to vote in favour of the inclusion, with all due respect, we would have liked to have included in the text some measures that we have demanded a lot from Podemos and the United Left in La Rioja and that we believe would improve this reform of the status of autonomy. Firstly, that the text should take up the modification of the minimum threshold for representation in the autonomous Parliament, from the current 5% to 3%, because we believe that lowering the threshold for obtaining representation is also to ensure the proportionality of the vote and to go in favour of more and better democracy. All parliaments that are currently reforming their respective electoral laws are working on a 3% threshold. Secondly, one of the points we have called for from the United Nations is the possibility that the Rioja Government can pass decrees laws. The pandemic has shown that at exceptional times legislative decrees are necessary to enable the Government to act and that the Parliament is then validated; therefore, they balance perfectly, from our point of view, the need to govern with parliamentary control. Other communities have this possibility, but La Rioja did not and, in that regard, we would have liked a little more ambition from the People's Party, PSOE and Citizens. We hope that the parliamentary procedure can be improved - without, of course, losing the consensus of the Autonomous Parliament - and that the Riojas and Riojas will see this reform of the status of autonomy approved sooner rather than later. This proposal to reform the Statute of Autonomy for La Rioja improves self-government and institutional functioning; collects social rights that protect Riojans and Riojanas with greater guarantees; also increases the competences of the autonomous community; brings democracy closer to those represented; and, in addition, deepens social cohesion, sustainable development -? which is very important - and the protection of territory and natural heritage. In addition, it establishes equality between men and women -?for us it is essential - as a backbone of this text, thus advancing towards equal democracy, as the feminist movement has also claimed. And one of the very, very positive developments for our group is that there is a great social consensus in the sense of eliminating outbursts, in line with other reforms that have already been approved in other autonomous communities, as well as in the non-accumulation of the post of senator by autonomous designation with that of deputy in the regional Parliament. We also welcome the recognition of the right to promote popular consultation on issues of general interest in autonomous or local matters in article 12.2 and transparency and open Government, in line with that right to information from citizens in the search for good government. Article 14.6 also makes us particularly proud of the Unidad Podemos, because it makes La Rioja a better, fairer and more modern society. The inclusion of the right to an income for citizenship, which will have to be regulated in a specific law, is for us a giant advance in social protection and the strengthening of democracy, because there is no democracy unless the material foundations of freedom are guaranteed. The inclusion of the Braille system or the language of signs in the public sector is also, from our point of view, a giant step in the construction of an egalitarian and respectful society with diverse life. In short -?I am not going to extend much longer because we are going to vote in favour -, this reform of the status of autonomy is the norm that the Rioja people deserve, because it looks at the challenges of our society, leaves no one behind and will make La Rioja, when it is finally approved, a more just society for all, for all and for 'all'. I say 'everyone' because I like that word to this bench I say it because Article 15.2 recognizes that everyone has the right to express his or her own gender identity or, which is the same, the status of autonomy contemplates gender self-determination and this will make life much easier and more viable for trans people. [[pointing out the seats of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.- Rumors]] Therefore, it seems to us a very important step forward that we hope we can also have at the country level. I'm on my way. Thanks to the representatives of the Parliament of La Rioja for this good work and congratulations for the consensus they have brought to this Congress, showing that we can all agree -? though sometimes it is something that seems impossible - to work whenever it is for the common good. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-11-CD210511.u17	Thank you very much, Mrs. Velarde. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Sánchez García has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-11-CD210511.u18	With all due respect, Madam President. A new initiative to reform a statute of autonomy comes today to this House, promoted on this occasion by the Parliament of La Rioja. It is an initiative that once again continues to solve a problem that is perhaps the most serious from the constitutional point of view that Spain has faced for many years, which is the problem of the state of autonomy. The state of autonomy, as we all know and as many of us live it - others perhaps not because of age - was proposed to the Spaniards in 1978 as the definitive solution of a historical problem that concerns some regions of Spain, not all of them. But it was warned then in the constituent debate, and did so mainly in this Congress Mr Fraga Iribarne, that Title VIII regulating this ambiguous regional state was not the solution of any problem, but was a problem in itself, and that it was a problem, therefore, congenital to the constitutional text because it was born with it. For many years, perhaps too many, in Spain there has been no awareness of the difficulty that this territorial structure of power represented in our homeland and it has had to be a critical episode in the evolution of this model which has made the Spaniards aware of the gravity of this issue. At first, it was the first referendum that was held in Catalonia in November 2014 and it has definitely been - and with it there has been a remarkable reaction; I would say that a reaction of salvation both in Catalonia and throughout Spain - the referendum of October 2017 also in Catalonia. In the process that has led to this situation there have been no ruling parties that have turned, those that are part of an establishment that we consider to be obsolete, any vocation to remedy the situation. There has been a constant concession and a far-reaching application of article 152. Surprisingly, unexpectedly Mr Aznar, when he arrived at the Council of State as former President, said in the plenary of the Council that it was necessary to repeal, but he did not propose such a derogation in eight years of office, four of them with an absolute majority. This situation, a little - I would dare to say - crazy in every sense, politically and constitutionally, invites us today once again to have to examine the proposal for reform of a statute of autonomy; I do not know whether with a large extension of the competence - what has been set out here and the reading of the text does not indicate it - but in any case with somewhat absurd proclamations as the way in which the Riojans feel fully realized. They're, in short, appeals to a little bit of a package psychology that we didn't just understand. The Riojas feel fully realized because they are Riojas and Spanish with status and without status, despite the fact that the representatives of the Parliament of La Rioja today look at me with an absolute surprise. [[Applauds]] The representative of the People's Party has come to say that it is the People's Party that has done more for the vertebration of La Rioja. I allow myself to break a spear by the copyist monk of the Emilian Gloses, but, in the end, you will know if the People's Party has that importance in the history of Spain. [[laughter and applause]] In this text we also note errors that we are already accustomed to and that really make us very unattractive to their reform, beyond insisting on a mistake rather than correcting it. The correction would be the regression in the competitions, but here is this new unconsciousness, despite the 2017 episode, and we continue to propose things of this scope. Here we say, to quote some precept of the text, which is proposed for consideration by this House - of course not! - special protection in the field of gender-based violence, Article 15.4; we are not going to disappoint the establishment and the political correction. That if an Ombudsman of La Rioja, that if an advisory council; already existing, otherwise, and that they are completely left and are expensive. The Court of Auditors and the Economic and Social Council could also be set up, by replicating the bureaucratic apparatus and on many occasions of little use. I do not want to talk about the Economic and Social Council, which is absolutely useless and very expensive; it is a perfect manifestation of how dear democracy conceived by the Socialist Party and the People's Party is. Of course, no reduction in the number of parliamentarians or advisers. A dangerous article 37, number 44, on popular consultations as exclusive competence of the Autonomous Community of La Rioja that we like very little. The creation of a Justice Council with completely unknown powers and impossible to fill in Article 63. And, of course, also a public television channel, additional third provision. Madrid costs 80 million a year and the number of spectators on the channel does not justify its existence. I mean, this thing that's said to be a public service, it's a lie. It is not a public service because there is no public that needs such a service. Then there's the end of such a story. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] In short, you get rid of it. There's the three of you sitting together. Finally, nothing, they will continue in this alliance against Spain's interest and harms the national interest, and we will therefore vote against it. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European ……]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-11-CD210511.u19	Thank you very much, Mr Sánchez. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, I have the floor, Mrs. Gamarra Ruiz-Clavijo. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-11-CD210511.u20	President, ladies and gentlemen, it is an honour for me to always take the floor from this rostrum, as it is for each and every one of you, but today, without a doubt, it has a special dimension because it allows me to do it as a riojana. I would also like, first of all, to welcome to this House the representatives of the parliamentary groups in La Rioja who are accompanying us this afternoon, who undoubtedly share the significance of this feeling for all of us. [[Applauds]] On 8 May, nothing less than forty years ago in the Monastery of San Millán della Cogolla, a solemn act took place: the signing of the draft Statute of Autonomy of La Rioja through article 143 of the Constitution by the one known as the Assembly of the Thirty-Two Before. It was called the Statute of San Millán because the Emilian Glosas determine what we have always been: a place of encounter, of crossing, of identification, a place in which they have coexisted and coexisted cultures, with a vocation of coexistence with the rest of autonomous communities -?proud always to belong to a large shared project that is Spain - and, especially, with all those communities that are closest and are neighbors, such as Castile and León, the Basque Country, Navarra and Aragon. I will make my own the words that were spoken in this House on 16 February 1982 and from this very rostrum by Mr Escartín: The fact that our region is small in size and population does not mean that it has come to this House with a certain complexity of inferiority when asking for the Statute, when determining its competences and when fixing its organs. Not then, not now, and in these forty years we have proved it. We have moved from a newly-released democracy to a mature and full democracy in Spain. That Statute of San Millán, which came to fulfill the wishes for self-government of the Riojans in those incipient beginnings of the autonomous organization of our territorial model emerged from the Constitution, we will all agree that it needed a revision, an update in line with the passage of time and the development of our region that we have all carried out together, between all the Riojans and the Riojans. It is true that the Statute has been reformed twice by means of organic laws in the years 1994 and 1999. The first reform was to assume the powers which, through Organic Law 9/1992, belong to the autonomous communities that we have gained autonomy through article 143 of the Constitution. This reform, together with the 1999 reform, involved the incorporation of these new powers into the statute and thus the expansion of the self-government capacity of La Rioja. I would like to stress that the second reform mentioned, that of 1999, in its explanatory statement already frames our community entirely within the constitutional framework of the State of Autonomy, in which La Rioja, as part of Spain, fully and equally develops its self-government. Ladies and gentlemen, this was a statement of principles summarising the character and aspirations of our land and its people. We are an integral and indissoluble part of the Spanish nation and the development of our region in economic and social terms goes hand in hand with the future of the rest of Spain. Later, other powers have been acquired under the terms of article 148 of the Spanish Constitution, but two decades later, the status of autonomy has established us in the path of progress and freedom. To this end, and in order to continue to walk, it is timely and necessary to reform and draft a new statute. The text that we are debating today in Congress is the result of arduous work carried out in recent years by the parliamentary groups of La Rioja with the common objective of highlighting all that has been achieved in La Rioja in these forty years of self-government in which the People's Party has had a lot to do and has been very protagonist. The lines to follow in the future are also embodied in order to remain a prosperous community. It should also be emphasized that its final wording has been the result of dialogue, of being able to overcome differences for the sake of consensus and agreement, which makes this norm a collective success and heir to the spirit of 78 and the Transition. This reform, which was unanimously approved by the plenary of the Parliament of La Rioja in April 2019, will allow us to deepen the project we want for La Rioja by taking advantage of all our enormous potentialities and adapting ourselves to a society of the 21st century very different from that of 1982; to new times that have undergone profound changes in the social, cultural, economic and new technologies. As a result, the institutions of self-government have been strengthened and deepened and, moreover, it is inescapable to be able to collect the Charter of Rights and Duties of the Riojas and, thereby, the tools to improve the democratic quality of the institutions fully aligned with the Spanish Constitution, European legislation and all international treaties. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a statute that aims to share with Spain and Europe the best values of La Rioja and the Riojas, faithful to the history and roots of the Riojas, projected towards the future from solidarity and social cohesion, which have always moved us and will continue to move us. Ladies and gentlemen, once these thirty years of positive experience have passed for La Rioja and for Spain, with the same enthusiasm - if any, renewed - I ask you, on behalf of the People's Parliamentary Group, to vote in favour of the proposal for a law to reform the La Rioja Statute of Autonomy. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-11-CD210511.u21	Thank you very much, Mrs. Gamarra. Mr Cuatrecasas Asua has the floor for the Socialist Parliamentary Group. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-11-CD210511.u22	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a real privilege in my first speech in this rostrum of the Chamber of Deputies to defend the Socialist Parliamentary Group's view of the reform of the La Rioja Statute of Autonomy. First of all, I welcome this parliamentary seat, a constitutional body representing the Spanish people, the President of the Government of La Rioja, Concha Andreu, as well as the senators of the General Courts, the President of the Parliament of La Rioja, Jesús Mari García, and all the representatives of this institution, as well as the other personalities present. This is your house. Ladies and gentlemen, on 8 May 1981 in the capitular room of the Monastery of San Millán the Thirty-Two Before - twenty-four provincial deputies and eight national parliamentarians - gave birth with their signatures to the first known as the Statute of San Millán and later as the Statute of Autonomy of La Rioja. For all of them, a well-deserved moment of respect and recognition. Some of them are no longer between us and us and, of course, our desire to honor their memory on a day as significant as today comes from here. Mentioning the words of a historic riojano, the Calaguritan Marco Fabio Quintiliano, men and women must try to reach the maximum, trying to overcome their aspirations, without staying only in the goals they know are able to achieve. Well, drawing from the thread of this editorial line of the teacher of Calagurris Nassica Lulia, I would first like to express the firm commitment of the Socialist Parliamentary Group with maxims, but also with the Spanish Constitution of 1978, with its irrefutable pillars: freedom, equality, justice and political pluralism, and, of course, and in this debate it is obliged to say so, with Title VIII of the Magna Charter, the very one whose existence some seem to despise and which even seem to want to eliminate. [[Applauds]] The Socialist Group has always expressed a firm and unnegotiable commitment to all the institutions of a social and democratic State governed by decentralized law, such as ours, vis-à-vis the Jacobin and Centralized States which for us do not yield to the same height and intensity. I am proud to be part of a political party that contributed to the forging of our Constitution in all its sections, which has always defended that already mentioned Title VIII, which actively participated in the design of the autonomic map and which printed and continues to print its stamp in the positive reality of all autonomys. Rioja socialism was present in the establishment of the institutions of its autonomous community and worked to guide the foundations of its self-government, and in the present, with the good government of Concha Andreu, it continues to do so on the double bass and without rest. This necessary and already indefatigable reform that we bring to this parliamentary seat today is part of the defense that the socialists make of La Rioja, not facing us with other autonomous communities, but as a contribution to equality between them all. We don't seek privileges, but we don't seek discrimination. The approach we take with this reform is to strengthen and improve our self-government and, therefore, the social well-being of Riojanas and Riojanos, since this recognition to our State of the autonomy that admits differences and diversity, but not discrimination between them. In short, socialism defends this reform with two concrete objectives: to improve the life and opportunities of Riojan citizens and to modernise the institutional system of La Rioja in order to achieve full self-government in efficiency, consolidating our land in Spain and in Europe; a diverse Spain, where unity is more compatible with that fruitful diversity than with a grey uniformity, which of course only exists in the boring mind of some proceros who, although they do not know and do not want to know, walk on fictional soils outside reality. Societies advance when they have solid foundations, adapting to social changes and progress, always with the Constitution as a pattern of conduct, pluralism and territorial solidarity. Notable are the new laws and rights that from this Congress of Deputies, from the Senate and from the current Government of Spain are being crystallized in reality, and adapting the Statute of Autonomy of La Rioja to the advances, to the new times, to equality, freedom, social justice and political pluralism is now becoming unalterable. We walk along the path of matters of vital importance to the present and future of this emblematic autonomous community, with dialogue always for socialists as a basic tool for participation. We emphasize this, satisfied hugs to social rights, income from citizenship, rights of dependent persons, rights of children and adolescents, rights of access to social services, rights of integral protection of the different forms of family, education and public health, labour rights and the environment. We are, ladies and gentlemen, facing a reform that means giving light to the status of the most social autonomy in history. We support, without time for hesitation, the Governments of Spain and La Rioja in their firm will and commitments to strengthen and settle the democratic values of our society in fiscal policies and local financing, in the strategy for the demographic challenge of rural development, in ecological and digital transitions, to translate as their own each and every one of the shock plans to help Spanish and Riojan youth get out of economic exile, to improve -?as is already being done - communications and infrastructure in our community, in a stable dialogue with social actors, companies, which will enhance the competitiveness of traditional sectors. We do not forget something as relevant as the culture, history, tourism and heritage of La Rioja; values of vital importance for our future, cementing the present and respecting the past. In the framework of the 2030 Agenda, this statutory reform provides the framework sufficient for La Rioja to adapt with the necessary force to the new times, after many years of disdain for those who were unable or unwilling to place this autonomous community in the necessary channels of modernity. Finally, Madam President, I bring to my speech the Rio educator of Haro Manuel Bartolomé Cossío with this assertion: 'Legal reform can only be sustained on the reform of the heart'. Heart is left to the Riojas and the Riojas and to this Socialist Parliamentary Group, in line with our colleagues in the Rioja Parliament, we certainly believe in the necessary reform under consideration today and we hope that the rest of the groups in this Lower Chamber of the General Courts will join this reform without exclusion. This reform, ladies and gentlemen, will help to make La Rioja stronger, more intense, more adapted to the day-to-day lives of the Riojas and Riojas, also increasing capacities...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-11-CD210511.u23	Mr. Quatrecasas, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-11-CD210511.u24	...of whom we represent them in local, autonomous and state institutions. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-11-CD210511.u25	Thank you very much, Mr. Quatrecasas. We appreciate the presentation of the initiative by Mr Díaz, Mr Garrido and Mr Baena. We welcome you again, as well as the entire Rio delegation headed by President Andreu herself and the President of the Rioja Parliament. Thank you so much. [[Applauds.-Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-11-CD210511.u26	We continue with the debate to take into account the proposed law of the General Board of the Principality of Asturias on the universalization of the right to public health care. That is why we are joined by three representatives of the General Board of the Principality of Asturias who make up the delegation that will defend the proposal and whom I welcome on behalf of the whole House. For the presentation of the initiative, I have the floor, first of all, doña María Dolores Carcedo García.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-11-CD210511.u27	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. On 24 March 2017, the General Council of the Principality of Asturias approved the proposal for a law on the universalization of the right to public health care, which now reaches the plenary session of this House. To understand in its extension and value this initiative, which began its processing in the Asturian Parliament as early as 2015, let me try, ladies and gentlemen, as briefly and as closely as possible, a story of several achievements and some setback on the path taken years ago to give cover to the enormous fragility of the lack of protection of health. It could even go back to April 1986 and begin in these General Courts when the General Health Law promoted by the socialist minister Ernest Lluch was passed, which established the essential framework for article 43 of the Spanish Constitution to become a reality beyond the role. This law laid the foundations for public health, ensuring health coverage with a universal vocation that a number of regulations were expanding in the following years, thus gaining for all new security spaces; in particular, the Law on Cohesion and Quality of the National Health System, which strengthened the mechanisms of cohesion, equity and universality following the transfer of health competences to the autonomous communities. Until 2012, a particular epicenter in this chronological review, because the root of this proposal for a law is in a real decree intended apparently to guarantee the sustainability of the health system and that it involved, in the background, a debacle in terms of retrogression in rights; rights that we always tend to believe irreversible once conquered, no matter how much reality shows us that they never are, and less when the winds of austerity increase as an excuse for demolition, because with austerity per flag, the Royal Decree-Law 16/2012 altered the essence of our National Health System as we knew it, by suppressing the universality of health care, depriving especially vulnerable groups of assistance. As so many critical voices pointed out at the time, the involution of the ruling of the People's Party government turned a right into a service and was not even economically efficient. That, yes, opened a painful fracture in the indispensable social cohesion. Right in times of crisis and vulnerability, exclusion and more inequality were chosen. Also more inequality between territories; more inequality between autonomous communities who were interpreting the new legal framework in different ways. In the case of Asturias, where public health, the fundamental pillar of the welfare state, has been and is a sign of the identity of successive socialist governments, it was worked from the very first moment to reverse the harmful effects of the royal decree, to ensure health care without exclusion and thus to prevent that crisis from affecting even more the most vulnerable. In Asturias, it was possible to protect what is of everyone at the harshest moments of the crisis, despite the suffocating ideological restrictions imposed by the People's Party Government on the autonomous communities. It is in this context of reaction to the reduction in rights that this proposal of law was promoted in 2015, with the aim of recovering unequivocally and irreversibly the universal character of the right to health. To this end, it was proposed to repeal most of Royal Decree-Law 16/2012 and also to amend the General Health Act, the Law on Cohesion and Quality of the National Health System and also the Law on the Rights and Freedoms of Foreigners in Spain and their social integration in the same way that still today they maintain various associations and organizations. The initiative would still take two years to pass and even more to begin its processing in this House, where, after a first rejection in 2017, it is admitted to processing in 2019. By then and fortunately, many things had already changed; they have changed. The socialist government of Pedro Sánchez already promoted in July 2018 the Royal Decree-Law on universal access to the National Health System, which in essence came to restore and guarantee the right to health protection and health care under the same conditions to all people in Spain. In the same vein as the reversal of unjust and regressive health decisions introduced in those years along the same lines as this proposed law, other measures are included, such as the progressive elimination of co-sponsors and the preliminary draft law on measures for the equity, universality and cohesion of the National Health System, in which we are currently working and which we consider fundamental. It is undeniable that significant progress has been made in recent years, but there is also a way to go. We knew this before March 2020, and we know it more rawly now, because, ladies and gentlemen, now, in times of pandemic, we know that there is no personal health if there is no public health; there is no individual response if there is no global health; exclusion diminishes us all and the vulnerability of an individual makes us more vulnerable. It is essential, and even urgent, to continue to take steps towards the universalization of health; that is what we called for in 2017 from the General Assembly of the Principality of Asturias. Many things have changed and changed us since then, but in essence it is what we continue to defend now, now that we have known, in the rawest way, ladies and gentlemen, the universal fragility of the world. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-11-CD210511.u28	Thank you very much, Mrs. Carcedo. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Also, to present the initiative, you have the word Don Daniel Marí Ripa.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-11-CD210511.u29	Nine years ago Mariano Rajoy carried out a decree-law that left homeless migrants living in Spain without health care. At that time in Asturias we refused to comply with that order; a savage and inhumane order that asked our professionals to leave the most vulnerable people without medical help. Avoiding health tourism, they said cynically. We then realized that there was a need for a law that would prevent such a thing from happening again; a law that would shield health care for the whole world; genuinely universal health care without exclusions or grey areas, without grey areas, lordships of the People's Party, as also happened in the Madrid Community between March and September this year, in which 167 undocumented immigrants were left without health care. It's a soulless ideology. It's a shame to leave people without health care! They have been the last sources of a terrible measure by the People's Party, which withdrew 873,000 health cards in 2012. Between 2014 and 2017, 3340 people were directly excluded from the National Health System. According to Reder, there were 146 pregnant women, 243 minors, thousands of low-income people. After that, 51 people with cancer who could not afford diagnostic tests, 74 cardiovascular diseases, 107 cases of diabetes, 26 cases of HIV who were denied antiretroviral treatment, terminal patients who were denied morphine, kidney transplanted without immunosuppressive treatment, victims of macho violence, who were billed for the treatment of injuries. In short, life stories, human dramas behind political decisions. Democracy is that everyone in any part of the State, regardless of their country, has the right to quality health care. Democracy is based on the fact that you don't need a compound name to be treated in a hospital; it goes on that, whoever you are and wherever you come from, you know they won't just let you die. Democracy needs a health where you don't wait a year and a half for an operation or nine months for a diagnostic test that can detect cancer early. Democracy is that the health centers in Carabanchel, Nou Barris, Seville, Xixón or that there is a pediatrician in Tineo, Aegean or Roa de Duero are not saturated. A country should not neglect the people who inhabit it. I do not believe that there is a democracy of young people who wash their hands in the face of the structural problems that they themselves create. The law that we defend today in Congress is of the utmost importance: to consolidate the right to the universality of public health care. It is not a matter of charity but of justice. Ladies and gentlemen, the pandemic has found us with a weakened health after decades of cuts and a patchy care system. Only the heroic effort of thousands of health and social health professionals kept the country standing at the worst moments of the pandemic. The suffering of society has been immense, exhausting. The health exclusions of 2012 have drawn the fracture lines through which the exclusions of the pandemic have occurred, yesterday's cuts have been the dead of today. It has been four years since we in Asturias said that in a decent country no one is left without medical care, four years since we promoted this law. We have been waiting four years, ladies and gentlemen, for Madrid to receive us to discuss this initiative in Congress. Today Asturias... [[Continues your bable intervention]] In Asturias we have followed with astonishment a violent and aggressive drift from those who have seen in the pandemic an opportunity to end with the Government of Spain and we have also seen with unquietness how Madrid has become a black hole that absorbed resources that the peripheries need in order to be able to provide health and social health care to the population. If there is no public health that reaches every corner of the country, every people and faces every need of the older population, which bears large waiting lists, our society dies. Ladies and gentlemen, today we want to send a message to Congress that highlights the structural aspects of social rights in the face of the short-term nature of electoral discourses. Today we ask you not to forget the applause of our health and health workers and to turn them into public policies. Today we ask you never to leave anyone behind. Thousands of peasants from my land, called Asturias, rebelled in 2011 and 2012 against the destruction of social protection, as had happened fifty years earlier in the 1962 strike. "There's a light in Asturias that heats up all of Spain," Madrid's Sánchez Ferlosio sang. In the darkest moments of democracy, when an attempt was made to destroy public health, there were people who also raised their voices. This is not a bill, this is a cry for hope. That is why we want to give a message to all the people who live here, in Madrid, and in other parts of the country and who struggle daily to defend the public and to defend our health. You're not alone, you're not alone, don't give up, we're more. [[Finish your bable intervention.-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-11-CD210511.u30	Thank you, Mr. Marí. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Finally, to present the initiative, he has the word don Ovidio Zapico González.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-11-CD210511.u31	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, very good afternoon. When the Asturian Parliament made use of the capacity granted to it by article 87.2 of the Constitution and approved by a large majority of its members this proposal for a bill, it was aimed at correcting what, in our opinion, had been an unfair and erroneous decision by the then President of the Government of Spain, Mr Rajoy, a decision that was placed in the unfortunate Royal Decree 16/2012, which came -?let me say - to put an unprecedented tijeretazo to public health care in our country. Today, nine years later, immersed in a monstrous pandemic, with 3,600,000 infected compatriots, it seems clear that cutting health policies was not a good idea. This proposal was intended, when it was put forward by the United Left Parliamentary Group, whose spokesman was Mr Gaspar Llamazares, to reverse a very important setback in health coverage and a very important setback in the universalisation of health. First, it was the decline in immigrant coverage. Immigrants without papers, in an attitude that roused xenophobia, were left without primary health care. Next were the Spanish emigrants abroad, who after being ninety days outside our country were expelled from the health care system. And then came all the inconsistencies and contradictions in relation to the rest of the citizens, which have made each autonomous community act in their air. It is true that at present some of the most damaging elements of the said royal decree have already been corrected, but it is also true, ladies and gentlemen, that the proposed legislative amendment that we bring to you goes beyond reversing this reform. Knowing that medicine as a depository of values is not a bad guide for the future, the proposal seeks to enshrine for the future the universalization of the right to health and health benefits, which, despite having been stated many times, does not exist as a legally established right. Certainly, despite the fact that the universalization of the health system was stated in the Constitution and the General Health Act, the Social Chamber of the Supreme Court reminded us just over a year ago that such a right does not yet exist. There is a judgment that clearly describes it, which describes how in 2012 there was a regression in the recognition of the right to health care that has not been fully reversed today. Ladies and gentlemen, the Asturian General Council has considered that it is time that in our country, in each and every one of its autonomous communities, that goal of universalization of the right to health is recognized, and for this reason we intend that in the General Health Law, that law which Ernest Lluch promoted thirty-five years ago, which I take advantage of to remember in this rostrum because I am one of those who think that the left must always pay tribute to its heroes, in that law, I specifically say that the first fundamental characteristic of our National Health System is the universalization of health care to all the population living in our country, Spanish and non-Spanish, because, among other things, ladies and gentlemen, viruses do not stop to distinguish administrative situations when it comes to contagious. The proposal seeks to give legal certainty to citizens by ensuring the universal nature of the health system and is in line with one of the WHO health objectives, which reflects among them the universality of health, as also contained in the UN Millennium Goals. And it also comes to this Parliament at a time when the pandemic has shown that in order for humanity to be safe, we must all be safe, a time also when ethics and hope seem to be opening up, as the debate on the release of patents is progressing and vaccines can become a universal right that crosses borders and breaks free trade, making the world a little more just. Today, simply, explicitly and legally effective recognition of the right to health care for all people living in our country is perfectly possible and ethically enforceable. What we are asking you to do is to make an effective political reality. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I humbly wish to ask you to vote in favour of this proposal, which comes from an autonomous community which has always regarded health as an irrevocable right and which therefore devotes almost 8% of its gross domestic product to financing, something which all Asturians and Asturians feel particularly proud of. Nothing more and thank you very much. Thank you, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-11-CD210511.u32	Thank you very much, Mr. Zapico. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group to set positions.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-11-CD210511.u33	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Allow me to greet the delegation of the General Board of the Principality of Asturias and the institution it represents. In its former sitting room I gave in 1987 my first steps in legislative activity and kept the unforgettable memory of my party colleagues, then Popular Alliance, and also of course of the other political groups, as well as of the officials, staff and regular journalists of our parliament. My gratitude for learning from all of them. Ladies and gentlemen, we are dealing with a proposal for a law on the universalisation of the right to public health care, which has accumulated a very long timetable since its birth. It was promoted nine years ago in the X Legislature By the then deputy of this House, Mr Llamazares Trigo, of the Parliamentary Group La Izquierda Plural, although not advancing in its processing here, in Congress, it subsequently reactivated the initiative in 2016 from its new seat in the Asturian Autonomous Parliament and its consideration through the proposals of law of autonomous communities and cities, which is what calls us in the session this afternoon. The initiative had had a fairly similar precedent, also with Mr. Llamazares by means of, in May 2011, which was approved by the Plenary of Congress, but fell with the end of the legislature a few months later. Ladies and gentlemen, we are faced with an outdated attempt to counter-program the measures that, through Royal Decree-Law 16/2012 of 20 April, were validated in the first months of the government of Mariano Rajoy, as Minister of Health Mrs Mato. That executive had inherited a very critical economic situation. So much so that, half a year earlier, Mr Rodríguez Zapatero had promoted the express reform of Article 135 of the Spanish Constitution - which, by the way, I voted against - and that is the one that is today serving as a pretext for the current government of Pedro Sánchez to collate, with the satisfaction of the European Union, very damaging proposals for the Spaniards. In 2012, Forum disagreed with the cuts made by the People's Party in different areas by the way of urgency, and not only in health, but today there is no point in trying to resolve those legislative measures with a proposal that emerged more than eight years ago, drawn up in a totally different economic, social and health context than we are living in, unfortunately very acute for the past year and a half with the COVID-19 pandemic and whose aftermath will go on for a long time. Already at the time, in 2017, following the initiative that is being reiterated this afternoon, it was estimated that applying health care in order to incorporate more than half a million foreign citizens into the public system and another three hundred thousand people awaiting regularisation would have an annual cost of €125 billion. In fact, this argument was applied by Mr Rajoy's Government, which submitted to the Bureau of Congress to express the disagreement under article 134 of the Spanish Constitution, which in its point 6 states: 'Any proposal or amendment that involves an increase in appropriations or a decrease in budgetary revenue will require the Government's consent for its processing'. Nor have successive governments chaired by Mr Sánchez since June 2018, with four different Ministers of Health, made progress in the adjustments in the health field, or at least in the dimension that arises with this text, because in practice the expenditure to meet the measures that this law seeks should be taken through new tax routes and indirect costs borne by all Spaniards, all in order to maintain budgetary stability. Therefore, the question is pertinent: who will pay for all this? It should be emphasized that it would be a serious irresponsibility for all new health benefits to be proposed, whether those which would result from the application of this law or others which would be implemented in the future, not to be accompanied by their corresponding budget allocation by the General Administration of the State. And we are already seeing in the last few weeks how the genius factory to get money out of people's pockets is in full operation. Let me hope that the looting that the Socialist Government intends to legalize, for example, with tolls for the use of motorways, will extend to other public services and, specifically, to health benefits. On time. Ladies and gentlemen, it is also important to note that it is the autonomous communities that have one of their main health costs, and hence the extraordinary importance of the government urgently undertaking the reform of the autonomous funding system in place since 2009 and that, to quote the case of Asturias, whose Parliament promotes this law, is manifestly unfair. The first is, therefore, financial resources for the autonomous communities to undertake their essential public services - education, health, aid to dependency and social services - because it should not be forgotten that what endangers the National Health System is precisely the lack of sufficient resources or the inability to deal with debts, which makes it difficult to supply hospitals, health centres and pharmacies or prevents adequate staffing. A health without sustainability has pernicious consequences that affect the whole population: waiting lists for surgical interventions are delayed and diagnostic tests are eternal because human and material resources are insufficient. At the Forum we believe and want a quality, universal, free health, but we need to make it sustainable, efficient, integrated and equitable. This law aims to expand health spending by incorporating more users in a critical period for the economy and employment, all in a context of population ageing, resulting in greater needs that are already exceeding the health system and increasing their debt. For all these reasons, my vote will be against the consideration of this law. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-11-CD210511.u34	Thank you very much, Mr. Martínez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Gorospe Elezcano has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group, EAJ-PNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-11-CD210511.u35	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. Firstly, Mrs Carcedo, Mr Marí and Mr Zapico, welcome to this house, to this House. It is a pleasure to discuss and listen to proposals that have been well received from other legislative chambers here. You, Mrs Carcedo, have made a correct temporal, chronological location of the initiative, and that is one of the aspects for which we show ours but to the initiative that you propose. As they have said, the original initiative was presented in 2017, and you were making a chronological review of various provisions that since that time to this part have been approved contrary to what was their vocation, which was to go back in time to a scenario prior to Decree-Law 16/2012, which established those limitations for universal access to public health, and that is a very important aspect, in our opinion. From our parliamentary group, the Basque Group, if we had to choose an adjective that qualified it, we would choose many - we are nationalists, sovereignists, but we are humanists - it would be above all one that was in line with our fundamental conception of working for the fairness and universality of health care. We therefore share the material aspect of the initiative that you proposed and also the competitive approach that it contains. And we say that to him because while Decree 7/2018, together with the Government of Sánchez, managed to limit the most restrictive aspects of Decree-Law 16/2012, regarding the universal right to health care, there were other aspects of a more competitive nature that followed and continues to maintain this other decree. Decree 16/2012 required the INSS to recognize the individual right of the person, who had to recognize him or her as an insured or beneficiary, losing what was previously stipulated, which was the general, collective recognition of the universal right to health care. The Decree of 2018, while, instead of the National Institute of Social Security, recognizes this attribution to the Ministry of Health, both decrees are attributed a competence that does not correspond to them according to article 149.1.16.a of the Constitution. We consider that even in this respect your proposal has value from a competitive perspective, but of course it is an extemporaneous initiative, either because that Decree-Law 7/2018 had been approved that removed the most harmful aspects, or, as you have said, because at this time the preliminary draft law on equity, universality and cohesion is in the public information phase in the ministry. Mr Zapico referred to the necessary certainty, the necessary legal certainty in order to make progress in this area. If this proposal for a law that you are presenting here succeeds and if it will also come to debate - we hope it will arrive soon - the draft law on equity, universality and cohesion, we would find ourselves simultaneously with two legal texts that would be regulating and addressing very similar aspects. Therefore, they would go against that which, in our view, is fundamental, from what you said, Mr Zapico: avoid inconsistencies and avoid legal uncertainty. For this reason, I insist, by sharing the spirit, the material and competitive background that the initiative has, by considering it out of time and because it can lead to confusion, our group will abstain. In any case, I insist on thanking you again for your exhibition.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-11-CD210511.u36	Thank you very much, Mrs. Gorospe. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Díaz Gómez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-11-CD210511.u37	Thank you, President. In 2012 the condition of ensuring Spanish public health was met by a decree that was very criticized then. Two levels are set for people with regard to public health. Persons who had some kind of relationship with Social Security, i.e. self-employed or self-employed social security contributors, who were discharged from social security, were entitled to health care; those who were pensioners to receive some kind of remuneration from Social Security, or who were recipients of any other benefit, such as unemployment. Those who had exhausted the benefit were also entitled to be registered with Social Security as applicants for employment. And for those who were out of these situations, a special agreement was signed. Foreign nationals without a residence permit were only entitled to emergency health care because of serious illness, accident or pregnancy assistance, childbirth or postpartum. Minors did. This was the situation established in the Royal Decree of 2012. This proposed law of the Board of the Principality of Asturias, which was approved in 2017, has remained during its fairly out of time processing, and I will now explain why. Between electoral calls and the paralysis that took place in this House some issues have been addressed, specifically in Royal Decree 7/2018, on universal access to the National Health System, which was validated in this House by a large majority. I will not turn this intervention into reproaches for what was done in 2012, since the circumstances were also very different -?the economic situation was very complex - but we do believe that Royal Decree 7/2018 was correct and that it gave back to Spanish health the founding spirit of which this House endowed it, and in particular Minister Ernest Lluch, who in one of the greatest exercises of greatness for our nation promoted the health law that now allows us to have universal health. ETA murdered the intellectual father of universal health in Spain and last November twenty years of that murder were celebrated. We remember him in the room that bears his name and I would like to use this speech to have a special memory for him, a man of another time, relatively close, in which agreements of height were reached in this House. This Royal Decree 7/2018 already complies, as I say, with some of the questions that are asked in the proposed law of the Board of the Principality of Asturias, others not, others not. And that is why we are going to vote in favour of dealing with this bill. I'll tell you why, too. It is an opportunity to give greater coherence to the regulatory framework, as rules that legislate in parallel with the Spanish health system now coexist, and experts are jurists who advise that the health system be given greater coherence. The way you are opening up is the reform of 14/1986, to which I referred, 16/2003 and 4/2000, which are rules which, during the course of the procedure, we will be able, through amendments, to achieve greater cohesion, so that all the rules have a common objective and have not been patched up with leaps in time, as we have been doing. Moreover, it is not by means of a royal decree-law that the Spanish health system is being established. [[The lady]] Then, there are issues such as the fact that at present the Royal Decree Law of 2018 sometimes leaves foreigners in somewhat complicated situations, because they must prove that they do not have health care in their country of origin, something that in law can be considered what they call the diabolical proof: on many occasions it is very difficult to prove that you do not have a right, to prove the absence of something is truly complicated and we believe that with the processing of the law this deficiency could be affected. We will vote in favour of this rule because we believe that the universalization of health is the best of systems; because, moreover, in this interconnected world it has already been shown that the health of an individual is the health of everyone; that xenophobia or'my thing' is the best ally of pandemics; that the prefix bread - annihilates any nationalism, any provincialism and any identity movement, and that they are doctrines whose effectiveness will never be scientific although it is proving that they do work at the propaganda level. In addition, there is the derivative burden of leaving many people without health care. These people, in the end, go to emergencies and emergency services and overload them as well, which is another side effect that has to be left unassisted by the population. And they are also the result of the ambiguity of Royal Decree 7/2018, which we believe we can improve now. Finally, I would like to thank you for bringing this proposal here, welcome to the Congress of Deputies, and I hope you will find your support to the extent possible. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-11-CD210511.u38	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much. I have the floor for the Plural Group, Mrs Sabanes Nadal.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-11-CD210511.u39	Thank you, President. Firstly, I would like to welcome the Members of this House who are bringing us a proposal today to guarantee the universalization of the right to health care. In our view, the right to health protection is an absolutely protected right in our constitutional model and, therefore, no discrimination can be introduced in the light of various administrative situations. The royal decree of 2012 was an unprecedented setback in our legislation, it was as unfair as it was dangerous as it was proposed; not only unfair but dangerous for public health, for public health coverage. And, moreover, it gave rise to positions that are still being maintained and that we will surely hear today: insolidaries, rupture of coexistence and inhumanity. That was the rule of 2012. It is true that Decree 7/2018 eliminated the worst effects of the 2012 rule, but there is a long way to go to restore in full, which is what we are talking about, the universalization of the right to health care; in full and with regulatory consistency of the different frameworks with which we have to work. From More Country-Greens Equo we had contemplated in the program the reform and the extension of the current Decree 7/2018. But, in addition, we raised this in the Commission on Reconstruction, in the health field, because we believed that it was so important, as has been shown later, that the right to universal health should be constitutionally safeguarded. That is why we are voting in favour of taking the proposal into consideration so that basic health-care rights can never be violated in our country again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-11-CD210511.u40	Thank you very much. [[Pausa.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's gallery.-Mr. Vice-President, Rodríguez Gómez de Celis, holds the Presidency]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-11-CD210511.u41	Mrs Cañadell Salvia has the floor for the Plural Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-11-CD210511.u42	Thank you, President. Welcome to the representatives and representative of the General Board of the Principality of Asturias. The health system is one of the fundamental pillars of every welfare state, and public and universal access is an obligation in any advanced democracy to protect the entire population, for humanity and because viruses and bacteria do not understand administrative barriers. In order to maintain the excellence of our health system and prevent it from collapsing in the future, I would like to recall that we need to address the endemic problem - I repeat, the endemic problem - of under-financing of the health systems of the autonomous communities. The autonomous communities have the competencies, but not the funding to meet the needs of the sector and the system. We must admit that the good results of the health system have to be attributed mainly to health professionals, to each and every one of them - during 2020 they have given us a great example - and not to the proper funding of the system. For example, according to a study by the Cercle de Salut, a cross-cutting entity working to improve the health system, it is estimated that in Catalonia another EUR 5 billion would have to be invested each year to place us in European standards. It is clear that the increase in economic resources in health is based on improved funding by the Government. In order for the autonomous communities to be able to provide their competences properly, they must be properly financed. That is why, from the Democratic Party, the PeCAT, we ask that the next step be to deepen the reform of the system in order to better address the current challenges and prepare it for future challenges. We will vote in favour of the non-legislative proposal and we would like to thank the representatives of the Board of the Principality of Asturias for their presentation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-11-CD210511.u43	Thank you so much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Eritja Ciuro has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-11-CD210511.u44	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon and a greeting to the members of the delegation of the Parliament of the Principality of Asturias. Thank you for your intervention. This initiative presents the proposal for a law on the universalization of the right to public health care. A proposal that has been repeated, has been taken to this Congress for several moments, but that so far it has not really been possible to raise its debate. Let us remember that it was first introduced in the XII Legislature, but the Rajoy Government at the time already expressed its disconformity and, finally, it was agreed that the consideration was not appropriate. Then, with the first government of the PSOE, it re-presents and admits itself, but finally ends up falling also because elections were called. It is therefore an initiative that has been repeated for years and that insists on incorporating into what would be the dynamics of Congress itself. However, we understand that this is about reversing the tremendous error that the Royal Decree-Law 2012 of the People's Party made for our group, which left foreigners without public health coverage without a residence permit. Perhaps this was the main title: it left a sector of the population without health coverage, a flagrant violation of human rights and the denial of article 43 of the Constitution, which enshrines the right to health protection. In fact, this measure was part of a comprehensive strategy to dismantle the welfare State with the corresponding cuts in public health and also with the reduction of the universal principle of access to health. From Esquerra Republicana we believe that universal access to health is not only one of the main indicators of a State's well-being - which is also - but is a tool above all for social cohesion and the fight against inequalities and a genuine fundamental and subjective right. That is why, from our parliamentary group, we understand that we have been in a situation of irregularity and democratic abnormality over the past nine years, which we can begin to reverse today. Our assessment of this proposed law is based on the provisions of Law 9/2017 of 27 June of the Parliament of Catalonia on the universalization of health care from public funds through the Servivei Català de la Salut. This law, in its preamble, states that the universalization of health care is not only an inescapable moral debt, but is an obligation derived from international norms and, in accordance with this, states that all residents of Catalonia have the right to health care from public funds through the Servivei Català de la Salut. In this regard, article 1 regulates the universal right to health care, establishing that all residents of Catalonia, in the matters established by this law, have the right to health care from public funds. It should be noted that the PP Government itself filed an appeal of unconstitutionality against this law, which entailed the immediate suspension of its effects, although, fortunately, that appeal was withdrawn following the change of government in 2018. The present proposal for a law, apart from amending some articles of the General Health Act to strengthen the principles of universalization and gratuity, has as its main focus the reform of article 3 of the Law on Cohesion and Quality of the National Health System. This proposal is also complemented by a reform of article 12 of the Organic Law on the Rights and Freedoms of Aliens and their Social Integration. It therefore includes recent legislative inputs. These changes are in line with the provisions of the Catalan Law on the Universalization of Health Care, which states in its article 2.3 that it is understood that registered persons and groups at risk of social exclusion are residents in a municipality of Catalonia who are at risk of rooting in Catalonia by means of the criteria established by regulations. At that point we would like to point out that we must consider that the concept of de facto residence that this new document provides goes far beyond the concept of resident that we establish in our Catalan law and, in that sense, the interpretation of Catalan law is aimed at considering the criteria of rooting linked to individuals and groups at risk of social exclusion. This implies that with the wording of this bill it can be considered that any alien with a de facto residence, although without financial resources, has the right to health care under the same conditions as the rest of the citizens. This is very important to us because it has just covered a whole series of discordant elements. For this reason, our position is to accept this initiative as it allows a better fit between the basic regulations and the regulations adopted in Catalonia, without prejudice to the fact that other elements that reinforce the coherence between the two rules can be incorporated during the process. Therefore, thank you very much, and in any case you have our support. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-11-CD210511.u45	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Fernández Castañón has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podem-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-11-CD210511.u46	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, parliamentarians of the General Council. I want to start with an appointment in Asturian, but it will be brief, so it is not necessary for the ladies and gentlemen of VOX to leave the Chamber, as they already do in the Parliament of Asturias. [[Continues your bable intervention]] These words are sung by the Dixebra group and, in my opinion, they perfectly define the identity, the way of being, the way of understanding community life in solidarity and in defence of the universal principles of human rights. In Asturias we were a host country when workers from different backgrounds came from within and outside the State to fight hard in the mine and in the Asturian industry; people who arrived from any point in time, shaped the reality of Asturias. And even in something as iconic, characteristic and identity as cider can be, they are compatriots of Equatorial Guinea or Ecuador who are now winners in these contests. And, therefore, we want for all people living in Asturias the same rights and welfare, because they are part of our people. The right to universal health is what this bill speaks of, which comes from the House of Asturias, my country, and which comes with years of delay to this Lower House, to Congress, of the State. Since its drafting, which we are celebrating, and of which one, as an Asturian, can only feel proud and acknowledge the work carried out by the Parliament of the Xunta General, there have been changes: a motion of censure that has cast the most corrupt government in Europe -?here it continues to declare every week in the National Audience -, a government that has emerged from a motion of censure with a series of programmatic agreements that United We Can be a part of, and a coalition government that has given a clear fight for social measures to be priority and that has done so in the face of an unprecedented pandemic, a health crisis that has put our lives painfully on the reverse for all. My sense of hug for all the people who have lost someone we loved so much in all these months. [[Applauds]] This legislative and pioneering proposal, which came to reverse the damage to health and citizenship caused by the 'austericide' policies of the People's Party, has inevitably been outdated. There are still some issues that are being addressed, that we value positively and that we demand to be part of our legislative system. There is still a way forward in what is a commitment to ensuring health for all people on an equal footing and social justice, and no, we will not tire of saying that our primary care needs to be armored in all territories, to be endowed with more resources, and that this is one of the most important teachings that has given us the health crisis that we live in. There are also others who are currently losing their sense, repeating themselves and even, as logically, hindering the legislative functioning, given the time at which the text was composed and worked and the changes I have already reported. But this, and I want to make it very clear, is not an excuse, it is not a justification for voting against this proposal. The possible repetitive batburrillo does not justify a vote against a text that defends universal health, although these changes are mainly reflected in Royal Decree 7/2018 of 27 June. Anyway, there is no reason to give a negative vote when we are talking about the defense of universal health, because citizens do not understand legislative practice so much. We could discuss this, because I believe that this, legislative practice should be taught much more in schools, as well as the very functioning of democracy, which should be part of the academic curriculum, because democracy is defended by exercising and knowing it. But what we're talking about, and what I think citizenship understands, is the recognition of rights. My group wants to make it clear, just as my colleagues from Podemos Asturias and Izquierda Unita d'Asturies have defended it -?Thank you, comrades, Daniel Ripa and Ovidio Zapico; thank you -, that in the guarantee of rights, in the universal recognition of health as an indisputable right for every person in this country we will never say no. Moreover, in the time left for me, I would like to say a few words again in the language that many Asturians and Asturians speak, and in which we also demand rights as speakers. It will be brief, President. [[Finish your bable speech.-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-11-CD210511.u47	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Figaredo Álvarez-Sala has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-11-CD210511.u48	Thank you so much. In order to prevent the Bureau Presidency from cutting me off, as I usually do, I will try to be very brief. We have attended the theatre of absurdity today, the truth. Mrs. Castañón, your intervention, partly in a more or less invented language, that sha that gets out of the sleeve, proves... [[Mrs Fernández Castañón: It is Asturian!]] No, it's not Asturian, it's a language they invented before yesterday. And to understand all this drama that we have lived here today, we have to understand that whoever brings this proposal is not the General Assembly of the Principality, it is not Asturias, it is not the Asturians, it is the Socialist Party mainly, supported by Podemos and the United Left, which, in the end, are exactly the same. What you're doing here today is just a Stalinist, Leninist or even Cuban tactic -? like Gaspar Llamazares, who comes from being educated in Havana -, that in the end it is only to throw a smokescreen, a smokescreen to distract us, to distract ourselves!, yes!, to everyone!, the Asturians, the Spaniards, distract us from the real problems and the knife that hides behind this smokescreen. [[rumors]] I will explain myself, I will explain myself so that you understand it because, apart from these two issues, smoke and knife curtain, this norm does not intend to solve any real problem, because today in Spain health is already universal, you say what you say! The proof is that there is no popular request for this more than an artificially drawn need for a Socialist Party complicit with the Board of the Principality, who come here to play the game of the trilero. So that it doesn't seem like they're the ones who bring him in, he's brought in by the Principality Board, making a perfect clamp between Mr. Barbón in Asturias and Mrs. Lastra in the Congress of Deputies, which, unfortunately, isn't here today. I'm saying it's a smokescreen, why? Because Mr Barbón, instead of legislating for Asturias, instead of serving the Asturians and having a clean 'home' - in quotes - he intends to start doing national politics. Mr. Barbon has already said that regional politics bores him and that he wanted to be in the Congress of Deputies. Well, it looks like he's trying to do it today! Why do I say Mr. Barbon doesn't clean his house? Mr Martínez Oblanca has already said that the waiting lists for Health in Asturias are endless. The situation is regrettable, but there are very specific issues: many regions of Asturias - in particular, think of Cangas de Narcea, Pola de Allande, Ibias, Degaña - do not have a mobile UVI! A few days ago, weeks, almost a month ago, there was an accident in Tineo and the mobile UVI that came to rescue the injured person had to leave from Mieres, an hour and four minutes takes to arrive from Mieres to Tineo! Of course, this accidental person died. It is a very, very, very improveable health service!, but Mr.Barbón prefers to look elsewhere and come here with grandiloquencies, with almost megalomania, to try to solve invented problems again. [[Applauds]] Think of those cardiology or internal medicine places at Jarrio Hospital, which are still vacant! Let us also think of those pediatric places - two pediatric places - in Tineo, which were vacant; now they have covered one, oh, surprise!, with an interim. Instead of contesting those two places, you, Socialist Party, put an interim. That's right, they bring us here this smokescreen, this giant project, when the little thing, what they have nearby and what they can do they don't solve. [[Applauds]] The Asturians expect a real government, a government that serves the real interests of the people and not the marketing of the Socialist Party. Let's get on with it. The Pediatrics Service in Trubia also remains vacant; again, they have brought an interim to cover these positions. But the reality is that Asturian health misses a deep job, a deep job, a real job, much more than these figures, these babble speeches, these boonist speeches, which in the end are fallacies. If Mr Barbón is not able to manage Asturias, he will hardly be able to manage or legislate for Spain. He is, in short, wearing an eleven-barred shirt and we should tell him that of'snatter, to your shoes', because Asturias does not stop losing population: ten thousand inhabitants in the last year; it is said soon: the region has lost ten thousand people. Asturias is one of the regions that suffers the most fiscal pressure, an expoliation in every rule; the Asturian industry dissolves leaving people on the street year after year; the railway infrastructures, as soon as possible, will arrive twenty years after what they promised us; the ports of Asturias, on their pointy day, lose more traffic every day; the hospitality is one of the most punished in Spain. Mrs Castañón and gentlemen of the Asturian Parliament, go tell the hoteliers that they bring giant projects for Spain, but that the little ones in Asturias are not able to control it, dare; approach the Asturian hospitality and tell them to the face, because they will explain to them the reasons why every day, every day!, they lose impact in the region. [[applause]] It's logical. The knife that hides this rule is a direct attack on all the officials of Spain, because this rule says that public assistance will not be free for those who, being included in some administrative mutuality, have not opted to receive health benefits through the public network. Gentlemen, with this rule health will be accessible to all, except if you are an official, which then will not be so accessible to you. [[Applauds]] Finally, gentlemen, you are a liar and in the end you are a liar who pretend to deceive the people, because in Asturias it is possible that your son may have to emigrate; you may work at Expol, but it is possible that the disastrous management of the government has made your job disappear; it is possible that a mobile UVI has taken so long to get to assist you that you died in the attempt; even it is possible that you may have had to close your restaurant or coffee shop; but don't worry, because Barbon legislates nationally from Asturias and we will have bable and his children will study mathematics in bable in a few years' time if things continue as they go. Thank you so much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-11-CD210511.u49	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] I have the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mrs Velasco Morillo.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-11-CD210511.u50	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Today we are discussing the consideration of a proposal for a law of the Parliament of the Principality of Asturias, whose members I welcome on behalf of the People's Parliamentary Group. It is not new in this House, since it was already presented by the Socialist Parliamentary Group and the United Left Parliamentary Group, even going to discuss its consideration in the year 2015, in the X Legislature. This bill presented to us was promoted by the United Left and approved by the Asturian Parliament at the end of March 2017. First of all, I have to transfer to you that for the People's Parliamentary Group this initiative is out of time. It comes at a time when the priority of the Autonomous Communities, including that of Asturias, is to have a legal framework that gives them the necessary legal instruments to take measures to protect public health and prevent transmission of contagion after the state of alarm has been completed. They need legislative measures that are alternative to the state of constitutional exceptionality, to the state of alarm that the president of my party, Pablo Casado, has been claiming from President Sánchez since the first state of alarm, in March 2020. Despite its commitment to address these legal reforms through Vice-President Calvo, the Government has done absolutely nothing for a year. Ladies and gentlemen, it is inconceivable that fourteen months after the state of alarm statement our country does not have a stable legal instrument alternative to exceptional legislation, which gives legal certainty to all citizens, regardless of whether they live in Asturias, Madrid or in my autonomous community, Castile and León, as well as legal certainty to public administrations involved in the global emergency. Ladies and gentlemen, the virus is still between us and the Sánchez Government has left the autonomous governments alone, despite the warnings even from the Council of State, judges of the higher courts of justice and even some judges of the Supreme and never seen it: it has delegated legislative and executive competence to the courts. Once again, the President of the Government hides himself when Spain is in trouble because of the chaos that he himself has generated because he does not have an organic law of a state character that facilitates the management of this pandemic and of any other that may arise in the future, a law that allows the autonomy that may take those measures that they consider necessary to safeguard public health without resorting to the state of alarm and prioritizing the guarantee of fundamental rights, the effectiveness, agility, security and protection of citizens. Thanks to the passivity of this Government during this year we have found ourselves in these days with resolutions different from the courts on the same measure, according to the autonomous community in question. Thanks to the inaction of the Government, we have met a delegate of the Government demanding that an autonomous community adopt a measure that the courts themselves directly reject on the grounds that it is not admitted into ordinary law. This chaos, uncoordinatedness and senselessness has caused them to lack of action and excessive arrogance of this Government. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are talking about the rights to health protection and health care for all citizens set out in Article 43 of the Spanish Constitution, to defend the guiding values and principles on which the National Health System is based and the basic principles to which public health responds: universality, equality, non-discrimination, accessibility, equity, solidarity and quality. These are principles contained in the conclusions of the Commission for Social and Economic Reconstruction in the section on governance of health and public health, which were adopted in the House in July 2020, and on which we have had little or no development by the government. Focusing on health care, the health care situation experienced during the peak months of the COVID-19 pandemic has led us to develop in parallel a health crisis that affects the basic principles mentioned above. We are talking about people who have been affected by the increase in waiting lists in surgical interventions, specialist consultations, diagnostic tests, treatments, delays in diagnosis and care for patients with diseases such as cancer or cardiovascular diseases. Ladies and gentlemen, the National Health System has been under great stress. As of yesterday, 3,581,391 confirmed cases of COVID and 78,895 people died, more than 100,000, according to excess mortality until February. Until yesterday, there were 8531 people in hospitals, 2331 in ICU, and I wish them all a speedy recovery. We are talking about people who, regardless of where they are in Spain, their age, their social status or nationality, have been infected by this terrible virus. Let me also thank you for the great work of all the healthcare professionals and the more than 140 000 who have become infected. They are all exhausted today after more than a year of dedication and sacrifice; they now need and demand that prevention be among the Government's priorities because it is key to public health and that the Executive not act late, as we have unfortunately seen during the pandemic. The Government has created situations of insecurity and lack of clarity in the criteria for access to the constitutional right to public health care, insecurity with its own legal norms, as we have seen with the new Law on the Normality and Use of Masks, insecurity that we are also seeing this afternoon, with this taking into account this proposed law. Or, on the other hand, the law that appears in the Plan of Recovery, Transformation and Resilience, the preliminary draft law of measures for the equity, universality and cohesion of the National Health System, which on December 2 ended the period of public consultations. Ladies and gentlemen, once again today the government of the Socialist Party in Asturias and the government of the Socialist Party of Spain are putting us into chaos through two bills that ultimately pursue the same thing. What a piece of paper you have, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Parliamentary Group! Legal certainty is not yours for the Spanish or for the autonomous communities. The Spaniards have already opened the door to him with the election results of the Community of Madrid, they have put him...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-11-CD210511.u51	Mrs. Velasco, please finish, as your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-11-CD210511.u52	...a motion of censure on Plan C of Mr. Sanchez' chaos. That is why I ask you to support the legal plan proposed to you by the People's Party a year ago. For these reasons... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-11-CD210511.u53	Your Honor, your time is up. Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, I have the floor, Mrs Carcedo Roces.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-11-CD210511.u54	Thank you very much, President. Welcome, parliamentarians of the General Council of the Principality, that very impeccable Parliament where I too started my steps as a parliamentarian, as did Mr Martínez Oblanca, but, yes, in the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party. Before I begin my speech, I would like to express my sincere thanks for the initiative of the General Assembly of the Principality, which was adopted, in accordance with its own rules of procedure and according to its Statute of Autonomy, in a majority in the Parliament of Asturias - Mr Barbón, by the way, was not a member of the General Assembly at that time - to the parliamentary groups which set it up and, in a special way, to Mr Llamazares, a very well-known Member, very dear and very much appreciated in these General Courts and who has always been meant by a closed defence of public health and, in particular, by the recovery of universality and the elimination of co-operatives. I thank you for your special work in bringing this initiative here today. It starts this initiative, although the avatars of the regulations of the respective Chambers and of the various dissolutions of legislatures have made it come here at this time, when many other things have happened; it was then a necessary initiative because, as was well reported here, all the initiatives registered in that direction in this Congress had been systematically rejected. Therefore, initiatives were also taken where possible, in this case the legislative initiative constitutionally reserved for the Autonomous Communities. They start at a time when the health situation in our country was a situation of enormous concern on the part of those who had worked and built such a universal and equitable National Health System, and it was attacked, in our view, in a way that attacked the very core of the definition of the right to health care. The right of citizenship is replaced by a right linked to benefits in relation to Social Security, and being a right of citizenship becomes a kind of insured or beneficiary, as appropriate. Therefore, it not only excluded a part of the citizenship that lived and resided in our country, but it also frontally attacked the concept of the right to health protection and health care. Indeed, the General Health Law was at the origin of the consolidation of this constitutional right, but gave it a very specific form as a right of citizenship and under the criteria of equity, universality and quality, designing the National Health System to make that right effective for all citizens by creating a national health system that pursues social and territorial cohesion. We are therefore faced with one of the most valued policies by the Spanish citizen -?if the repeated surveys are repeated - and also by the professionals, who yes, gave the size now, but also then, and although there were people excluded from the assistance they attended, at risk of anything, because they are health professionals and attend to anyone who comes to their consultation. Decades of work by health administrations have made possible the creation of this National Health System, which is, together with the Dutch system, the most accessible in the European Union, and I would dare say about the world. Only 0.1 % of the lowest income, of the lowest 20 %, shows that it suffers from some rejection of health care; the average in Europe is 3 %. We had achieved a very accessible and very equitable system, and with the royal decree mentioned repeatedly here, on 16/2012, these two criteria and these two foundations of our National Health System were put at risk. We were faced with a need to reverse this royal decree which, by the way, came to this House - and we were not able to make any amendments - by bringing about drastic changes in a right as basic as that of health care. There was a paradox that that royal decree came to this House at the time when the United Nations was proclaiming the Universal Health Coverage Programme at the 2012 General Assembly, which urged member countries to ensure universal health coverage for all. That was reality. In Asturias, the Asturian Social Agenda was launched and this legislative initiative was approved to reverse all these situations and that there were no social and health impacts on our population. With the new government - it was cited here - one of the first measures was to reverse this situation with the Royal Decree-Law 7/2018, and the second most harmful measure, of this royal decree of 2012, was that of the barriers in access to a basic issue such as medicine. In this year's general budgets of 2021, six million people have been incorporated into the co-payments, thus favouring not only access to the benefit, but also access to the medicine. These are two fundamental measures...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-11-CD210511.u55	Your Honor, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-11-CD210511.u56	...who walk in the same direction as the decree that brings us... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-11-CD210511.u57	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-11-CD210511.u58	We move on to the agenda item on non-legislative proposals. We begin with the non-law proposal of the Socialist Parliamentary Group on rare diseases. Mr Navalpotro Gómez has the floor for the presentation of the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-11-CD210511.u59	Good afternoon. Our group brings to this House a non-legislative proposal similar to that adopted in the Health Commission last March. We also present it here in response to the demands of associations of patients with rare diseases and their families. With this initiative we want to continue to help spread and raise the awareness of Spanish society about the problems of this group, and we bring it with the intention of repeating the consensus reached in the Committee on Health, where we were able to adopt the GNP unanimously. We are talking about a group of up to three million people, people living with genetic, chronic, multisystemic and degenerative pathologies, people who see their quality of life and that of their family reduced and who require important efforts to prevent morbidity and early mortality associated with their disease, people whose diseases are almost always difficult to diagnose and complicated and late treatment. Currently only 10% of rare diseases have good treatment available. Ladies and gentlemen, rare diseases are a huge challenge for our health system by forcing it to take care of known diseases and treatments with unknown diseases. That's why he needs his own journeys and specificities in the health care system. In this sense, the socialist governments have always been committed to trying to improve the situation of these patients. During the Government of President Rodríguez Zapatero launched the Biomedical Research Center in Rare Diseases Network and the centers, services and reference units of the National Health System, the CSUR, were created. From the creation of these centers the patients had the opportunity to be treated on equal terms, regardless of their place of residence, to receive care from a multidisciplinary team and to ensure continuity in care at different stages of the patient's life and care levels. A little later, in 2009, also with socialist government, a decisive step was taken with the creation of the Rare Disease Strategy. It was the first time that a Government had initiated a specific plan for that group. This strategy included improvements in the care, prevention and early detection of these diseases, health and social health care, therapies and research, as well as promoting training and information for professionals and affected persons and their families. While this strategy was updated in 2014, today we see that it is not enough, today we believe that a new momentum is needed, and this new momentum is needed especially after these fourteen months of pandemic. At this time everything has been even more difficult for patients and their families. Many patients have had problems in the care of their pathology, especially with therapies, but also in diagnostic tests, in consultations with specialists and in surgical interventions, which makes it difficult to treat their disease, and all this must be added to the uncertainty added by not knowing the effects and consequences that they may have with their disease if they contract the virus. We share with the associations of patients the need to improve the health care that these patients receive: we need to improve prevention and early diagnosis, we need to provide adequate care for the needs of patients at the different stages of their disease, we need to make a greater effort in research and continue to improve the training of healthcare professionals, and we need to deepen access, in terms of equity, to treatments and the use of advanced therapies; in short, we need to do more. Therefore, in this NLP we propose to carry out a new monitoring and evaluation report of the Rare Diseases Strategy that serves to assess the need to update the strategy of these diseases, to promote the Rare Diseases Strategy of the National Health System maintaining the subsidies to the autonomous communities for their proper implementation, and to recover the endowment of the Health Cohesion Fund in the general budgets, promoting the network of centers, services and reference units, as approved in the Reconstruction Commission. This Cohesion Fund makes it possible to compensate for the costs of health care provided in the CSURs when there are movements between autonomous communities for health treatments, which can cover the whole of the national territory and cater for all patients on equal terms, regardless of their place of residence. Hence the importance of recovering the budget of this fund with almost EUR 34 million, which the previous Government left under minimums; this means multiplying almost ten times the amount allocated to it. The Socialist Group is committed to progressing towards universalisation and ensuring the criterion of equity with patients. We will continue to make progress in integrating rare diseases into the overall planning of universal coverage effectively, ensuring access to diagnosis and treatment for all people, regardless of the disease they suffer. The pandemic has allowed us to see that health is one of the most important and equitable public policies. That is why this group reaffirms once again its commitment to public health. That is why in the past year the Government established an extraordinary loan of 9 billion for the Autonomous Communities to strengthen the health system during the crisis of COVID-19. That is why the current budgets provide our health with an extraordinary investment that will multiply by ten times that of the previous budget, 40% more if European funds are excluded. And that's why we're presenting this non-law proposal today. We are confident that the rest of the groups will join this initiative. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-11-CD210511.u60	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the defence of the amendments put forward by your groups, Mr Martínez Oblanca is speaking first of all, by the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-11-CD210511.u61	Thank you very much, Mr President. A few moments ago we discussed the universalization of health care and with this parliamentary initiative that Mr Navalpotro has defended, we intend to make progress in integrating those needs of rare diseases into the overall planning of universal coverage in an effective way, and it also does so with a call to the guarantee to access the diagnosis and treatment of all people, regardless of the disease they suffer, and all this according to criteria of equity. It is a correct line, because it is known that the low prevalence of these diseases generates absence or delay in diagnosis, and therefore, in their treatment, as well as the problems of information on care and technical assistance, and lack of adequate social and health care, persist. It is true that a remarkable effort has been made in Spain over the course of the century to expand attention to low-prevalence diseases, but it will always be a challenge for public administrations to improve and extend the benefits of the National Health System and the number of centres, services and reference units. That is the content of this non-legislative proposal by the Socialist Group, to which I have tabled an addendum amendment on one of the aspects that need to be dealt with when we talk about rare diseases. I am referring to so-called orphan medicines, which are products that do not attract the interest of the pharmaceutical industry because their marketing is aimed at the diagnosis, prevention or treatment of a very small number of patients, which affects those who suffer from a rare disease at risk of life or are very serious. It is a question of economic profitability; pharmaceutical companies are not dedicated to producing these products because they have a very low commercial output and therefore do not receive their protection - hence the designation of orphans -. In fact, the European Commission itself is promoting a new European pharmaceutical strategy to develop the level of competitiveness in the field of Community biopharmaceutical innovation and to improve aspects such as patients' access to the medicinal product, which has as a side effect, worth the expression, the lack of incentives to R & D, which were decisive for medicines that fight rare diseases. In view of this risk of reducing these incentives, I have tabled an amendment which seeks that the plenary of Congress also urge the Government to apply economic and fiscal incentives that encourage pharmaceutical companies to investigate, develop and market these types of medicines for the treatment of rare diseases. In the European Union, an orphan designation already allows you to benefit from incentives such as reduced tariffs and protection against competition once the medicinal product is placed on the market. However, in Spain there is room to reinforce this impulse in favor of patients with this type of disease. In this sense, it is worth noting that only 5% of the more than 6500 rare diseases diagnosed worldwide have treatment and that many are unknown and have no diagnosis, hence the importance of the study and research work, which on many occasions have to be driven by the affected themselves both in the search for scientists who are involved in research lines and in the search for funds and funding to deal with them. I would not like to take this opportunity to take this matter up without referring to the need for solutions to be sought to adequately address the displacements that those affected by this type of disease must make to the centres, services and reference units to receive specialized attention on their pathology, displacements that in many cases are very long both in distance and in time, resulting in personal and family wear. Nothing more, Mr. President. We are faced with a good parliamentary initiative that will support my vote, although I think it can be greatly enriched by the various amendments tabled. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-11-CD210511.u62	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Díaz Gómez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-11-CD210511.u63	Thank you, President. What are we talking about? A rare disease affects less than five people per 100,000 inhabitants. There are some seven thousand ailments, which are presented in isolation, but which affect three million people in Spain alone and 7% of the world's population. In other words, being a patient of a rare disease is much more common than the disease that suffers. Those affected by a disease of these characteristics suffer for two main reasons, in addition to the illness itself, and I will describe them temporarily, based on the data provided by the Spanish Federation of Rare Diseases. The first is because they have something for a time that they don't know what it is: parents who don't know what happens to a child, who usually also suffers; people who develop symptoms of something for which no one gives them an explanation, sometimes for up to ten years -?the diagnosis takes a lot, the average is four years, although 20% of the patients have had to wait ten years for someone to explain what happens to them - and, moreover, while waiting for this diagnosis, there is no treatment or support of any kind, sometimes because of confusion or not knowing that there is inadequate treatment, so it also happens many times, in 31% of the cases, that when the diagnosis is made, the situation is much more serious than when the illness started or was detected. The second reason for this suffering is that, once they are aware of the pathology they suffer, treatment and attention are enormously expensive. Usually it is the parents who take care of these costs, in 60% of the cases; 30% of the time it is the couple, and 10% of the children take care of their sick parents. The costs have an average of 320 euros per month, and you don't have to tell them what this means for most of the Spanish family savings. The expenses are of many kinds; they have to think about medicines, treatment, orthopaedics, transportation, personal assistance or accommodation adaptations. But one of the main origins of the costs of rare diseases is the movement to the CSURs, to the service centres and reference units, which are distributed quite unevenly in Spanish geography and which often assume that they have to move and stay away from their homes both the patient and those who care for them. The fragmentation of the National Health System hinders the treatment of rare diseases and also makes it very uneven, very unequal the treatment to continue depending on which area of Spain the patient and his family live in. Only 5% of rare diseases have treatment and only 48% of the drugs discovered and which are effective against these diseases are available in Spain. Please take into account the statements made here by Mr Martínez Oblanca's good friend with regard to orphan medicines. In the case of rare diseases this is one of the paradigms of territorial inequality in health, for this dispersion of the CSURs I tell you. What do we propose? What have we proposed in our amendments? In addition to making a strong commitment to research - we know that research is never isolated, what is discovered in that of a rare disease always ends up reverting to the benefit of another matter - we argue that the Rare Diseases Strategy in the National Health System, which is 2014 but which is quickly obsolete, needs to be updated; we propose the training of primary care professionals on rare diseases and improve their collaboration with the specialists of these CSURs to whom I have referred; we propose to evaluate the staffing and distribution of the CSURs to ensure equity throughout the national territory; we propose to compensate for the travel and accommodation costs of those who have to travel to the CSURs; to contemplate the reduction of the daytime of those who have to take care of a family member who suffers from such a disease; to ensure adequate funding for research, as I have told you, and, in order to end, an express recognition of this House to those who suffer from a rare disease and to those who care for them. This is everybody's business. However, while I would ask you to accept our amendments, I am voting in favour of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-11-CD210511.u64	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor for the Plural Parliamentary Group, which will also fix its position at this time.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-11-CD210511.u65	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Compromis has tabled an amendment to this non-legislative proposal, which is also the result of a GNP which we ourselves registered a few weeks ago. It is an amendment that we believe goes to the point, to the important, to the urgent, to the present, and that is that it prioritizes in the vaccination of people with rare diseases that involve a special vulnerability to COVID-19, especially those who suffer cardiac or respiratory impairment, and that, in addition to according to the Spanish Federation of Rare Diseases, it is studied which pathologies within these diseases pose an added risk, whether for reasons of health or social isolation. This is what several States of the European Union are already doing, setting priorities for specific groups, for patients suffering from these rare diseases, as in the case of the neighbouring country, France. We welcome the prioritization approved at the interterritorial council last March of vaccines for transplanted people, for those with chronic kidney disease with dialysis and cancer patients or immunosuppression, but we believe that we can now take a step further and urge to continue this step and initiate the priority vaccination to this group of patients with rare diseases and their caregivers. We also announce that, regardless of whether our amendment is accepted or not, which we consider reasonable and which could be adopted very easily, we will vote in favour of GNP.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-11-CD210511.u66	Thank you very much. Mrs Cañadell Salvia has the floor. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-11-CD210511.u67	Thank you, President. Rare or minority diseases, due to their complexity and lack of scientific knowledge, are often difficult to diagnose and treat. In many cases, as explained by the Catalan Federation of Minorities, little knowledge of these diseases makes decision-making by the health system inadequate. In addition, patients are affected by an endless number of difficulties: poor coordination between hospital and external care, reduced autonomy, lack of information and competent professional guidance, difficulties of integration into the work, social and family environment. To improve the quality and life expectancy of citizens suffering from such diseases, it is necessary to promote research in the development of treatments and to design a joint approach in the field of public health policies. We have a public health research system that is of excellence, but at the same time it is very fragile because it is often subject to competitive public calls that are insufficient, without consolidated human resources and often disconnected from practical application. From PeCAT, to ensure the sustainability of the system and stimulate innovation, we advocate increasing per capita funding in research and development, betting on the threefold assistance-teaching-research and public-private collaboration. For all that, we will vote in favour of this bill, while reminding the Socialist Group that it is in the hands of the Government to increase funds for biomedical research, as well as to review and evaluate the Rare Diseases Strategy of the National Health System, as the Spanish Federation of Rare Diseases has been demanding for years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-11-CD210511.u68	Thank you. Mrs De Meer Méndez has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-11-CD210511.u69	Thank you very much, Mr President. Go ahead our support, the support of the VOX Parliamentary Group, to all people and families who suffer from a rare disease, to all those who go through the calvary of uncertainty, of lack of research, of lack of support; to those mothers who suffer because they do not have an early diagnosis for their children and, above all, to those for whom that late diagnosis makes them very late; to all those people who know what hours are of ICU, tubes and cables, doubt and empty arms. I want to remember especially, besides, Manuel, Angelman's syndrome, and his wonderful family and his wonderful lesson; I want to remember those who have Moebius syndrome, Prader-Willi syndrome; I want to remember the Marfan syndrome, the amyotrophic lateral sclerosis and the battle so brave that he is waging Jordi Sabate; the suffering of the five hundred children in Spain who suffer from butterfly skin, so horrible, that they have to be blinded day and night, that they have to invest their caregivers three hours in blinding them every day, and that our system, our Social Security does not cover them even the material they need for the cures; I want to remember the familiar melanoma, the blue evil, of all those who suffer other neurodegenerative or autoimmune diseases, primary biliary cholangitis, the syndrome of - I will say fatal - Sjögren, that the one who suffers it is my idol; of the Cardiopatas, of all those who have gone forward and of their heart has not been able to do so. [[applause]] However, I would also like to point out that this scene, this non-legislative proposal, is still a hypocrisy, because we have a Socialist Party that urges the Socialist Party government to support people with rare diseases. Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, I do not know if you are kidding us, because, when you want to finance a study on non-binary gender, you do; when you want to finance lesbian visibility in the Gambia, you do; when you want to do workshops and campaigns of toxic masculinity, you do; when you want to reform mine hotels, you pay it and put those 80 000 euros in the general state budgets. [[applause]] When they want to do something, they use the general state budgets and the State Official Gazette. Therefore, we are facing here a story that you tell to associations, to the Spanish Federation of Rare Diseases, to families that need it so much; therefore, a gigantic lie. The reality is a social emergency, like so many others, but a particularly serious emergency because a patient waits an average of four years for the diagnosis - in some cases, ten years, which make the disease irreparably worse - because half of the patients do not have covered the costs of the health products they need for their rare disease, because 15% use orphan medicines, which, as the partner of Foro Asturias has said, are the great trap of rare diseases; those medicines for which the Government of Spain is not betting, because 52% of the orphan medicines approved by Europe have not been approved in Spain. Accelerated funding and support for orphan medicines are urgently needed. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, 17% of patients do not have the means to travel to the hospitals and specialists they need. Ladies and gentlemen, can we dispense with an observatory so that we can pay these people who need to approach the reference centres? This is a social emergency that needs urgent support measures, that needs courageous measures, that needs State Official Gazette and general budgets, that needs national coordination, that needs urgent support and funding of the unit. It can't be that all these people who suffer from a disease, who need someone else, who are dependent have no funding or face two- and three-year-old bureaucracy before they have it. Ladies and gentlemen, you are outraged when we say that the state invests 4700 euros in a table square per month and, however, you are not shocked when dependency subsidies don't even give to buy at the pharmacy. Ladies and gentlemen, this is your hypocrisy! But in the face of that attack... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-11-CD210511.u70	Your Honor, your time is up. Thank you so much. Thank you for everything. [[Mrs. De Meer Mendez continues to speak]] Your Honor, your time is up. Thank you. [[Applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Group, on the stand.-Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Angolo Romero has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group. Mrs Ángulo ROMERO: Thank you, President. Gentlemen of the PSOE, indeed, they bring an initiative that has already been approved, which has surprised us a little, but in any case dealing with the situation of people with rare diseases will always seem timely, especially with the worsening suffered this year. These are diseases that affect 3 million people in Spain, who live in great difficulties to achieve a normal life project. Families first face the difficulty of getting a diagnosis and then access to effective treatments. Feder points out that 20% of patients take ten years to get a diagnosis and, meanwhile, do not receive support or treatment. In 2014, the Ministry of Health updated the National Rare Disease Strategy, which addressed early detection, socio-health care, therapies, research, because if there is something important for these diseases is research. We therefore demand that the Government fulfil the mandate of the Reconstruction Commission to devote 2% of GDP to research in the health sector as well. Because we are very much afraid that the fall in public health investment announced in the plan sent to Europe, allocating only 1.5% of European funds, will be a missed opportunity for the necessary strengthening of our system after the pandemic. You talk a lot about public health, but when you can devote extraordinary resources, nothing at all. It is a much needed investment to boost the CSRR network, ensuring its sustainability with specific funding from the Cohesion Fund, its integration into the European reference networks, which started the People's Party government in 2016, and thereby equity in access to treatments for all patients, live where they live in Spain. As important is to strengthen the Rare Disease Registry, also created in 2015, already approving a unique registry that covers all rare diseases. And it is a priority, as other speakers have said, to advance in innovative models for access to orphan medicines, reducing the period of authorisation, as Germany has done or as the People's Party Government did in 2017 with innovative medicines, through agreements based on shared risk or payment for results. Because today only 44% of those authorised in Spain are marketed in Spain. And to this difficult reality is added the COVID, which has assumed that 94% of these patients have seen their attention lost. That is why our amendment seeks to take from the government a genuine commitment to people who suffer from rare diseases, to update the national strategy in consensus with the autonomous communities, healthcare professionals and patients and in cooperation with the technological and pharmaceutical industry, giving a strong boost to R & D+i. Because, ladies and gentlemen, if we have learned from this health crisis, it is that shared work and public-private collaboration can optimize resources and develop treatments in record time. And it is necessary to recover the social and health care, vital for the evolution of these pathologies, very affected this year. A care that has been provided by families and associations such as Feder, to whom today we reiterate our appreciation. Families in constant struggle to know what their children have and find treatment, which takes them many years and much suffering and so we ask that their participation in decision-making be facilitated. For the People's Party people with rare diseases have always been and will be a priority, and we have demonstrated this in our government action. People -?I mention again - like Mencía, a girl from Zafra with KAT6A syndrome, disease with physical and psychological degenerative consequences, of which there are barely twenty cases in Spain, so the research and the possibility of getting treatment are very scarce today. I know the suffering of your family, and for them and for the responsibility that the People's Group has always shown, we will again reach an agreement with you to move this initiative forward. But also for them and for the rest of the Spaniards, we demand President Sánchezque leave his bunker, to listen to the experts and Pablo Casado's proposal to fight the pandemic and save lives, because the virus is still there. [[applause]] Does it not seem to you that because of their irresponsibility and negligence - why not say it - too many lives have already been lost in this country? To us yes and to the Spaniards too; listen to them. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-11-CD210511.u71	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Parliamentary Group Euskal Herria Bildu, Mr Ruiz de Pinedo Undiano has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-11-CD210511.u72	Good afternoon. I will not repeat many of the data that have been given about the multitude of problems that are accumulating in families and patients, which are giving us and have given us associations of family members and people affected by rare diseases, because what needs to be done precisely is the recognition of these associations, which are the ones that have been giving answers as far as possible to these problems, in social terms, in the search even for research, funding, etc. They are the ones who have been carrying all the weight and to whom much of this burden is being borne. That is why we are talking about this, largely because of the pressure we are receiving from all the political formations of these associations. And from these associations, from the cases and situations we know, we have gathered precisely how urgent it is to redouble efforts to be able to respond to these needs of social support, research, diagnosis and treatment. Because we are responding to a paradox: they are rare diseases, each disease affects a very limited number of people; however, it is not uncommon for someone in a family to suffer one of these diseases; that is the terrible paradox, the spread of the disease, the dispersion when seeking answers. In our autonomous community or in Navarre we have almost 10,000 registered people, many others are unregistered. The problems are accumulating and, as I say, I am not going to quote them one after another, but I do want to focus on a question that I believe has not yet been touched here, and it is a lesson that we have learned or that we have taken precisely from what has been the fight against COVID. We have found that international collaboration in research, vaccine delivery and negotiation with laboratories was essential to combat the pandemic, which has sometimes not been carried out as should have been done, but it has become very clear that when an international priority is given to an issue, when on one issue we agree different countries, different continents, it is possible to move forward and it is easier to find results. So why can't we do that with rare diseases? Progress would be enormous, not only for these diseases, but also for other fields of medicine, especially in genetics. Furthermore, we have to do something and that is something more than what is being said here, something more than moving forward in the model of European reference networks; we have to go further. So, the request I want to make to the government -? We want to emphasise it - it is that the government, at European and international level, is pushing for initiatives to strengthen strategies for research, diagnosis and treatment of rare diseases, and in the short term it must also facilitate access to orphan medicines at European level. For a good medicine to be useful it has to be available and affordable. That, with orphan drugs, is not happening, and is not happening by different factors. Firstly, there is a European coordination when it comes to designating an orphan medicine. The aid protocol and the marketing authorisation belong to and are in coordinated centralised procedures; however, the assessment of therapeutic power, price, reimbursement, payment and negotiation of these innovative products are issues that are in the hands of the Member States. In the case of evaluation of therapeutic power or negotiation with companies, each State negotiates separately, and that is what is producing a rise in prices and a lack of control. It is necessary - and I stress this request - that common European strategies be promoted, and I repeat the importance of public pharmacy. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-11-CD210511.u73	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mrs Gorospe Elezcano has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-11-CD210511.u74	Thank you, President. Good afternoon to you all again. Mr Navalpotro, you bring us an initiative which, as you have said, has been the subject of repeated debate in the Committee on Health. Today, the members of the Health Commission have had the opportunity to participate in an appearance by Feder, the federation that is working to support this lonely, tortuous path and that many times, probably feels that it is of absolute orphanhood. Possibly, all people, even trying to exercise empathy, will find it very difficult to understand what it is to live these kinds of diseases. Therefore, the same as this morning at Feder's appearance, on behalf of my group we transfer our support to the people affected, to their environments and to all the associations and federations that make so much effort to further improve the quality of life of the patients. In three minutes and forty seconds of which I have, if I had to highlight any of the axes of intervention, I would certainly highlight research, early diagnosis and inter-institutional and cross-sectoral coordination. As far as research is concerned, in the case of Euskadi there is a strategy of intelligent specialization, and one of the areas of specialization, where research, development and innovation are concerned, is that of bioscience and health. This strategy is working, from the professional level and also in collaboration with Feder, on various improvements in the field of development to make early diagnoses and also in the field of orphan medicines. The second axis is undoubtedly early diagnosis. This is achieved, at least, by two questions. First, with the registration of rare diseases. Mr Ruiz de Pinedo, who has spoken earlier, has given a figure and said that there are about 7,000 people in Euskadi and Navarra, and I was wondering my colleague Barandiaran about that data. These data are known thanks to the Rare Disease Registry that exists in the Autonomous Community of Euskadi, which makes this effort to obtain the data of all the cases of the people who are affected. There is a very important fact, and it is that there are almost 7,000 people and more than 700 pathologies. Let us give you an idea of how little incidence, how prevalent these cases are. It is therefore very important to have that record of people with these rare diseases. Secondly, it is very important to improve the information given to health centres, primary care and emergencies, because they do not have information on the various pathologies and it is absolutely necessary that they have it in order to be able to detect. They should also be provided with information on the CSURs, centres, services and units that have and serve from excellence and knowledge, because they combine all that knowledge in relation to each of them so that they can lead the people concerned well. Thirdly, we were talking about the global approach, from a vision of inter-institutional and cross-sectoral coordination and, of course, with a cross-border vocation, we insist on low prevalence. The important thing is that there are reference centres, high-quality units and services and that there is a map. This allows, for example, the European directive, the cross-border directive on health care. We are also talking about a cross-sectoral view, because people who have this type of disease, especially at an early age, but also in older people, have needs for a very broad sectoral range: social, socio-educational, and work. It is important to give them a comprehensive approach. The initiative is good and recurrent, and I think we can all support it, except in some areas relating to competition, in which we will see how we reach an agreement, but our vocation is to support the initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-11-CD210511.u75	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Eritja Ciuro has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-11-CD210511.u76	Thank you very much, President. Before we enter into this matter, and without wishing to open any conceptual debate, I would simply like to indicate that we would get the rating of rare diseases; in fact, a disease is not rare, in any case it would be more correct to talk about minority diseases or little-known diseases. I suppose that term is used by some conceptual agreement, and I just wanted to indicate it. In Catalonia we talk on many occasions about minority diseases, which is really the problem. In fact, they are diseases with a very low prevalence, less than 1 per 2000 inhabitants, but in fact there are a lot of people affected by some of them and, as has already been said here, there are more than 700 diseases that are difficult to diagnose. Therefore, it is a challenge. Seven per cent of the world's population - again - may be affected by a minority disease. Nearly 3 million people have been counted in the Spanish State. I repeat the data that have been provided and that I believe it is important to know. If we add to this difficulties both in the diagnostic process and in the treatment, as well as the level of chronicity in the vast majority, this makes it an important public health problem, with a high care complexity and, therefore, a whole challenge for what the health system would be. On the other hand, we welcome the fact that we can begin to address issues that are not limited only to the pandemic, but to other issues that have become relegated or postponed with the health crisis. Therefore, it is important to start raising health-related issues, which during this pandemic period have somehow been silenced. Obviously, the vulnerability situation of this group has been aggravated by the health crisis resulting from COVID-19. Precisely the pandemic has led to a fall in attention, due to its complexity in treatment and the need for regular treatment. That is why this treatment has been distorted during confinement. In many cases, it has led to even worsening of the health of those affected because they are unable to follow these treatments. As we have said, they are rare diseases, yes, but with a great impact on the people who suffer from them and, as has also been said, on their nearest environment. Precisely the costs of treatment are burdensome for many families, in addition to the socio-economic drama that has occurred to many families due to the new economic and social crisis. There is therefore a social component which I believe should also be taken into account at this time. Let us remember that informal caregivers are a key piece to protect the most vulnerable. That is why in Catalonia we have incorporated in our vaccination strategy the caregivers and caregivers of people affected by minority diseases. We saw it as one of the priorities. It is clear that, now that we are affected by a pandemic and a derived socio-economic crisis, it is essential that the different levels of vulnerability affecting this group, health and the socio-economic component surrounding the affected person be taken into account from the health system. I would not like to end without pointing out one aspect that is fundamental to our group: the ineffectiveness of a part of the current circuits of recognition of centres, services and reference units. The European Commission launched in 2016 the first call for access to the European Reference Networks on Minority and Complex Diseases. [[ERN]] The aim of ERNs is to pool efforts and share knowledge of the best specialists in Europe to cope with complex or rare medical conditions that require high-specialisation care and concentration of knowledge and resources. In order to be a member of an ERN, a number of requirements set out by the European Commission itself must be met, but the Ministry of Health and Consumer Affairs must also endorse the applications received to form part of these networks. This endorsement in the Spanish State is due to the designation of the CSUR, centres, services and reference units. This often implies that the CSUR, the applicant centre, must also be a knowledge area similar to the subject matter of the ERN. This is an important bottleneck, because there are many areas of experience that are not covered by the CSUR procedure and, therefore, many centres that meet the European criteria of quality and experience cannot access the NRCs, as there is no Spanish State body capable of subscribing to the endorsement. For this reason, centres of great relevance and excellence and international recognition remain outside these networks. It is an issue that we cannot leave out of place and, therefore, in any case, are proposals for in-depth reform that we believe should be included in the framework and development of new measures aimed at improving the care of those affected by minority diseases, a vulnerable group that, today, feels often helpless by the administrations and needs to see real progress, not just talk about it. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-11-CD210511.u77	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, I have the floor, Mrs Medel Pérez. [[The lady]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-11-CD210511.u78	Good afternoon, everyone and everyone. According to Feder, the Spanish Federation of Rare Diseases, in Spain there are 3 million people suffering from these diseases. They are difficult-to-diagnose pathologies for which there is often no treatment and involves multiple visits to doctors until you have a diagnosis, and then the calvary begins. In Unity We can always defend first training for professionals, in order to be able to detect or at least suspect in time the existence of the disease. It also helps to shorten the time for diagnosis the good coordination in the health system between primary care and the hospital. But the Cohesion Fund is vital, which was provided at the end of the health transfers, but which gradually decreased in quantity, until in 2016 the People's Party government provided it with zero euros. In the current budgets this figure is EUR 37 million. This budget will facilitate the attention of people with diagnostic or already diagnosed doubts, but who need to go to the CSURs, i.e. to the centres, services and reference units with some ease. There is another issue that is crucial, and it is the investigation of drugs for rare diseases. The pharmaceutical industry does not investigate drugs from which it obtains low profitability. As the neoliberal mantra that Mrs Merkel, Mr Macron and our right-wing woman so much likes says, there is no innovation without benefits. For this reason, governments fund the pharmaceutical industry to investigate medicines for rare diseases, assure them of the purchase of the products and then pay them extraordinary figures so that the benefit is also extraordinary. The pharmaceutical industry is enriched at the expense of patients with rare diseases without any contemplation. I will give you two examples of ultra expensive drug; they are two drugs for the disease called spinal muscle atrophy and they are effective drugs, eye!, patients need them: Without Race, 70,000 euros the dose; Zolgensma, the first gene therapy for neuromuscular disease, at double price. There is a large percentage of public investment in basic research and without it there would be no results for private capital, which does not invest in basic research. In addition, the industry is financed directly, indirectly through tax exemption and through advance purchases. Pharmacists are not at risk. The ownership of the patent, moreover, allows them to control production and distribution, in an absolutely lack of transparency process. We believe that patient associations are aware of the deorbited price of these medicines and are aware of how these companies get rich at their cost. These prices can put the governments of some countries against the ropes. Patients with rare diseases deserve to be treated within the public health system like anyone else. We must investigate these diseases and treat them if possible, and these associations should sue governments. The creation of a well-funded public pharmaceutical industry that investigates and produces medicines with real added value, that investigates treatments for rare diseases and whose sole objective is the public benefit and not the enrichment of pharmaceutical companies that hold us hostage, as they have shown with vaccines. The entire population, and especially patients with rare diseases, need a well-funded public pharmaceutical industry. It is already right to devote a large part of our gross domestic product to enriching the pharmaceutical industry when that GDP could actually benefit everyone's health. That is why I ask the members of these rare disease associations to join this request, because it is the only solution. We shall vote in favour of the Socialist Party's proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] Madam President, thank you very much, Mrs Medel. Does your parliamentary group accept any of the amendments tabled?
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-11-CD210511.u79	We're negotiating.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-11-CD210511.u80	All right. Thank you very much. When they have the text, they shall make it available to the Bureau. - OF THE VOX PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, ON AVOIDING PRICE CONTROL MEASURES OF THE ALTERNATIVE AND/OR EXPROPIATION OF UNEMPLOYED LIVING. [[File number 162/000607]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-11-CD210511.u81	We continue with the non-legislative proposal of the VOX Parliamentary Group on avoiding measures to control rent prices and penalization and/or expropriation of vacant housing. For the presentation of the initiative, Mrs Esteban Calonje has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-11-CD210511.u82	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, millions of Spaniards are concerned about the mere fact that they have a home on their own, and I am not surprised: control of rental prices, expropriation of housing to families for social rental, attack on property, penalisation of empty housing, protection against ocupation. No, it's not Communist Cuba or the former Soviet Union, not even the Venezuela of 'Explore!' by Hugo Chávez; it is Spain of 2021 and the implementation in Spain of the interventionist dream of Podemos embodied in the coalition agreement with Pedro Sánchez in a government that also in the matter of housing represents the worst possible government at the worst possible time. [[Applauds]] It is the same government which banned layoffs and which, however, caused Europe's greatest job destruction; which assumed a social shield and, however, caused the greatest collapse of disposable income, and wants to intervene housing. Ladies and gentlemen, Spain is not for games or for failed experiments. Ours is the developed economy that has collapsed the most in the world. The way is to solve Spain's structural problems, not to be chronicled. Access to housing is one of our major problems. Housing is not a good anymore, it covers a first need and is the seat of the first cell of society, the family. It is the preferred savings asset of the Spaniards - over 75% of the Spaniards opt for home ownership - and it is the investment of more than 5 million families who have in rent the way to supplement their income. In Spain, political parties with government responsibilities have for decades developed a short-sighted housing policy, unable to solve structural problems. According to the OECD, Spain ranks next to Greece at the head of the developed countries with the lowest affordability rate in housing. It is urgent to promote an ambitious housing plan and the solution does not go through price control or more interventionism; the solution goes through more legal certainty, regulatory stability and promotion of supply. [[Applauds]] And once again the tolls committed by Pedro Sánchez to remain in power constitute a threat and will cause an opposite effect to the desired one. The Banco de España explains this: artificial intervention of the price will result in a decrease of the investment and a contraction of the supply, the expulsion of houses from the rental market to the market of sale, a rapid reduction of the housing stock and its quality, submerged economy and higher final prices for less housing. If it's in the drawer! In housing policies, there are no magic solutions, declarations of good intentions are not enough, and there are still expropriations and attempts to intervene prices by decree. [[Applauds]] We must act urgently, but in the right direction. This is what the VOX Parliamentary Group proposes to this House with this non-legislative proposal, putting forward up to twenty-two concrete measures for the housing market aimed at expanding the supply of real estate, speeding up licensing and construction procedures, promoting the rehabilitation of the real estate park and the collaboration between the public administration and private entities to increase the park of officially protected housing, promoting the liberalization of land by municipalities and local entities, guaranteeing the autonomy of the will of the parties, encouraging the owners to put the houses for rent with incentives and an attractive legal framework and, above all, legal security and regulatory stability, and defending the private ownership of the attacks. Okupar is stealing, and a government that advocates okupation, as we have heard from members of this government, advocates theft and becomes the spearhead of property relativization. [[Applauds]] The Okupas are faced. For families who are in a precarious situation and who really need housing, it is the State that has to offer a solution, not at the expense of the property of other families. And the octopus mafias fight them. There's only one message for the mobs: kick in the ass in less than forty-eight hours and jail sentences. [[Applauds]] To this end, we propose an amendment to the Criminal Code that strengthens the penalties for the crime of usurpation, the criminalization of organized gangs, the amendment of the Criminal Procedure Act and the provision of greater means for the State Security Forces and Bodies to evict the Okupas. Ladies and gentlemen, the problem of housing is serious and what the Government is trying to do is further aggravating it. We are right, we can have the votes and, above all, we have the moral obligation. Let's move on to a reform agenda so that, finally, housing can be accessible and affordable in Spain and that Spanish homeowners can sleep peacefully. I conclude, Madam President, by addressing your ladies and gentlemen. [[Headed to the bench of the Socialist Parliamentary Group]] Knowing the lack of parliamentary decorum that they systematically show in their speeches and after the defamations heard yesterday in the Commission by the Socialist Members, it is foreseeable that they will try to embarrass this GNP, which is good for the Spaniards, with personal attacks on our spokesman, Ivan Espinosa de los Monteros. Well, I will not come down from this rostrum without saying, picking up the feeling of my parliamentary group: Spokesman, dear Ivan, it is an honor to fight alongside you. Thank you very much. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European ……]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-11-CD210511.u83	Thank you, Mrs. Esteban. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] As no amendments have been tabled to this initiative, we move on to position-setting. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, first of all, Mr Mazón Ramos.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-11-CD210511.u84	Thank you very much, Madam President. Any action taken in this matter has advantages and disadvantages; everything has its face and its cross. In this GNP there are interesting things and some correct measure, but their diagnosis remains only in what is the face. There is not a single word of the drama that means for thousands of citizens access to housing and of the sangria that means for many thousands more the payment of rents. All public administrations have, in theory, the same objectives. You can read as an example the plans of the City Council of Madrid. They're all unfulfilled targets. Reality is in sight, it's a complete failure. The Constitution entrusts the public authorities with preventing speculation. Article 47 provides for the right to housing. This is not a coincidence, as it is the only place in the text where this word appears. There is an obligation to intervene in the market when the market is unable to meet social needs. I have already had the opportunity to speak in this rostrum on the subject and I repeat it today. Expropriation is not a solution, it has a great social rejection and the word is frightening. The English call it compulsory purchasing - compulsory purchase - because they are thinner, but, put to expropriate, you have to say that it is better to buy because, if not, we will get more expensive, and surely there will be sellers. The key is how much money the government is willing to put in to resolve the matter. We must invest in the public housing park and, at the same time, rely on private investment to enhance the social role of the property. For this the most appropriate and logical thing is to encourage tax. There does play a good role the mobilization of empty housing providing legal certainty. Tax instruments do have to play a role in the amount of income in taxation and in the situation of tenants. There are many measures in place in this area and this is...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-11-CD210511.u85	Mr. Mazón, you have to finish. Your time's up.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-11-CD210511.u86	I'm on my way. ... But this great challenge that we have is not solved by proposals like yours.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-11-CD210511.u87	Thank you very much, Mr. Mazón. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Vehí Cantenys has the floor for the same parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-11-CD210511.u88	Thank you, President. PSOE has announced for days that it will not regulate rents. However, VOX does his job: Neoliberal cultural war they buy and PP is charged in votes; we also had to tell him. VOX says it opposes the regulation of rents because they want, literally, that the law of supply and demand allows the autonomy of the parties when fixing the rent. You know what that means? Well, the usual, let the rich win. In particular, it means that vulture funds, which are the ones that accumulate the most empty housing, can speculate without control. These are the Spanish homeowners you want to protect. They're also called Blackstone. It is not very Spanish the surname, but the truth is that it accumulates many empty floors. If not, why do rental prices keep going up, why were rental evictions in 2019 the main ones and why, according to yourself, are you opposed to the rental regulation measure, apart from the PSOE, Luis de Guindos and the Business Circle? I want to end a reflection, and that is the role you, ladies and gentlemen of VOX, and the role that the ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE are doing. Look, in Catalonia we've already passed a law regulating rents. Do you know how the PSC voted? Against. Gentlemen of the PSOE, if you legislate the same thing that the neoliberal right preaches, it is that you are being very cowardly with those above and very brave with those below. Otherwise, why did they stop the mini tax reform they had in their hands? Ladies and gentlemen of VOX, be honest with your voters. You don't defend the Spaniards, you defend the rich, because you're the Marquis party. Tell the truth! They defend the rich, wherever they come from, because their homeland is that of the capital, it is not Spain. And you are against migrants, women, the poor and, of course, Catalans. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-11-CD210511.u89	Thank you, Mrs. Vehi. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Matute García de Jalón has the floor for the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-11-CD210511.u90	Thank you very much, Madam President. Again we find ourselves with a seclusion, a new debate trap of the far right for, grabbing a sensitive question -?and I will not deny that it is -, taking only one of its aspects, not seeking responsibility and strengthening its own idea of society, which is an increasingly unequal society, where the state disappears and where power and private capital are omnipresent. That is the recipe they propose, because the only truth that has been moved here in this rostrum, without going into disqualifications, has been that this concerns millions of people. We're going to go to the data to better understand it. There are 26 million households in the Spanish State, 26 million households, according to the Ministry of Development. There are 3.4 million empty dwellings; I repeat, 3.4 million empty dwellings. In the same State there are 4,100 000 people living in severe exclusion; 1 500 000 households in severe exclusion in the same State where there are 3.4 million empty dwellings. But there's more. In that State, in the Spanish State, there are 800,000 households, 2.1 million people, living in what is called home insecurity. Insecurity in housing is the fear of losing housing, not by okupas, but by the banks or vulture funds that are going to take them away. These are data from Foessa's 2020 report. The previous ones on the number of empty dwellings are from the National Institute of Statistics of 2011, because those of 2021 have not yet published them. Maybe they're slow. These are official data and that is the dramatic photo, but it can be completed even more to understand what the problem of housing is. There's 40% youth unemployment. Most young people who are employed or still employed in these circumstances do so with wages below EUR 1000. The age of emancipation of young people has risen to 29.6 years and, in this thesis, what you propose is that the State should not intervene and that the public authorities should not intervene to regulate the price of rent. Moreover, they have the boldness to say even against the winds of history that the market will regulate itself. With this panorama of data that I have described, you dare to say that the market is regulated alone and does not generate injustice. And, as they believe in that, they say there's no need to do more. All this -?and they have remembered it - by political and ideological currents that fed the fact that social housing had to be given to the vulture funds, as in Blackstone in 2013, when many of his lordships were involved in that political project. But there's still more and more data. It is the same state in which there were 29,406 evictions in 2020, even with social shield, of the order of 162 evictions for each working day of last year. That's the real picture of the housing in the Spanish State. Are you worried about that? No, they're worried that the market can't be regulated alone. Who do you defend with your initiative? To all those vulnerable people I've pointed out? No, the owners. But when they tell the owners, it's basically the big forks. And what do you propose? Limit State intervention and limit rent or penalize unoccupied housing. They do not think about what happened to the requalification of land in previous decades to generate urbanistic balls, so that the film that of Bardem, Golden Eggs, was very easy to understand because it was being given throughout the national territory. None of that concerns them. They made money then and now what they raise are tax exemptions to keep making money now. And how do you want to sustain the things that make us free because they make us equal? How do they want to sustain education, health, housing, social protection or employment if it is not with public resources? Why do they want the state to exist then if it is not to make citizenship ever more free and equal? So that it is not only free to take a few reeds, but free to have a decent home, because we and we believe that housing is a right, not a good, and that is a fundamental difference with you, ladies and gentlemen. Because the rights you can buy with money are not rights, they are privileges, and that's what you don't seem to want to understand. And because their fear campaigns probably make sense for some time, the time they short-circuit that self-proclaimed middle class as it made sense as a middle class, while they've slowed down the social elevator and rushed them into a brakeless freighter. That is the sad reality in which you are living and probably serves you for a time to deceive someone else and you will continue to say that you care about people, but to you what concerns you is to generate an agenda of fear so that all those people to whom you have sold the myth of the middle class do not realize that there are only two classes and they are working class at dawn and the desires of the great elites and privileges. I'll finish with a question. I believe that there is much more truth in the walls than in many of your parliamentary initiatives, I would say, in all of them. Today I leave them a phrase of a wall that has more truth than all that they have said: Life is what happens while you worry about the okupas that will get into the floor that you do not have, because it does not belong to you and belongs to the bank, during the holidays that you will never be able to afford. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-11-CD210511.u91	Thank you, Mr. Matute. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Barandiaran Benito has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-11-CD210511.u92	Good afternoon, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen. The truth is that the reading of this proposal no law, rather than on the proposal side, shines out for its exposative part, which is nothing more than a clear exposition -?value the redundancy - of the programmatic declaration regarding certain social issues that the proposing group maintains. It is an unadulterated confession, on the one hand, of the ultra-liberal character and, on the other, of the asocial character of certain principles in the field of housing, which, in my view, reduce to insignificance article 1.1 of the Constitution which claims the social and democratic character of the State precisely by associating the democratic character with the social character and showing a characterization which I share, despite the fact that this Constitution is not entirely mine. Throughout many sections, this presentation covers a number of specific areas in which intervention is called for, but in some way I intend to go back to reflection -? which is not proper, but is that of an intervener of the Madrid Bar Association - which points out in its paragraph 59 that articles 33.1 and 47 of the Constitution cannot be constantly confronted when it is precisely a question of recognizing their necessary coexistence on the basis of the basic premise that the social function must correspond prima facie to the State and not to individuals. It is a round statement by the Bar Association and difficult to answer. But in this reflection that brings the non-law proposition forgets an important part and is that there is no -?that is the pretence of the non-law proposition - this kind of confrontation of article 33.1 of the Constitution with article 47, but also forgets certain issues, such as that article 33.2 speaks of the social function of property. But, look!, it is also very important to remember that both article 33.3 and article 47 itself recognize the need for the law to be the one that is consistent with these two principles, which are constitutional principles, which are equally protectable and equally defendable. That is, it is the law that will be able to concreteize the space of coexistence with legal nature, but also with social projection and, moreover, with a solidarity nature, which is what forgets the proposition not of law. Moreover, this delimiting function of the law is done not in a random form, but in a constructive form; inter alia, to recognize the guarantee that article 33.2 of article 33.3 recognizes the right to property. They forget in their intervention that it is precisely this co-honesting function of the law that will guarantee the principles and the norm, but also the possibility of coexistence of these social rights. It follows from this that the possibility of the realization of these principles in norms with a law rank will depend on the will that each Government and every political action can have, because the democratic essence of a system translates into measures that allow to differentiate solidarity, tolerance, empathy of coldness, the possibility of looking into the eyes or of avoiding them and looking elsewhere, the possibility of giving answers instead of giving doorways. And that is the need to translate the right to decent housing through a rule of law. In Euskadi we did so through a law, Law 3/2015 and, by the way, unanimously. Among other things, it envisages access to decent housing as a subjective right, the requirement for public authorities to take measures to ensure this right, the possibility of penalizing empty housing or collective effort through economic contributions, the commitment to the promotion of public housing and, in addition, only rental housing in Euskadi, and so many others. This is, in the end, a concretion of the principles of political action in norms with the rank of law that are going to pretend to co-honest both principles: that of the right to access to a decent housing with the right to property in terms and with the social function that the law predicts. Those just principles are those that we have intended to reflect in our actions and we have no other principles when it comes to guaranteeing the dignity of human life. This proposal is so far removed from these principles, it is so far removed from the democratic characterization of these principles through their recognition as a society, it is so far removed from certain ideologies that must be labeled as democratic precisely because they are associated with the social character of their activity -?and that, when they are not, they become anti-democratic - that in actions like this it will always correspond that our vote is negative. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-11-CD210511.u93	Thank you very much, Mr Barandiaran. Mr LópezBas Valero has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-11-CD210511.u94	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, we all know and assume that housing is a fundamental asset and that access to it is constitutionally guaranteed by the mandate given to the public authorities to promote the conditions necessary for citizens to enjoy decent and adequate housing under Article 47 of the Spanish Constitution. This article of all Spaniards also requires that this right to housing be allowed to take effect. The goal is, therefore, to do It is compatible the right to private property and the right to housing, but let us speak clearly to the Spaniards and stop making demagogies. The right to housing cannot be claimed as such before courts and tribunals, although it does commit us to the public authorities. To do what is necessary to combine the right to housing and the right to private property is the objective and work of a Government. At a time like the present one, we already have forecasts from the National Institute of Statistics that we will see an increase in new households in the next fifteen years of up to 6%. This means more than a million new households; however, the population in Spain is expected to increase by just 1.8 per cent in the next 15 years. This means an increase of some 845,000 more people in that period. This imbalance between the increase in population and the increase in households is due to the fact that the current model is changing in Spain, reducing in the coming years the households of three, four or five people and increasing those of one or two people. Thus, in 2035 more than six out of ten Spanish households are expected to have only one or two members. Ladies and gentlemen, 2035. It will seem very far away to those who only think about an electoral horizon, but we have around the corner a change of model and no recipe to address it. If they looked more closely at the data, they would know that they are telling us that the price pressure is going to lead to an increase in prices in rental values and also in the purchase of property. In a word, what's going to come up is going to be the mortgage. In this scenario, in fifteen years, we have an economic sector as important in Spain as that of the construction that has receded after the explosion of the real estate bubble to numbers of the nineties, both in new housing and in rehabilitated housing. On the other hand, we have a government that has committed itself to mistreating and demonizing the real estate sector despite the evident increased demand for housing that is expected. And the question is, what has that sector done to you? Why are you working on criminalizing you if there is more to offer? I will provide you with some data to disassemble that the price control of Podemos is better than the greatest offer we offer the liberals. I give you data for the period from September 2020 to February 2021, after the entry into force of the rule in Catalonia that limits the prices of housing rental. In Barcelona the number of rented apartments fell by 10.2%; in Madrid, however, the number of rented apartments rose by 1.7%. In Barcelona prices fell by 3% during this period; in Madrid prices fell by 3.4%. These facts, ladies and gentlemen, are the information that a government must work with to avoid a problem that we already have today and that will be even more serious in the future. In the Citizens' Group we are clear that the alternative is not to limit rental prices by intervening in the market with rules that punish but do not favor, because a law that has already been announced by the government as restrictive and that does not allow free pacts between the parties to a contract will - as has happened elsewhere with similar experiences that we already know and that we also know that they have failed - restrict the market, to withdraw housing from the real estate market. Moreover, such a rule will only make it difficult for all persons as tenants to rent housing, especially for families with less economic capacity. The solution, therefore, is not a housing law that has already been the umpteenth spectacle of the internal confrontation between the two parties that make up the Government. I do not know whether it was in an attack of sincerity, but even Mr Ábalos expressly acknowledged that what could be done was to encourage rather than penalize. To penalize, this is the word used by Minister Ábalos himself. I do not know whether it will continue to be as forceful after the campaign in Madrid, copying Podemos in millimetre, but it gives us a clear indication of how much the Government has on this subject, even if it tells us something else. The Government will find us in encouraging, encouraging and enabling a greater supply of rental housing, helping tenants taxily, regulating positively, allowing public-private collaboration so that the social rental market can obtain housing from the free market through a transfer so that these tenants can, with less disposable income, have access to social rentals. They will not find us with populist measures that imply something that is fundamental to us: neither the restriction of rights between the parties nor the kick in the door that legitimizes a crime such as the usurpation of a property as the only housing policy. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-11-CD210511.u95	Thank you very much, Mr López-Bas. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, first of all, Mr Baldoví Roda.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-11-CD210511.u96	Thank you very much, Madam President. 53% of young people between the ages of 25 and 29 still live in their parents' homes; 25% of those between the ages of 30 and 34, and of those who have emancipated, part live on shared floors, at 33, 34, 35. Causes: low wages and housing prices. In Madrid, more than half of the salary is allocated for the rental of housing, 56%, and you have the face to say in your GNP: The reality is that free competition alone is responsible for regulating dysfunctions in the different economic sectors. And there's so much panchos left. Please explain to young people who still live at their parents' homes because they cannot be emancipated from free competition, or to early-morning Spain, which has to devote 56% of its salary to paying a rent. Let's get to the practical, two things: you have to invest in Mrs. Díaz Ayuso in a few days, demand from PP important things instead of that nonsense that you usually ask of them. I suggest two: first, a multi-year plan, starting with the next budget, to build affordable public housing for rent. And for now, for now, for tomorrow, force Mrs. Helped to recover the 3,000 social flats sold to vulture funds at a lower price than the market. Come on, you're the brave righty. Why don't they have ovaries? Why don't they have them? Why won't they? And they'll continue with their charades. Well, that's it!
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-11-CD210511.u97	Thank you, Mr. Baldoví. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the same parliamentary group, Mr Bel Accensi has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-11-CD210511.u98	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, if you start reading the non-legislative proposal put forward by your parliamentary group, you may have the impression that you want to deal with an important problem, a parliamentary debate with some seriousness, but once you hear your spokesman from this rostrum, you already find that things are not going there. You simply want to confront, confront the gentlemen of the government, confront some of the other spokesmen as extremist as you do from another area and therefore you have to analyse your proposal in accordance with these perspectives. Look, I don't agree that the rental price is regulated; it's a mistake, honestly it's a mistake. It is a mistake because it does not generate more supply, because it does not solve the problem in the medium and short term - that has been demonstrated in different places - and because, after all, it is a recognition by the public administration itself of its non-function and externalizes a solution in the private sphere. They can't raise rents thinking they're going to solve the housing problem, that's not the case. The problem of housing is solved with investment, with public investment, with the promotion of public investment, and we have all been responsible in some area for the fact that the public housing stock that currently exists in the Spanish state as a whole and also, obviously, in Catalonia, is absolutely insufficient. Look, one of the differences between you and some other parliamentary group -?For example, Citizens, the People's Party - is that I do not agree that the rental of housing is regulated and that the rental of housing is limited, and in Catalonia a law was passed in September last year -?Lei 11/2020- by which this was proceeded. I want to convince the Catalan Members, the Catalan legislators, that this is a bad initiative. What you want is for the Parliament of Catalonia not to be able to legislate on this aspect and, in fact, you do not take into account that Article 137 of the Statute of Catalonia, which I know you do not like, establishes exclusive competence on the part of the Generalitat in the field of housing and also in the field of the promotion of public housing, which, although you do not affect, introduces it tangentially into your proposal. We are therefore going to vote against this initiative. I'm sure they had no doubt about it. In any case, this is a debate that will have to be faced by each of the legislative chambers in the field of their competences and must be tackled in the short term, but above all in the medium and long term. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-11-CD210511.u99	Thank you very much, Mr. Bel. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Vallugera Balañà has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-11-CD210511.u100	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, deputies and deputies. Today the far-right party of this House brings a proposal with its ten-page housing recipe. I summarize it in two points because it is easy to explain: one, to make rent prices as much as the tenant wants, because this of the autonomy of the will when a will is subject to an economic problem, hear, does not exist, just like the free market more or less. And two, lower taxes on real estate developers, owners of flats, houses, farms, offices, industrial ships. The question is, who benefits from higher rental prices? To those who pay rent and rent not to the tenants? Who benefits from this imbalance? Moreover, what are the interests of these proposals that you are presenting to us? I wanted to remind the rest of the House of something very obvious: extreme right-wing parties act against the interests of wage earners, civil servants, self-employed people, pensioners, workers and ordinary people as a whole. Not only are they racists, sexists, homophobes or transfugos, we all know this, but we must always remember that they are also classists and work every day so that ordinary people who have their interests cannot carry them forward. They simply work for those who have life resolved at birth, by family, by tradition, by homeland. But in front of the extreme right, and this is what interests me most today, and your speech of fear -? because it is curious, in the end the speech is: listen, you are going to steal your apartment, or the government or the Okupas, but be afraid because you are going to run out of housing - I think there is a political responsibility on the left that you, gentlemen of the government, are refusing. This so-called left-wing Government has not acted as such. Socialist Party, you are in Moncloa to implement a government program. This programme and the investment agreement included the regulation of the rental price and have not done so. They are failing to fulfil their commitments one after another and avoiding making leftist policies that are necessary and urgent for the rights of the majority and that are the reason - remember - for which they voted. The reactionary proposals gain strength every time the left doubts, every time the left does not act, every time the left complexed or tactical goes towards the center or in this case almost to the center right. If Minister Ábalos at the time had arranged for the promise of regulation of rents to be fulfilled, today we would not be discussing this or the position of VOX -?whatever could have brought it - would be purely anecdotal, because everything else would have been clear, we would have explained it and we would have expressed ourselves with all the reasons that lead us to do so. But those of us who are engaged in politics do so to provide solutions, not for rhetoric and communication, and it seems that this Government is only dedicated to that. When you hide, when you reject the debates, when you don't take effective action in key areas, what is happening with the housing happens: a window of opportunity opens for the extreme right to pick up their lies and inoculate fear in all areas of people's everyday life, and where we must make a front. Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, you have had many opportunities to understand that you are staying short in wealth redistribution policies; short in policies that impact directly on living conditions no longer the most disadvantaged but the normal people. They are going to sink; they are going to sink and they are seeing themselves and they are going to leave this State in the hands of the right and the right because they do not comply with the investment pacts and because of their cowardice in implementing their own policies. And I'll tell you, what a shame! Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-11-CD210511.u101	Thank you, Mrs. Vallugera. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Garrido Gutiérrez has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-11-CD210511.u102	Thank you, President. I will try to explain my group's position in this proposal with two or three very clear ideas that will go to the bottom of the matter, to the bottom of what is to be raised. The first idea is that housing is a basic good and that is why access to its enjoyment is protected by a right. It is a more essential good, if any, as we have seen at this time of such an exceptional pandemic. Therefore, if we think that housing, as you have said, is a good of first necessity, housing cannot be, cannot be considered another commodity, cannot be a financial asset, because thinking that housing is a good of first necessity has certain consequences. We cannot think and enjoy both ideas at once. Second idea, we need to do a little memory and know where we're coming from and also where we're going. In Spain more than a decade ago we suffered a housing emergency and here, now, it is time to remember what you, the right-wings, do not want to remember: the real estate and financial crisis of 2008. Right-wingers always forget that there was a crisis and they also forget the origin of that crisis, but I will remember it here. The origin was the explosion of a real estate bubble resulting from an obscene process of speculation produced by right-wing policies, liberalizing policies and policies of lack of public control that you bring back here. That has to be remembered over and over again. The consequences were very serious: a lot of people suffered. They won a few: the promoters, the builders and the banks, who filled their pockets with money, but caused much suffering to the families, who saw their dreams broken and who ended up on the street without being able to enjoy that house. This is the free market, this is the game of supply and demand, it's the law of the jungle actually, it's the law of the strongest. That's what you bring here. Fortunately, and for some time now, United We can and right now also the coalition government is changing its course and is doing other kinds of policies that lead us to make a journey in favor of and in defense of the right to housing. Much work remains to be done, yes; there is that state housing law, which will have to collect legal instruments and measures to deal with this last phase of this speculative process, linked in this case to the rent of the hand of the vulture funds, of the investment funds, of phenomena such as tourism. In short, we need a law that for the first time places all the real estate capital of this country at the service of the general interest, at the service of the fulfilment of a right, which is the right to housing. Therefore, third idea, there are only two paradigms, two ways to deal with residential problems. One, the one who brings back here again the right, which has to do with a basic idea of understanding access to housing and housing as a commodity, again trusting blind people in market freedom. We already know the consequences of these policies: the suffering and the unprotection of the social majority. You also know, of course - and that is why you defend it - that it is a machine of making pasta, of making money for the great promoters, for the great corporations, for the economic elites. But we are on the side of the other paradigm, of the one who understands housing, I repeat, as a good of first necessity, as a right and therefore defends the social function of housing. Housing is to live, to implement vital projects, so that families can build their homes. Therefore, we must choose between these two paradigms. You, gentlemen, are clear: you are on the side of defending the interests of the economic elites, of market freedom, which is to be on the side of the strongest. We, Unitas Podemos, are on the side of defending access to housing as a right, of defending the general interest and of defending the Constitution, because its article 47 is the one that really protects that right to housing and directly prohibits speculation about this good. We shall therefore vote against your proposal. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-11-CD210511.u103	Thank you very much, Mrs. Garrido. (Pause.-) A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mrs Zurita Exposito has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-11-CD210511.u104	Thank you, President. Very good afternoon. Ladies and gentlemen, we are going to vote in favour of this non-VOX proposal, but not precisely for the measures it contains, because they could be those or others that go in the sense of giving legal certainty, of extending supply, of balancing supply and demand, of fiscally encouraging housing, because they are similar to those which the People's Group has already brought to this House and which you, the left-wing parties who support the Government, have rejected. Why has the Socialist Party rejected them when that's what they're selling around? The reason is always the same: on the one hand, the debt they have with their partners and, on the other, because all this will be protected, they say, in their future housing law, which, ladies and gentlemen, takes too long to fire. They're going to pass the rice, they're going to burn. Where is that housing law, Mrs. Garrido? What are you going to propose in that housing law? A housing law that goes through the press but no one knows when it will come to this House. Meanwhile, all the political groups represented here bring something every week and we will continue. The subject is complex and serious and deserves study and attention. That is why I have to say that we find it an absolute lack of rigour when the parties supporting the Government are trying to reduce the housing problem in our country to change the LAU banally, as the Government did in 2019, to control rental prices or to a housing law whose main function is to control private property. Ladies and gentlemen who support the Government, a precious time has been wasted in discussing, among the partners, the way or measures to solve the housing problem in Spain, but also with a short debate, an obsolete debate that neither the facts of reality nor the real situation of the country support. In one year you have deployed an absolutely interventionist policy, officializing the occupation and intervening in private property, and we are concerned that you are working on a fixed photo without a serious debate on concrete data and that no talk is being made of alternative measures and that we do not take into account, for example, that the rent price has fallen by 8% in Spain and that the debate is focused on whether rent prices are controlled or not. Do you really believe that the problem of housing is solved like this? Do you really believe that the objective of dealing with the first housing law in the history of democracy should be whether there is government control or not of rents? For that has been the program of Podemos and the Socialist Party for three years, since 2018, when they joined the government. You have not seen the social and economic landscape that has varied in Spain, do not analyze how you have varied rental prices. The truth is that you do not think that, in the face of a changing landscape such as the crisis caused by COVID, new factors have been introduced that need to be analysed. They do not see the legal uncertainty created by the disparate action of the autonomous communities in the hands of the judges. They feel comfortable in chaos, like the one they have now created by standing idly by at the end of the state of alarm. In the house, the same. It's chaos and legal insecurity. They have implemented aid programmes that have not worked. What they should have done after the emergency response is lay the groundwork for change by analysing and responding to the situation in Spain that generates price fluctuations. Press releases of fiscal reforms by the PSOE are constantly published and the next day we can deny them. Well, what a mess! This is a schoolyard. While people wait, think that housing is one of the most important decisions a family makes in its life, that construction also marks the economic rates of a country and the energy efficiency of housing is transcendental to the sustainability of our environment. And what does the government do? Well, play house, ladies and gentlemen, play house, zero solutions. Nothing more and thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-11-CD210511.u105	Thank you, Mrs. Zurita. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Arribas Maroto has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-11-CD210511.u106	Thank you, President. For socialists housing is much more than a wish. It is a constitutional right, it is the goal of any person for their vital development. Housing is a necessity, it is the first step we all take in order to promote our life project, as it can be to form a family, regardless of the type it is. Housing is also a guarantee for all people to integrate into society, and I can say that I am very proud to belong to a party that has placed the right to housing at the centre of all its policies, and has done so with the most important budget item in history, €68 billion. [[Applauds]] And you know how much that is, ladies and gentlemen? One hundred and twenty times more than the People's Party invested. Ladies and gentlemen of VOX, you want to evict those who have serious difficulties in having a roof under which to sleep or raise their children; you want to evict unaccompanied minors; you want to evict women victims of sexist violence; you want to evict LGBTI groups, and I have no doubt, ladies and gentlemen, that if you could evict all political groups that we do not think like you, from this Chamber. [[Applauds]] The Socialist Group cannot support his initiative and I will explain the reasons. Because it would take us to Spain of the urban balls, to Spain with the biggest cases of corruption, always with the unmistakable seal of the People's Party, to the one that gave the houses to the vulture funds and that left young people, families, self-employed people and small entrepreneurs without hope; that policy that sank many Spaniards and left thousands of families on the street. He therefore confirmed that the Socialists will not follow this path, because we want and defend a very different Spain, a Spain of rights and not a Spain of privileges, a better Spain for all and for all. Ladies and gentlemen, with this initiative you show that your intention is not to protect Spain or to protect families, you have come to sell the country to the highest bidder and the Socialists we are clear that when it is governed we must govern for everyone, for those who voted for us and for those who did not, and that is why we will give legal certainty to tenants and tenants. We will continue to protect families, because there is no greater freedom than that given by the welfare state and public services. We will defend the small owners, the families, the small business, the young people who want to emancipate themselves and our older ones who are the ones who have brought us here, with their effort and desire to see a better future, those older ones that you use in your electoral campaigns to generate hatred against immigrant minors, but who later you do not defend when vulture funds threaten and extort to take them out of their homes. [[Applauds]] The Socialist Parliamentary Group is not going to allow this initiative to go ahead, and we are not doing it by political dispute, no, believe me no, we are doing it by responsibility, because we think of people rather than real estate speculation, because we are a constitutionalist party that is not going to attack and unprotect the majority of citizens of our country. I'm on my way, President. Ladies and gentlemen of VOX, you are shouting 'live Spain!', but the Spaniards what they need and want is a Spain in which they live. Thank you, President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-11-CD210511.u107	Thank you very much, Mr. Arribas. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-11-CD210511.u108	We then proceed to discuss the motion resulting from an urgent inquiry by the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group on the dismantling and closure of the Royal Bardens firing range. For the author group of the initiative and for the defence of the motion, Mrs Pozueta Fernández has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-11-CD210511.u109	Get out of the way. Good afternoon, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, fifteen days ago I began my speech to the Minister of Defence, Margarita Robles, with real information from a neighbour of Corella, who said to me: "Noise of war in our peoples." [[his intervention in Basque continues]] Military maneuvers were being carried out in the military polygon of the Bardenas, military maneuvers that the neighbors and neighbors of the environment - Tudela, Arguedas, Valtierra, Caparroso, Ablitas and peoples of Aragon, like Aegean - have been enduring, hunting flying over their heads, even if denied by the minister -?I myself saw it this Friday -, dangerous military material that threatens their health and fear for if another accident occurs again as the more than thirty occurred. I invite you to listen and collect the countless complaints from those who live in the vicinity of the shooting range, both in Navarre and in Aragon, their complaints about the risks and discomforts that the range creates for them. An initiative has even emerged in Corella, an accountant who records the day and time when these flights take place, because in this environment there are conjoining populations and consumers. [[The Lord]] The dismantling of the military polygon of the Bardenas is a topic of permanent topicality in Navarre, although some are committed to saying that it is a typical theme of the left or that it is somewhat trembling. This is an issue that goes beyond the parties. As I explained to the minister fifteen days ago, the political peril of the closure of the Bardenas is the story of decades of lies, of unfulfilled promises, of false statements that the shipwrecks and shipwrecks have been listening to for years; lies on the part of governments and many parties. Both UPN and PSN-PSOE have repeatedly broken their promises to dismantle the firing range. Politicians and institutions have been changing their views and views, as politically or economically appropriate, from clear opposition to unbridled support, always on the basis of their political interests, never on the basis of the interests of shipwrecks and shipwrecks. Since 1951, when the Franco dictatorship decided to install in the Bardenas an air range, which today is the only one of the Spanish state and the largest in Europe, Navarra has been by imposition a training camp for many of the unjust wars in which NATO forces have participated. Navarra has been and is NATO's training camp. This is our raw reality. I would like to focus today on an issue that is at the heart of the problem of the shooting range: the money that the municipalities, the valleys, even the monks of the area and their dependence on them. In 2001, the Bardens and Defence Board agreed to an annual lease payment. Then the army agreed to pay year by year, until 2008, 3.6 million euros to the board. In 2008, during the government of Zapatero, they signed the renewal of the agreement until 2019: pay 7 million annually and from 2019 double the amount of rent to 14 million, in addition to allowing the renovation; 14 million euros for enduring the polygon, that is, the covert blackmail that assumes that these municipalities are doomed to depend on the money received for enduring the shooting polygon in exchange for being able to develop public policies for their citizenship. Either you assume that planes fly over your town to test the war weaponry or you run out of a hard time for your municipal policies. What do you think? Acceptable? We cannot and therefore cannot understand the closure of the firing range without a clear bet on the economic conversion of the area, without a bet on rebuilding an economic fabric around the Bardenas Natural Park, taking advantage of its environmental, tourist and recreational appeal; an economic alternative to the Bardenas environment that must come from the hand of Parliament or the Government of Navarre so that the inhabitants of these enclaves can aspire to something more than to depend on war. And yes, we are committed to working also in Nafarroa from the Parliament and also from the municipalities of the Bardenas environment so that a viable and strong economic project can offer economic alternatives to the citizenry to leave behind the binding of the firing range, but for this to be possible the Natural Park of the Bardenas Reales must be respected, because this is another of the great contradictions of this conflict. A natural park declared biosphere reserve by Unesco is used as a practice of shooting and ammunition testing. Does anyone think this is compatible? They agree with me that having a military facility in Bardenas is a landicap, something incompatible with the aim of developing a natural park. According to the Government, the impact of the ecosystem, fauna and especially birds is not only nil, but they even live better surrounded by actual shooting practices, aircraft noise and the possible use of radioactive substances. Apparently, we have a shooting polygon echo, the first in the world, and where is it? In Navarre. Amazing, just as amazing that the Ministry of Defence shows a total ignorance of the existence of discontent among the population with the firing range; it does not know. In Navarre there are protest movements against the Bardenas firing range for more than twenty-five years; twenty-five years demanding a solution that never arrives. Don't you think it's time to come up with a solution? That is what we are bringing here today, a just and democratic solution, a referendum for us to be the shipwrecks and shipwrecks who can decide the future of the firing range; a citizen consultation to listen, ask and respect the majority will of Navarra society and the citizens who suffer the shooting range, especially the future of the shooting range. Listening, asking and respecting; it is difficult to understand that these principles are not shared as a democratic method of resolving them.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-11-CD210511.u110	Your Honor, you must finish, please. Your time's up.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-11-CD210511.u111	This is the challenge and the solution that we are putting to them today, and we hope that they will support them on this path. Mila esker.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-11-CD210511.u112	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] As no amendments have been tabled to this initiative, we move on to position-setting. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr García Adanero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-11-CD210511.u113	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. To clarify something and to put the question, it must be said that the polygon occupies just over 2,000 hectares of the more than 40,000 of the Royal Bardens. It must also be said that it was before a shooting site that reserves lip and/or which nature park. Therefore, when it was made it was knowing that there was a firing range there. But they also explain things and give the feeling that it is an imposition of the Ministry of Defence and, of course, that it is not an imposition, it is an agreement, an agreement that has been signed by those who have competence for it, which is the Bardenas Council, which make up nineteen municipalities, which in turn have a democratic, political composition that they exercise and that have been elected by the neighbours of these conjoining peoples, in addition to the Roncal Valley, the Salazar Valley and, as I said, the Cistercian monastery of the Oliva. As everyone will understand, this is a matter of a few hundred years ago. And it must be said that they have signed that agreement because they understand that it is good for their interests and because they have competence for it. It is therefore an agreement, not an imposition; it is not an imposition on those peoples, but an agreement to which their elected legitimate representatives arrive, democratically. So, what's the matter? The question is, of course, another one. The polygon matters to you insofar as it is a military polygon used by the military; that is where the problem lies. The problem is not the polygon, the problem is the military, because the military, in accordance with article 8 of the Constitution, inter alia, guarantees the territorial integrity of Spain and compliance with the Constitution. That's against what you are and have always been, and that's why even in the pandemic, when you were military doing your job -?as in all places in Spain - in Pamplona, in Navarre, you also came out against, because the goal is the army, not the firing range. Obviously, the firing range is used by the military and the military, as I said to you, also guarantees the compliance with the Constitution and the territorial integrity against which you are against. That is always, of course, the famous concept of freedom. Do you remember yesterday when Mr. Otegi said freedom wasn't to drink a few beers on a terrace? Well, look, when the Jiménez Becerril marriage came back from drinking some beers on a terrace, they were killed because Otegi's friends decided that they were already worth being free and that their right to drink the beers had already run out. [[Applauds]] And now, as I don't know who has a debt to whom I don't know who, it turns out that those who killed those who had just had a few beers, and many others, will be able to take - yes, on those terraces in the Basque Country - a few beers at liberty, because that freedom is being guaranteed by the Constitution. Therefore, fewer classes of freedom and less classes of democracy. The army is a Spanish institution that we feel as our own, like most of this House, and has to train somewhere. If it is with the majority will of the citizens of that area, who see it as convenient and come to an agreement with them, it seems phenomenal to us. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-11-CD210511.u114	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Agirretxea Urresti has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-11-CD210511.u115	Thank you, Mr. President. I believe that the situation is exposed both in the inquiry and in the motion put by Mrs Pozueta. The Royal Bardenas are a protected space declared natural reserve of the biosphere by Unesco in the year 2000; a space of spectacular beauty and natural and landscape richness that is contradictory -?and we have always defended and understood it - while incompatible with the existence of a shooting field, with a field of military maneuvers of such magnitude. And it's incompatible mainly for three reasons. The first is because it endangers the safety of the inhabitants of the area. There has been more than one accident, that is clear; more than one, two, three and five. The second, because it is a constant nuisance for the inhabitants of the area that, in turn, damages the natural space. A noise of planes and missiles, I think nice is not for anyone. And the third, because it goes against a policy of demilitarized natural spaces. Obviously, Mr García Adanero, the problem is military. Man, you don't have to give too much to think that a firing range is a military space and the problem is precisely the military, because I don't know any shooting range that isn't military, at least at least obviously. Therefore, the problem is generated by the military polygon, no doubt. Focusing already on the subject, I will say that we have always defended the dismantling of this polygon for the reasons set out above and it is the most suitable of the alternatives: dismantling. We have requested it as a Basque Nationalist Party in the various institutions and bodies and also as members of the Geroa Bai coalition. Right here, the representative of this coalition, Uxue Barkos, has done so more than once by means of non-legislative proposals; by interpellation to Minister Chacón, in May 2008, or by means of a parliamentary question, among others. And also in the Navarra institutions we have called for this dismantling, as well as we have criticized and rejected the maneuvers with real fire for the danger they pose and for the pernicious results for biodiversity in a natural space. Therefore, our position is clear: we defend dismantling. [[The lady]] It is true that in the petitum of this proposal Bildu does not propose dismantling, it proposes a consultation that, whatever the result, since it is not binding, leaves it to the Ministry of Defence to decide whether or not to leave. It is a way of legitimizing the ministry's right to remain or not. We agree with the consultation, but we believe that the debate is open as to whether that consultation or those consulted, the subject of decision, should be all of Navarra - as the Bildu coalition calls for - or should be the so-called conjoining peoples. We believe that this debate is not easy or simple because we must bear in mind that it is they, the so-called conjoining peoples, who suffer directly from the consequences of this field of fire. It is also true that there are populations such as Ribaforada, for example, that without being distressing suffer the consequences of this military polygon and in return they do not receive anything. But also, as has been said, these peoples receive economic compensation in return, that is true. The money that is received from the ministry, and is distributed equally by the community of Bardenas Reales to all the municipalities that are distressing, for some municipalities like Tudela do not mean much, but it does mean much to small peoples who have seen how important their budgets have been for so many years, which have been increased. As such, economic compensation can never be a greedy carrot that replaces, on the one hand, insecurity and risk and, on the other, popular will. Our position has always been to study other options that allow the economic development of the Bardenas and of the congozant peoples, such as the promotion of their tourism and natural potential, but never a planning of the possible economic and tourist uses that can be given to the Bardenas with benefits for all these peoples. If these peoples who benefit economically from the existence of the polygon were given an alternative to viable economic development of the polygons, they might also be able to comply with dismantling. The corporal. We understand that an economic alternative is viable, necessary and must be a substitute for a dependency that limits...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-11-CD210511.u116	It has to end.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-11-CD210511.u117	... or incapacitate the decision of rejection or support for this Barden shooting range. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-11-CD210511.u118	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Gutiérrez Vivas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-11-CD210511.u119	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen of Bildu, I do not know why you are asking for a referendum if your honor has already spoken here for all the shipwrecks and has expressed the opinion of all the shipwrecks and all the shipwrecks; you have said this with these words here. I don't know what this will have to do with the independence that always allows all independenceists to speak for a people, either for an autonomous community, or for a region, or for a nation and always in the name of the whole. I don't see that in any of the games. Here we do not speak for all Spaniards any of the parties that we do not feel independent, the truth. I just didn't understand this obsession you have to talk about for everyone. Look at you, in 2008, twenty-one of the twenty-two oppressors of the Royal Barden Community supported the agreement signed with the State. Only one municipality, Peralta, with 5800 inhabitants, opposed. The lease agreement in force dates from 2008 and lasts for 20 years. For the first ten years the state paid €7 million per year, which was distributed among all municipalities, and since 2019 it pays twice as much as €14 million. The total disbursement that costs the Spanish State for the municipalities is 210 million euros, which is not a smaller amount. The more than EUR 500 000 per year for each of the conjoining municipalities is a huge source of revenue for these municipalities. This is not the case with Tudela, probably the largest convulsant, which accounts for only 1% of its annual budget, but in smaller municipalities revenue accounts for more than 10% of its budget. For example, in Buñuel 14.2 %, in Villafranca 10.8 or in Caparroso 11.1 % of its budget. And thanks to these revenues, these municipalities can make investments that are not within the reach of municipalities or equivalent regions in other parts of Spain of the same size and number of inhabitants, and not only of Spain, nor of Navarre in similar municipalities. I will give you some examples of the investments that are planned, that the municipalities have planned, thanks to that money, precisely in the community: a tourism plan of 13 million euros, for example, that includes the design and creation of two reception centers, information and interpretation, that of the monastery of Carcastillo and that of the Heras, that will merge 2,700,000 euros; infrastructures to support the information and communication technologies to the service of supply and demand of the tourist activity, a project called Smart Bardenas, worth 1,627 750 euros; an energy efficiency plan of 12,5 million euros; an educational project of the Royal Bardenas of 2,5 million euros. Look, you'd already like many municipalities of those sizes elsewhere to have those amounts to develop those projects. And this has been approved by the municipalities, which is indeed the true will of the people and the expression of the will of the people. You gentlemen of Bildu, in all these municipalities, what do you have, a councilman? Or two of them? [[Mr. Matute García de Jalón makes negative gestures]] They just don't have any more. No, they don't have much more. Well, you'll have three councillors. Well, that's fine, three councillors. Look, you can't talk on behalf of a whole people because you have two councillors in the whole community, that's what you want. Thus, there is an economic advantage for neighbouring municipalities. Is there degradation of the natural park? There doesn't seem to be degradation of the natural park. I think the opposite is true. Otherwise, I doubt the park would have been given the definition of biosphere reserve. I believe that there is agricultural exploitation, which is also compatible with the flora and fauna of the place. So, what leads you to present this kind of initiative? Well, I'm going to tell you because knowing you, the answer is very simple. What leads you to present this initiative is your hatred for what Spain means, your hatred for everything that Spanish means, and there is nothing more representative of Spain than the Spanish Armed Forces. And this is what happens to you. Whether it is a shooting range leased to the Ministry of Defence, whether it is the presence of the State Security Forces and Bodies, or they are parties as Citizens, which openly defends a constitutional change to end the fourth transitional provision in our Spanish Constitution. That's what you're trying to do. And, gentlemen of the Socialist Party, these are their partners; these are their partners in Navarre and these are their partners in the Government of Spain. You'll know who you want to play with those rooms. We do not consider that there is sufficient reason to put forward any referendum on this issue. There is a great social consensus in the population directly affected; although it weighs you, here there are no interests in conflict, and the only general interest and society itself in the Ribera Navarra is in that direction, not in which you defend. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-11-CD210511.u120	Thank you very much. Pause. A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum). Thank you very much. Mr Uriarte Torrealday has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-11-CD210511.u121	Dear President, dear colleagues, today we are again discussing a subject similar to the one we discussed a few weeks ago when we were talking about the La Remota estate in Cantabria, and the problem arose as to what was the best destination of a farm and its connection with the Ministry of Defence. Again we raise a similar problem, within differences. Just as we met that time to make politics useful and we knew how to make politics useful, because we were able to reach an agreement in which to negotiate an exit that sought a solution to the problem that was approved by this House without any opposition - and that is a useful policy and is to solve problems - unfortunately, today we are not going to make politics useful and we are gathered here, basically, to reaffirm ourselves in our convictions, to make our differences public and to harm each other without seeking any reasonable solution to the problem. [[The lady]] The Royal Bardenas is an area that has a rather sad history, among which we can include the death of the militant environmentalist and antimilitarist Gladys del Estal - goian bego -, the location of the lifeless body of the president the Commonwealth of the Royal Bardenas or even the shooting of a civilian person who was walking near but outside the firing range. This sad story is linked to a reality that so far has not been addressed in its true terms, not as an element of confrontation, but to look for the best location for the Air Force firing range. And what would be the best location? We think that the best location would not be in the center of a natural park and a reserve of the UNESCO biosphere and we believe that it would not be so close to such important population centers. Therefore, we believe that, instead of being throwing the stuff at our heads today, we would have to be analyzing, evaluating the requirements regarding the best place to locate that polygon, thinking about the conditions for moving in the least onerous way for the affected population and seeking solutions to this problem. Unfortunately, we are not in that position; unfortunately, we have to confine ourselves to exposing our position knowing that today there is not going to be a solution to a problem. What's our position? The one we've always maintained. Is that an original position? No, it is the same position that many Navarra municipalities have maintained that have clearly expressed themselves on this issue; it is the same decision that has been taken and expressed by the Parliament of Navarra; it is the same position that the Spanish Senate has expressed. I mean, we're not original, we're saying the same thing we've said, that the best location for a shooting range of this nature is not the center of a natural park and a biosphere reserve at a short distance from very important population centers. This seems obvious, but unfortunately, there are those who do not see it this way, and there are also parties that defended it in their day as we defended it, as it was the Socialist Party of Navarre or as it was the Union of the Navarro People, which are parties that opposed the firing range of the Royal Bardens and have changed their position. I think we would do citizens a great favour if we were today assessing what they were committed to at the time. In the Defence Commission, in 2017, the Socialist Party said that a study had been carried out on alternative sites, on meteorological, geological and geographical requirements to find the right place, the most convenient place, but unfortunately, that study has not been made public and we have not been aware of it. Today we would have to be assessing where it should be moved instead of being trashed. Unfortunately, we're on to something else instead of solving problems. At the moment, Euskal Herria Bildu presents a GNP in which - let us say - a popular consultation is being held in the area of Navarre. Partners from other groups, such as the PNV Group, suggested that it might have to be in another space. This is one of the issues that can be raised, that of the element of popular participation in a decision, but it is that what is being presented today is not solving a problem or has been brought here to solve it, and it is not going to solve it. Simply, the element of participation does not nullify all the problems involved here. The best destination or training needs of the Air Force, which does not arise here, is involved. The problem of the fate of this polygon, the 14 million per year paid by the Ministry of Defence for the use of these lands, is involved. There is a contract that is in effect until 2028. There are a number of problems that need to be addressed together and globally and that we should be addressing here, looking for the best destination, looking for real solutions, seeking to make policy useful, and not doing, unfortunately, what we are doing. We reaffirm ourselves in our position...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-11-CD210511.u122	Thank you very much, Mr. Uriarte.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-11-CD210511.u123	... that has been the position, let's say, most of the institutions, and that even some parties have defended it that have then changed their minds. But it would be nice if we found out that...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-11-CD210511.u124	Mr. Uriarte, I'm sorry, but you have to finish. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-11-CD210511.u125	Okay, president, thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-11-CD210511.u126	For the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Mestre Barea has the floor. [[Prolonged applause.-Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-11-CD210511.u127	Good afternoon, Members of Parliament. Peace and love. Yes, Mrs. Pozueta, seeing you rise to this rostrum, firing your anti-militarist discourse against the Royal Bardens' polygon, has brought to my mind the memory of the anti-militarist and anti-globalist movements of the late 1960s. I imagine it on the green meadows of Barkley, with a huge hibiscus flower in his ear and a great medallion of the symbol of peace hanging from his chest. A certainly vintage image. Because it says a member of the government, to which you guide and support, that you are full of ticks of the past and that you have to abandon them; you have to overcome them. You pose a citizenship based on the land; on ethnic identity; in the single language; the us of you, the separatists, is always the no to the other. And it marks a return to the traditional Hispanic caciquism that sabotaged the liberal and social promises of Spanish democracy in the late 19th and early 20th centuries. Her speech, Mrs. Isabel, full of 'identitarian' fanaticism and toxic anti-Spanishism, really smells like naphthaline. [[Applauds]] It tells us that shipwrecks and shipwrecks are for the values of peace and coexistence. It is a pleasure to meet you, because we too are in favour of peace and coexistence. No one wants war, much less the Armed Forces. That is precisely why our Armed Forces work in Spain and in the world for peace, exporting peace and security to areas devastated by ethnic or political conflicts, because they are the first defenders of peace, but also at risk of their own lives. [[Applauds]] Nearly two hundred men and women of our Armed Forces have died in recent years defending peace. Very young people, generous enough to put their lives at risk to fight for peace in Spain and the world. They gave as much as they had: their life for peace. And speaking of peace, you should analyze the enormous democratic weakness, the huge contradiction that generates you belonging to the inherited world of ETA that has not condemned terror and that does not want to know anything about the responsibilities that must lie with the perpetrators of 856 murders, hundreds of wounded and extortioned, and thousands of people who had to leave their land in order to live. [[applause]] Is that the peace you seek? That's the peace of the cemeteries! His memory, that of all those who died for true peace, for construction and for Spain - there were many - is a permanent and repayable debt for all of us. We'll never let that page pass. Let us now speak of democratic representativeness. You speak of the majority will of Navarra society. I believe, Mrs Isabel, that you have no right to be proud, as has been said here, of the representativeness of Navarra's citizenship. In the 19 municipalities that make up the Junta de Bardenas, you are represented by only one councilman! The 2008 Agreement was put to the vote by the Bardenas Board and a total agreement was reached, with only one abstention among the 22 entities. Let us now look at the activities that the Air Force carries out at the Bardens Polygon. I begin by saying that relations between the Royal Bardenas community and the Air Force are excellent. The aerial exercises carried out at the Bardenas Shooting Polygon are absolutely necessary for the formation of a modern air force and contribute significantly to the training of air crews. Exercises of all kinds are carried out: in addition to aircraft training, transport units, paratrooper launch, deployment support, etc. are trained. They are also targeted at humanitarian missions such as air rescue drills or determined training and explosive deactivation. And, along with the polygon, the Ablitas Military Aerodrome located there also serves as a base for fire-extinguishing activities, phytosanitary campaigns, pest prevention and other activities promoted by the Navarra Foral Community and other neighbours. Like I said...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-11-CD210511.u128	Mr. Master, your time is up. It has to end, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-11-CD210511.u129	I'm on my way. As I told you, Mrs. Isabel, your speech smells like carpet balls. [[Applause from the Members of the VOX Group]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-11-CD210511.u130	Thank you very much, Master. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Gutiérrez Díaz de Otazu has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-11-CD210511.u131	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Good afternoon, Mrs Pozueta, as the Minister rightly put to you, on 21 April when she presented the question that gives rise to this motion, you have a rather misguided concept - when not subjected to major prejudices, I understand that motivated by your ideological orientation - of what is security, defence, the Armed Forces and NATO, and already, by the way, of what is war and peace. To begin with, I will tell you that without security it is not possible to carry out any human activity, since without it we would all be waiting to provide our own protection, more than anything to continue to enjoy some expectation, however little it may be, of maintaining our lives and carrying out the additional activity that is desired. The defence policy in Spain aims to protect the whole of Spanish society, the values enshrined in its Constitution and its institutions, the social and democratic rule of law, the full exercise of rights, freedoms and the guarantee, independence and territorial integrity of Spain. The Armed Forces are the essential element of defence. They constitute a unique entity that is conceived as an integral whole of the forms of action of its different components: the Earth Army, the Navy and the Air Army. In the preamble to the NATO Treaty of Constitution - which you mentioned: the organization that makes war, the criminal organization - those who signed it affirm their faith in the purposes and principles of the Charter of the United Nations and their desire to live in peace with all peoples and governments. They also express their determination to safeguard the freedom, common heritage and civilization of their peoples, based on the principles of democracy, individual freedoms and the rule of law. No war or aggression, as you can see; peace, security, protection, principles of democracy, individual freedoms and the rule of law. As far as the NATO entry referendum and the referendum you are proposing for the eventual dismantling of the Royal Bardenas firing range is concerned, there is a paradox: in the referendum for NATO entry, which was convened by all Spaniards, given the nature of what was voted on, 56.85 % voted yes and 43.15 % voted no. In your peculiar concept of democracy, this is not for you because it is only for when what you want comes out. So they want to replace a referendum in which all the Spaniards voted for a referendum in which they vote a few to impose on us all what those few decide. We're talking about national defense, which is what the Royal Bardenas firing range contributes to. It does not work that way, Mrs Pozueta; it works the other way around: the majorities choose and the minorities assume what the majorities have decided. As far as the shooting range is concerned, it is located within the area called Bardenas Reales and occupies twenty-two square kilometres of an area of four hundred, i.e. 5%; it does not seem to be an oversized area, even more so if the important service it provides for the training of our pilots is taken into account. The nations of our environment have Armed Forces like ours, which are trained like ours, to ensure the security of their societies and to participate in the maintenance of peace and security in the world; just people who guarantee that security to us, the Armed Forces among others, we provide the necessary means to do so effectively and with guarantees of security, ours and theirs. They must be trained in the use of their weapons systems, and it is up to us all to provide them with the means to do so safely. Since 1705, when King Philip V granted the card of use to the convulsants of the community of Bardenas, until today more than three centuries, there have been many military exercises, with the use of force sometimes, for the launch of what you call packages, which is the launching of loads, and for military practices in general; sometimes with the use of force, but, as I say, force subject to the rule of law. Only once has violence been used in the firing range: it was on 16 December 1983, when a soldier, an ETA terrorist, infiltrated the Air Force put 40 kilos of rubber-2 in the fixed shooting range facilities, causing significant damage to their infrastructure and three wounded, one lieutenant and two soldiers. It is the only case in which there has been violence in the firing range, which is a violence led by ETA. We give a reminder of recognition and admiration to all the victims of ETA, whether from the Armed Forces, the State Security Forces and Corpses or civilians of any condition, and from here we give them our recognition. [[Applauds]] Mrs Pozueta, do yourself a favor: they assume that we are living in a modern and civilized society, which guarantees its own security and contributes to ensuring that of the rest of the world. Make your contribution so that this can be done...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-11-CD210511.u132	Mr. Gutierrez, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-11-CD210511.u133	... with the greatest guarantees of success and safety for professionals. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-11-CD210511.u134	Thank you very much, Mr Gutiérrez. For the Socialist Group, Mr Cerdán León has the floor. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-11-CD210511.u135	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, before we begin, I would like to ask Mr Uriarte to withdraw the words he said about the former President of Bardenas, Mr Isla, whose death has nothing to do with the firing range, out of respect for him and his family. [[Applauds]] Mrs Pozueta, you are presenting this motion on the grounds that it is a matter of permanent topicality in Navarre and I would say that it is rather a recurring issue and not a matter of permanent topicality. It recurs because its group, when June approaches, presents this type of initiative because in June there is a massive anti-polygon march, that march to which 140 people came last year and to the most successful march, 300 people. Those are the massive marches you allude to. You like to talk about all the shipwrecks and shipwrecks, the interests of all the shipwrecks and shipwrecks as if you were your defenders, but I would appreciate it if you would not take advantage of that license. The Community of Bardenas Reales is a natural park and biosphere reserve, and at the same time it is a local entity composed of two twenty-two Congozante Entities. There are nineteen municipalities that surround Bardenas, two valleys of the Pyrenees, Roncaly Salazar, and as you have said, Monastery of the Oliva. The property of Bardenas Reales belonged to the State and the congozants had the right to use and enjoy by concession of Philip V by the Royal Cedula of 14 April 1705. But the reality today is that since October 10, 2008, by order of the Ministry of Economy and Finance, with a socialist Spanish government, the community of Bardenas is recognized full ownership, a historical demand, Mrs Pozueta, which is achieved by dialogue and consensus. As a result of this agreement, on 22 December 2008, the last agreement was formalized with the Ministry of Defence and the Bardenas Reales community for the lease of land for the firing range, which is scheduled until the end of 2028. This agreement was put to the vote by the Bardenas Board and only one of the twenty-two entities abstained, as Peralta said, with no votes against. I'm sure if it depended on your vote, I would have voted in favour. The agreement makes available 2222 hectares of almost 40 000 hectares, i.e. just over 5 % of its extension. Since then, an annual income of €7 million has been received until 2019 and by 2020, up to 2028, it is €14 million. To this, you, Mrs. Pozueta, call it the purchase of wills, thus disrespecting all the shipwrecks and shipwrecks belonging to the community of Bardenas Reales. Do you know what it is? This is, quite simply, an agreement. Ladies and gentlemen of EH Bildu, you show a deep ignorance of the area and a lack of respect for the agreements. They say that the Government of Navarre and the Government of Spain offer alternatives to the people, an economic recovery plan in the area, they say, so that it does not depend exclusively on the money received for maintaining the firing range. The truth is that this statement is surprising. You know that I, like you, am a Navarro and that I also belong to one of the snarling villages of Bardenas, Miracle, which I invite you to know to see and realize the barbarity that you say with that statement. Perhaps this lack of knowledge is also due to the fact that of the more than 88,000 inhabitants who have the dismaying villages, of the nineteen municipalities that surround Bardenas, your party, EH Bildu, has 1 of the 211 councillors who distribute; only 1, Mr. Gutierrez, no. 3, but you don't have any, huh? [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] That's probably why. When talking about economic alternatives in the area, I will mention a very important one not only for the peoples of Bardenas but for the whole of the Bank of Navarre and, therefore, for the whole of Navarre: the Navarra Canal, to which you oppose, although it is fundamental for the economic development of the area. I urge you to make a motion and I hope that I will support you. Entering Bardenas, the Community of Bardenas, with the money received by the firing range, it distributes 50% of that 14 million into the twenty-two congozantes, using it for investments and improvements in the municipalities, and the other 50% manages it directly to the Royal Bardenas Board. That Money is invested, among other things, in solar parks to have revenues for the day that is not the shooting range, and is invested, as in 2020, in more than forty tourist projects. Thanks to this money, an economy is developing around tourism that previously did not exist and is investing in the flora and fauna of Bardenas. Mrs Pozueta, as you rightly say, we have the right to decide that the gentlemen of EH Bildu are so fond of you. I ask him: Who decides? All the shipwrecks and shipwrecks? Those who, as you say, suffer from the polygon? By the way, I've been living there for 50 years and I haven't heard any missile noise, Mr Agirretxea, none. You do not make clear in the motion who has to decide, but we could also bring in the neighbours of Aragon or La Rioja, who, according to you, suffer it. Mrs Pozueta, the citizens who, according to you, suffer, that is, those belonging to Bardenas, demonstrate by their vote every four years their will and...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-11-CD210511.u136	It has to end.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-11-CD210511.u137	... It is very clear that we have agreed this agreement with the Ministry of Defence. There is no better referendum or consultation than that. As I've reminded you before, you only have one Councillor of 211. The PSOE will vote against. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-11-CD210511.u138	Thank you very much, Mr Cerdán. We vote in five minutes. As always, you must occupy the seats indicated by your name and if you have applied for the telematic vote you cannot cast the vote in person. [[Pause]] DEBATE OF TOTAL PROPOSALS FOR REFORM OF AUTONOMY STATUS : [[VOTING]] - OF THE PARLIAMENT OF THE RIOJA, REFORMING ORGANICAL LAW 3/1982 OF 9 JUNE, OF THE STATUS OF AUTONOMY OF THE RIOJA [[CORRESPONDENT NUMBER 127/000004/0000 OF THE XIII LEGISLATION]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-11-CD210511.u139	Ladies and gentlemen, take your seats. We voted, first of all, on the proposal of the Rioja Parliament to reform Organic Law 3/1982 of 9 June on the Statute of La Rioja Autonomy. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: present, 106 plus 232 votes cast telematically, 338; in favour, 104 plus 158 votes cast telematically, 262; against, 52 votes cast telematically; abstentions, 2 plus 22 votes cast telematically, 24.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-11-CD210511.u140	It's approved.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-11-CD210511.u141	We proceed to vote on the proposal for a law of the General Council of the Principality of Asturias on the Universalization of the Right to Public Health Assistance. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: present, 105 plus 234 votes cast telematically, 339; in favour, 1 plus 41 votes cast telematically, 42; against, 104 plus 155 votes cast telematically, 259; abstentions, 38 votes cast telematically.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-11-CD210511.u142	It's rejected. Good night. The meeting was suspended. It was eight and thirty minutes of the night. http://www.congreso.es Calle Floridablanca, s/n. 28071 Madrid
