ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. The meeting was resumed. We continue with the questions addressed to the Government in accordance with the order sent by the Government. Questions to the President of the Government. Question by Mr Pablo Casado Blanco, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u2	Mr Sánchez, yesterday the European Parliament withdrew the immunity of Puigdemont with the votes against his partners in Podemos, his government, those who call him exiled, insulting Spanish democracy. Only then should his vice president cease today and he should also break up with Bildu, instead of taking the apisonadora out of the propaganda the same day they approach the murderer of our colleague Goyo Ordóñez. [[applause]] All this hypocrisy coincides with the 8-M, the symbol of their lies. He hid the pandemic while putting thousands of women at risk. Calvo said that they were going to live on it, and so it was: according to Fedea, 62% of infections would have been avoided if they had taken action on 7 March, would have been avoided until the contagion of their Minister of Health. After 100,000 dead and 3 million sick, the health drama gives way to the social drama. Can you tell me what you think of the unemployment figures in Spain? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u3	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u4	Thank you very much, President. Mr Casado, humanity has faced the greatest calamity, the greatest pandemic in the last hundred years, and what we have done has been the same as the rest of the world's economies: we have had to close our economic activities precisely to curb the curve of contagion, save lives and defend the public health of all compatriots. [[rumors]] That, logically, in a country as dependent on the tourism sector as it is ours, has caused the fall in economic activity to be two-digit and has caused jobs and also businesses to be destroyed. But, Mr Casado, thanks to the measures introduced by Europe and Spain, this fall has not been 25% of the gross domestic product and 3 million jobs have not been destroyed; what has happened, Your Honor, is that economic activity has fallen in 2020, but we have kept the unemployment rate at 15.5 %, that is, thanks to the ERTE, thanks to the ICOs, thanks to all the economic activities that have been subject to these aid policies - and also thanks to aid such as that which we are going to adopt this Friday in an extraordinary Council of Ministers - we are putting up with the productive fabric, business and employment in our country. This is what we have done: ERTE, ICONO and Recovery Fund; by the way, you are voting against your governance in the Congress of Deputies and you are also pandering to it. [[Rumors]] Your Honor, what you'd have to ask is what you're doing. You, Your Honor, what you've done Wednesday after Wednesday has been to get up, to do here a perrata of improvisations and exabrupts, sometimes mixed with insults. [[rumors]] Your Honor, that's what you do Wednesday after Wednesday, but you neither support any of the measures, nor propose any pact, nor propose any agreement. You have voted against the state of alarm, voted against all the real decree-laws passed for and for the benefit of companies and workers in our country, voted against budgets that are necessary for our country's economic recovery and even cast doubt on the vaccination process in Spain. That's what you're doing, Mr. Married. I told you at the beginning of the session the same thing I say to you now: you have two paths, the path of moderation or the path of destruction. You have to stop being the aperitif of the strong dish that comes next, in every control session, Your Honor. [[Applauds]] Therefore, Your Honor, what you have to do is a useful opposition, an opposition with a sense of state; you have to tie your shoulder, you have to be useful, Your Honor. The hand is still stretched out, Mr. Casado. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u5	Mr. Married.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u6	Mr. Sanchez, a little humility and respect. In Spain there are 6 million people who want to work and cannot - one out of every four in working age - there are 4 million unemployed, 900 000 in ERTE, 300,000 self-employed without activity, 300,000 unemployed job seekers, 300,000 inactive unregistered, 40% of young people are unemployed, half a million women have lost their jobs, 2 million households are in the queue of hunger and one million households have all their members unemployed. Are these your green shoots? Is this the strongest way out? And no, not everything is the fault of the virus because by January 2020 there was already more unemployment and more child poverty than when you came to the Presidency of the Government. And no, it's not the same everywhere, because according to the OECD - which it said again yesterday - the crisis is rife with the most incompetent governments, like its own. [[Applauds]] Look, a blow of EUR 130 billion of GDP is not fixed with 11 billion that they do not even agree to approve; not even the European funds, those that strive to spread to the finger, making a decree with VOX and concealing the report of the Council of State and the IGAE. Yesterday he did just a year since I offered him an economic shock pact. You rejected it, just as you rejected the independent agency to manage the European funds, so the responsibility is yours alone. And I tell you one thing, Spain is going to ruin and its government is all it does is fight each other. The only vaccine that always works against the unemployment virus is competitiveness, flexibility and reformism, but, as we have seen, a People's Party government will have to be re-administered once again. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEVELOPED SANTIAGO ABASCAL CONDE, OF THE VOX PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT: WHAT DOES THE SPANISH PRACTICES? [[File number 180/00443]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u7	Question by Mr Santiago Abascal Conde, Member of the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u8	Mr. Sanchez, we already knew that you like appetizers, but that the strong dishes are choked on you. What we want is for you to tell us today, Mr Sánchez, what your policy of pacts has brought to the Spaniards. Have you brought peace and security to the elderly in the residences? No, no, Have you provided enough vaccine supplies for the Spanish? No, no, Did you bring in a job? Neither. Have you brought in an independent judiciary? Of course not. Have you provided public broadcasting free of sectarianism and propaganda? Neither, Mr. Sanchez. Freedom and peaceful and peaceful elections in Catalonia? Neither. Safe borders and a legal and orderly immigration? Neither. We are going to tell you what your policy of pacts has brought to the Spaniards: 100,000 dead; in that you have put us at the head of the world, as in the world's biggest economic collapse, according to the OECD. Also a state of alarm that has been a hidden state of emergency, a state of perpetual alarm with the complicity and silence of the Constitutional Court. Insecure streets; we are seeing how a Spanish region is now on the verge of social explosion and economic collapse. Approaching and releasing prisoners; that has also contributed, but tomorrow the photo will be taken with the victims. And distribution of judges as if they were chrome, because you don't want independent judges, you want defense attorneys in case you are ever judged by your misdeeds. And you know what else you've brought, sir? Ruin. It has brought death and social division. For you, power and ego, and for your partners, time and legitimacy to attack the monarchy, to attack the constitutional order, to attack democracy and national unity. And you also know what you've brought? You have brought very serious sanitary cords and insults to this House, such as those you have perpetrated against this group and those you have not yet withdrawn from. But we have a pact with more and more Spaniards and more and more Spaniards who will throw you away as soon as you return the word and vote you have obtained with lies. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u9	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u10	Thank you very much, Madam President. I thought you were asking, Mr. Abascal, but you are asking and answering yourself. What I will tell you is that if you look at what has been the greatest success of Spanish democracy, I think we can all agree that the Spanish Constitution has been, and the Spanish Constitution is the fruit of a pact. If there were no Constitution, the principles of the National Movement will govern; I don't know if that's a bit what you propose. We, of course, are a government that wants pacts, that understands democracy as an electoral competition, in a first stage, but, secondly, as a pact, agreement, consensus. In any case, I believe that what has to be done in this democracy is that those agreements, those consensuses, those pacts - which you always question - are in the interests of the general interest and respect democratic legality, and that is what the Government is doing, Your Honor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u11	Mr. Abascal.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u12	No, Mr. Sánchez, the government is destroying coexistence. Aren't you going to recant from the most serious insults you've perpetrated against VOX? He said this very week that for VOX women are an object of sexual enjoyment. You insult me if you want, but who are you really insulting with this? All these deputies? My mother? Our mothers? Our wives? Our daughters? Our grandmothers? Who are you insulting? [[Applauds]] That's why we have a pact with more and more Spaniards, and more and more Spaniards, whom you are constantly insulting by saying that you are... [[Ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Group, some Members of the European Parliament speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u13	Thank you very much, Mr. Abascal. Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u14	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Abascal, I was talking about the far right. If you guys are alluding to each other, what am I going to do to him? [[Applauds.-Protests]] In any case, you have come here many times and claimed that this is the worst government in the last eighty years of Spanish history. It has therefore claimed the governments under the Franco regime. I will tell you what a society with covenants and a society without covenants means. A society without pacts is what existed before constitutional Spain. I will read to you, for example, what Title VIII of the Principles of the Movement said. He said: the participation of the Spaniards takes place through the family, the municipality and the single Franco trade union. That is, neither parties nor free trade unions nor elections or pacts of nothing at all. I will tell you what Article 6 of the Spanish Constitution says, Your Honor. It says that 'political parties express political pluralism, contribute to the formation and manifestation of popular will and are a fundamental instrument for political participation'. That is, political participation, understood at least as understood by most Democrats in this country, is first competition and then pact. You, Your Honor, claim other governments outside of constitutional Spain, governments fortunately already passed in our country. But I'll tell you one thing: you're probably betting on a big, single, free Spain, which wasn't free, because it clearly wasn't free; it wasn't great either, because we lived in isolation, and it wasn't one, because it was based precisely on the persecution of the difference, on the extermination of the difference. This is the difference between you and us. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u15	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEPUTY SERGIO SAYAS LOPEZ, OF THE JOINT PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT: WHAT IS YOUR GOVERNMENT GOING TO DO TO IMPULATE THE CREATION OF EMPLOYMENT IN SPAIN, AND SPECIALLY IN NAVARRA? [[File number 180/00434]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u16	Question by Mr Sergio Sayas López, Member of the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u17	Mr President, what does your Government intend to do to create employment?
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u18	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u19	Thank you very much, Madam President. I believe that the road map of the Spanish Government is very clear. First, to vaccinate, to vaccinate and to vaccinate. I believe that the best economic policy we can do to improve economic recovery and the rates of economic activity in our country is vaccination, and that is what the Spanish Government is doing. Secondly, to approve aid so that this last Rubicón who has to pass through the productive fabric, businesses and jobs in our country, it is possible to pass it in a much more material way. Thirdly, to launch all the recovery funds, which is ultimately a hopeful project, an exciting project of conversion and modernization of our economy. I think that is positive both for Navarra, whom you represent here as your group's spokesperson, and for the country as a whole. And I hope, ladies and gentlemen, that you, instead of being opposed to everything, will also lend a hand, hold your shoulder and, consequently, think of the general interest and not precisely to remain aligned with the People's Party and with the far right in our country. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u20	Mr. Sayas.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u21	Mr President, the biggest brake on job creation is a government with communists supported by Bildu, and that is what we have in Spain as a whole and particularly in Navarre: 4 million Spaniards are unemployed, one million more in ERTE and 130,000 companies are at the door of a creditor contest. Navarra has gone from being the first employment community to being the fourth, and in the last month it has been the community in which unemployment in all of Spain has increased the most. Clearly, governments with extremists and populists, with radicals and supported by the Batasuns are not the best lever to create employment. Last week you presented the first Part, the first strategic project to be financed with European funds: the electric car. I would like you to make a commitment to Navarra and its automotive industry today and to support the Navarra automotive industry in the field of electric cars. I would also like you to make a commitment to the agri-food sector, which is key in the present and future of our community, with a boost to the Navarra Canal. Both sectors are priority for Navarra. Mr Sánchez, the Spaniards are concerned because they have no jobs and fear that the ERTE will become a gateway to the ERE. Six million Spaniards can't work and need public help to live, and that's while you're tearing businesses apart, putting sticks on your wheels and taxing yourself. That is the golden paradise of a carpet communist like Mr. Iglesias, but it is the worst possible scenario for a country that wants to make progress. Stop looking at me in the mirror and look at the faces of the Spaniards who have lost their jobs. Generate trust, because only from trust can you create employment. And to create confidence, the first thing you have to do is to throw Podemos out of the government and seek agreements between moderation; to help companies, which are the ones that create jobs; to understand that European funds are vital for Spain's growth; to stop being friendly, political, chiringuitos, to put in front of an independent and competent authority and not to play Monopoly with the future of the Spaniards, and finally, to tell the truth. We have a government that does not lie, that has made lies its natural habitat, and so it is very difficult to generate confidence, Mr President. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u22	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u23	Thank you, President. Man, moderate, moderate you, with the things you say, Your Honor, and calling half the seats of this Congress illegitimate precisely because they do not commune with your ideas... [[applause]] It seems to me that moderation and democracy at best have to be seen by you, even a little bit. [[Rumors]] In any case, I will say to you, Your Honor, that this government has done what it has done, with its mistakes and its successes - of course it has - to bet within the European Union on a centralised purchase of vaccines, to contribute money to the pharmaceutical companies so that they can speed up their processes and we have the vaccination already under way in our country at the beginning of the year. I say to you that the aim of the government and also the European Union is that 70% of the Spanish and European population at the end of the summer will be vaccinated and that we can therefore consider this pandemic to be overtaken. This is an element that I imagine will give you hope and illusion, because you will also be defending the general interest in our country. Secondly, we have put in place a battery of measures - the ICOs, the ERTEs - in addition to the aid to companies that we are going to approve in the Council of Ministers that we are going to hold next Friday, which I believe have no match in the democratic history of our country. Recognize, at least, that we have saved a lot of businesses, that we have saved a lot of lives as a result of the confinements we have had to make and the state of alarm that, by the way, you did not support. In short, Your Honor, I believe that we are doing what all the countries of Europe are doing, and it is precisely vaccination and focusing on recovery. In that sense, Your Honor, I can assure you that, of course, we are committed to the future of the automotive sector in Navarre, Catalonia and others... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u24	Thank you very much, Mr President. - OF THE DEVELOPED GAMARRA RUIZ-CLAVIJO DESIGN OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, which FORMULATES THE VICE-President OF THE AND MINISTER OF THE PRESIDENCY, RELATIONS WITH THE COURTS AND DEMOCRATIC MEMORY: WHAT RULES DO THE GOVERNMENT TAKE IN HIS MANAGEMENT OF THE COVID'S PANDEMY IN JANUARY AND FEBRUARY 2020 WHEN HAVE TRANSCRIMINATED A YEAR OF THE CONFINITION DECLARATION? [[File number 180/00438]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u25	Questions to the First Vice-President of the Government and Minister for the Presidency, Relations with the Courts and Democratic Memory. Question by Mrs Concepción Gamarra Ruiz-Clavijo of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u26	Thank you, President. Madam Vice-President, on 5 February 2020, President Sánchez entrusted you with an important task, which was to coordinate the response of the Government of Spain to COVID-19. However, you have never held accountable or assumed any responsibility for this work. He received warnings from the WHO and the European Union informing him of the severity of the pandemic. What did you do? I'd appreciate it if you could explain it to the Spaniards, because no one knows. What we all know is that 100,000 people have died this past year, 3165 000 have become infected and 130,000 of them are health care workers. When almost a year has passed since the declaration of confinement, what mistakes does the Government make in the initial management of the pandemic? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u27	Madam First Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u28	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Gamarra, you have decided from the first moment on this matter to go white or black, however, when you have to live something as unknown and as devastating as it is a pandemic, we should work, at least you, with nuances. That question that you ask me about the mistakes that we have been able to make has been answered here a long time ago by the President, in the rostrum, and by former Minister Illa, constantly. We have been working on the technical, scientific and health data that we have been given and we have gone ahead with the formal statement made by the World Health Organization on the pandemic. [[Rumors]] But since you have decided that this was a political battle and not anything else, today I will give you good news: at the moment we have more people vaccinated than infected. Are you happy? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u29	Mrs. Gamarra.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u30	Madam Vice-President, I am happy with every vaccination and I will be more happy if you do that 70% vaccination you have promised this summer in this country. [[Applauds]] Madam Vice-President, you haven't learned anything in the past year; at least you would have to be recognizing mistakes and you don't. A humbly response would have lived up to the greatest health and economic catastrophe this country has experienced since the Civil War. But no, they are obstinate in their arrogance. By the way, you have here today the opportunity to correct your colleague Iceta, who kept saying yesterday that last year's 8-M was a correct one; you know it was a mistake, because 62% of the contagions could have been avoided. [[Protests]] They not only lack humility, but also commitment: they promise a lot, but they do nothing. By the way, where are the findings of that independent audit of the management of COVID promised five months ago? Where are the legislative reforms to address the pandemic? Where are the measures adopted by the Reconstruction Commission? And by the way, ladies and gentlemen, where is the Conference of Presidents that had to be held yesterday; that Conference of Presidents that had to review the state of alarm because that was what Mr Sánchez committed himself to, because that was how he voted in this House and because that, ladies and gentlemen, is what the BOE says, is bound to do? [[shows a document]] What the Spaniards do not deserve is a Government that has made non-accountability, lies and inefficiency its management model. Where is that unique and diligent vaccination plan that this country needs? Look, you've decided to hide, but this party is going to keep demanding an independent audit of your management, because we need to know... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u31	Thank you very much, Mrs. Gamarra. Madam First Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u32	Mrs. Gamarra, I was telling you before that it would be convenient for us to be in the nuances. You more than one question - and you do it almost every Wednesday -, you come here and give me a rally, and I listen to you. But I will not allow you, with pacifism, to return to 8 March today, 10 March; your leader has also done so. On 8 March last year we were not with a pandemic formally declared by the World Health Organization. [[Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u33	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u34	We weren't. And before entering our country in alarm, constitutionally it was Madrid's health, which depended on its companion, which had to raise the technical report for a demonstration. [[protests]] That's the truth of the plot you're in. [[Applauds]] Do you know what happens to them on March 8th? That they were always missing on March 8th; that on March 8th is every day, which is called feminism and that one cannot incorporate in rondón at the last moment to turn it into a horse of battle of this democracy. You should be very ashamed that your leader took it out this morning too. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEVELOPED DON IVAN SPINOSIS OF THE SIMON MONTERS, OF THE VOX PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHICH FORMS THE VICE-President OF THE AND MINISTER OF THE PRESIDENCY, RELATIONS WITH THE COURTS AND DEMOCRATIC MEMORY: WHAT DOES THE PERMANENT BREAKDOWN IN THE GOVERNMENT GIVE TO THE SPANISH? [[File number 180/00444]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u35	Question by Mr Iván Espinosa de los Monteros de Simon, Member of the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u36	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Calvo, yesterday we knew that Podemos would open another gap with the Socialist Party and vote in the Eurocamera that the immunity of Puigdemont and the other leaders of the coup would not be withdrawn. There Podemos voted with ERC and Bildu, with those who have joined the state leadership, in the words of their vice president. It is clear that Podemos questions the judicial system, it is evident that he questions the monarchy, which questions abroad the quality of Spanish democracy, which questions the very institutions of which you are a part. At the beginning they were simply delighted to step on carpets, you know that a little pasta is enough to be part of the caste, but now it is no longer enough to be caste, now they want to be both government and opposition, and with each new initiative the gap is being opened, no matter what the migration policy, the housing law, the price of light, the law of freedom of expression, the law of equal treatment or the reduction of pensions. You mentioned now, how interesting, feminism, the new trans law, with gender self-determination. I am very interested in your opinion on this subject, but, in general, what does the ongoing confrontation within the Government bring to the Spaniards? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u37	Madam First Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u38	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Espinosa de los Monteros, you have called me Mrs Calvo and I thank you very much, but as I looked and asked the second vice president, I do not know if you were asking me. In any case, I will tell you what this Government brings: stability to this country, governability, 155 legitimate and legal seats, the search for support in the parliamentary system and, ultimately, democracy. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u39	Señor Espinosa de los Monteros.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u40	Thank you very much. So I ask you what the confrontation brings and you answer me that democracy; the confrontation brings democracy, it's interesting. In any case, I see that you have avoided the point of gender self-determination, and as this is more interesting than anything I have asked you, I will insist on it. What do you think of the new feminism and how does it attack the essence of what it is to be a woman? Because it attacks it from the moment it is decided that gender is self-perceived, because then - of course - the biology of women is denied and, therefore, women are being degraded. That seems very unfair to us with women, Madam Vice-President, and that is why we are going to defend them. If any of us can decide by her mere will that she is a woman, then what it is to be a woman and the new feminism and her government cancel femininity; what a beautiful word of progress: cancel. Precisely women, who fought so many years with men to achieve full equality of rights and obligations for each other, cannot feel represented by the new feminism and its Government and, in particular, by the feminism of the specialist in the matter of its Government, which is the Minister of Equality. As you say there is unity of action and that is the position of your branch minister, I also assume that it is the position of your government, or not, or that in the week of 8-M it turns out that the most feminist government in history does not even agree on what it is to be a woman, except, that is, to cut the pensions of mothers, who in that they agreed. Well, look, we'll defend women, we'll defend mothers, we'll defend suspensions, and while we're alone, we'll always do it, because there's only VOX left. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u41	Madam First Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u42	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Espinosa de los Monteros, I take very seriously - I seek - the obligations of my office, among which you are coming here, to respect and answer what you asked me or what you had formulated that you were going to ask me, but, out of respect, I will answer what you have also improvised. If you do not mind, we will abide by the rules of the functioning of the political work that unites the Executive with the Legislature, and when the Government project arrives here, which will arrive soon, about how we will address the protection of LGBT collectives, as you have a magnificent disposition, there I wait and there will be told by the Government. [[Applauds]] But you were asking me about the government's confrontation. As this is a matter that you have written to the First Vice-President of the Government, I will tell you what is confrontation to me. Confrontation, intercomillated mind, is a political group in my land, Andalusia, which says: from 00.00 this evening we will not approve anything in full or in commission of the two parties that are ruling, nothing more and nothing less than on the Andalusian Junta, if you do not do what I say. Well, that's a little bit of democracy. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPUTY THEODOR GARCIA EGEA, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHICH FORMS THE LORD SECOND SECOND SECOND PRESIDENT AND MINISTER OF SOCIAL RIGHTS AND AGENDA 2030: WHAT DOES THE SECOND Vice-President THINK TO CONDEN THE ACTOS OF TERRORISM CALLEGER IN THE SPAIN CALLS? [[File number 180/00439]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u43	Question to the second Vice-President of the Government and Minister for Social Rights and Agenda 2030. Question by Mr Teodoro García Egea, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u44	Madam President. Mrs Calvo, on March 8, while you were throwing gloves at the demonstration, we warned about the coronavirus; while in Madrid Ayuso closed schools, while Ayuso closed schools, Óscar Fuentes and Echenique talked about a flu and look at the flu we have! [[rumors]] Meanwhile, many women and many men go to the public hospital and you go to the Ruber; that is the socialism that you defend. [[Applauds]] Señor Iglesias: The Constitution does not establish democratic rules of play and the first person who realized this was ETA. This phrase was uttered by you, it is true that you uttered it when you were one of the characters who lit up the new policy and yet today you are the Vice-President of the Government. You took office by a promise to keep and keep the Constitution loyally to the king, and you know that the meaning of our Constitution, like that of all Europeans, was and is to prevent and expel from political life any act of violence. What we all have right to know today is what you have to do with the idea that the Constitution that you promised to keep is not democratic, what kind of rules you think you set up the Constitution if they are not democratic rules and what you are now Vice-President of the Government of Spain if you have not taken up office under a democratic procedure. I therefore ask you when you intend to condemn acts of street terrorism. [[A lady Member: Very well!-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u45	Mr Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u46	Thank you, Madam President. Your Honor, terrorism - ETA terrorism, ultra-right terrorism, state terrorism, jihadist terrorism - has done a lot of damage in this country for you to banalize. Look, there is only one political force in Spain that encourages and practices street violence: they are its government partners; there is only one political force with parliamentary representation in Spain that openly advocates state terrorism and ultra-right terrorism and also has proven economic links with an Iranian terrorist organization: its partner. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u47	Mr. García Aegean.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u48	Mr Iglesias, I am separated from some things VOX, but I do not allow you, who is the person who has most encouraged violence in this Parliament, who has your number three accused of kicking a policeman, to be pointed out to no one here for instigating any violence. [[rumors]] You are street violence personified in this government!, you. [[Applauds]] Because, on second thought, how are you going to condemn violence if your number three kicks cops?, how?, how did it occur to me to ask this question today? Many people, Mr. Iglesias, think that you and Mr. Sánchez are not the same; I think that this little theater that deals with fights instead of being in people is something of this, right? But let's get to the facts. You don't condemn violent acts on the street, Sanchez quiet. You have a party accused of corruption, Sanchez allows it. He cuts off the pensions of the mothers and Sanchez, too. Sanchez shuts up and allows everything because he's worth everything. Yesterday, Mr Iglesias, on the side of a fugitive, what image do you think we see in Europe when half of a government is on the side of a man who has fled justice? As long as they cut their pensions to mothers, they raise their taxes to the self-employed and promise aid that never comes, Mr. Iglesias. You, in addition to protecting the violent, are the government against the people. Think about it, think about it. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u49	Mr Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u50	Thank you, Madam President. Don Teodoro, when you vote with VOX to erase a feminist mural in Madrid, you are encouraging vandalism against that mural afterwards and are encouraging violence against the feminist movement. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] Your Honor, when you, along with VOX, destroy a plate of Long Knight or destroy a memorial of fascist shootings, you are encouraging the violence of the far right. [[Applauds]] You think, Your Honor, that by looking like VOX you are going to win the cultural battle on the right-hand side and if you speak as VOX, act as VOX and rule as VOX, I hope you will end up faggotized by the far right. And two more considerations. One for you. You were talking about yesterday's supplication. The last two petitions in the European Parliament had 95 % yeses. This just dropped from 50%. Think about whether there is a political problem or there is no political problem. And since the Spiny Member of the Monteros was referring to me talking about the trans law, I'm going to tell you one thing for you to understand. Do you know the difference between Paca la Piraña and Mr. Abascal? Paca the Pyranny did the militia, Your Honor. [[Applauds]] - THE DEPARTMENT OF MARIO GARCÍES SANAGUSTÍN, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHICH FORMS THE VICE-President OF THE THIRD AND MINISTER OF ECONOMIC AFFAIRS AND DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION: WHAT RESPONSIBILITIES DOES THE GOVERNMENT THINK AFTER THE DECISION TO OBTAIN THE OPINION OF THE STATE COUNCIL ON THE ROLE OF THE EUROPEAN FUNDS? [[File number 180/00440]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u51	Questions to the third Vice-President of the Government and Minister for Economic Affairs and Digital Transformation. Question by Mr Mario Garcés Sanagustín, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u52	Thank you very much, Madam President. Madam Vice-President, there is no longer any doubt that you concealed the opinion of the Council of State and dishonest reasons had taken account of the content of that report. From time to time I think of how you could experience that transition between that illustrated technocracy that lived in Brussels and this courtyard of Monipodio, which is the government in which you are Vice-President of the Government. That yard in Monipodio where they have partners who were so far Eurosceptic and now fight for the 11 billion from Tuesday to Friday as if it were the Euromillion. That's the reality. And one thing, Madam Vice President, the President has just left, but he has blatantly lied in this Congress. We have voted in favour of certain decrees. We have tabled 1700 amendments which have not been estimated. We have made pacts and have not been accepted. Please deny what the President of the Government has said. That said, the text of the opinion is the synthesis of his Government. The government has curtailed and extinguished competitive competition, ended with equality, imposed arbitrariness and clientelism and, in the face of those political formations that with a poor intellectual discourse said they voted yes, and voted yes because they did not have the opinion of the Council of State, I ask, please, the gentlemen of VOX to read the texts next time. There is no need to express an opinion without reading the report of the Council of State. It's simple. Today that they have changed, by the way, to sexist language, because we have heard the leader of VOX talking about Spanish and Spanish, - welcome to the sexist language - the truth is that it comes very well that we also say this directly. From here I do want to say one thing. While United We can seek the colonization of institutions, you are necessary accomplices. Even if they have to hide a report from the Council of State, they do. They have even concealed, Madam Minister of Finance, the report of the General Intervention of the State Administration. In this regard, what steps will you take to demand responsibilities as a result of the concealment of the Council of State's opinion? Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u53	Madam Third Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u54	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, as we have had the opportunity to speak on several occasions here, the rapid deployment of the Recovery Plan is absolutely key to boosting growth as early as 2021, to set in motion a process of transformation that will strengthen our growth also in the medium term and give us greater resilience in the face of future crises. And for that there are two fundamental pieces, the General Budgets of the State for 2021 and the Royal Decree-Law adopted at the end of last year to speed up all administrative procedures, give a modern framework for public and private collaboration, while protecting, at the same time, the good management of public resources and all controls of the highest standards, as it cannot be otherwise. This text was consulted with the European Commission and the Council of State and the recommendations of these two bodies were incorporated into the final text. Your Honor, really, it gives the impression that you are looking for excuses to explain the inexplicable and that is why you voted against two of the key pieces to deploy a Recovery Plan that is obviously essential for our country. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u55	Mr. Garcés.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u56	For a change, you don't answer me, Madam Vice President, but you have to know one thing. You have extinguished competitive competition, unbridled control every day, and furthermore, as you are necessary accomplices of the Union Podemos, you have decided to use unilaterality to grant subsidies, now that you have obviously been cast into the arms of the totalitarian delirium of Podemos, but the most curious of all is that the President of the Government announces you lose them. He announces Los Perte as the leader of an autonomous regime in Spain that decided to announce development poles. We're on it. The parties are not socialist, but state parties and we tell them one thing. Seek the support of the People's Party, which are the only... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u57	Thank you, Mr. Garcés. Madam Third Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u58	Mr Garcés, as an agent, knows perfectly well that this royal decree-law responds to the administrative procedure of our country, eliminates bottlenecks and improves the agility of the public administration by protecting all controls. In any case, you may suggest improvements related to that royal decree-law in the parliamentary process. I am surprised that it does not feel right for the President of the Government to announce something as important as that Spain will be the country that will lead the electrification of the automotive sector in Europe, which is absolutely key to the Spanish economy. Anyway, it ended with a positive message and it is that I remain with his hand extended so that we have his support in the implementation of this Recovery Plan which, as I said earlier, is absolutely essential if we want to have a strong recovery already in 2021, a process of transformation that puts us in a stronger, more solid position and of greater resistance in the face of the future. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] - OF THE GIRL INES ARRIMED GARCIA, OF THE CITIZEN'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE VICE-President OF THE THIRD MINISTER OF ECONOMIC AFFAIRS AND DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION: DOES THE GOVERNMENT PRESENT A TRUE RESCENT PLAN, WITH SuffICIENT AID TO THE AUTONOMS AND SMEs GRANTED IN THIS CRISIS? [[File number 180/00436]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u59	Question by Mrs Inés Arrimadas García, Member of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u60	Mrs Calviño, has the government planned a real rescue plan, with sufficient direct aid for the self-employed and the SMEs hit by this crisis?
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u61	Madam Third Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u62	Your Honor, we've been implementing that real rescue plan for a year now, and you know it perfectly well. The Government has taken measures, which have been validated by this Parliament, that have mobilized an unprecedented amount of resources that will have to pay the taxes of all Spanish people, present and future. It has been essential, necessary and very positive and that is the line in which we will follow. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u63	Mrs. Arrimadas.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u64	It is now two weeks since Mr Sánchez' announcement of an alleged plan of 11 billion, which was obviously an improvisation. You were the first surprised - you saw it all over Spain - and even days later you had to admit that there was nothing elaborate. A year has passed since the outbreak of the pandemic, and the Government continues to act as the first day, generating uncertainty and defrauding expectations, an uncertainty that never ceases and expectations that are never met. Spain already needs a real direct aid plan for SMEs and self-employed people, as do other countries: Germany, France, Portugal and Italy. We do not, despite the fact that the economic drama has been greater here, especially in sectors such as tourism and hospitality. These direct aids could have been in effect for three months now if you had wanted to agree on the budgets with us, but you preferred to agree with Esquerra and Bildu in exchange for bringing older prisoners closer together. Today we are again proposing a realistic real plan, with the figures made: 15 billion, of which at least 9 billion must be direct aid. In addition, this plan can be financed by a mechanism of the European Union that allows access to money under better conditions than by going out to markets and will not compute as a debt. We will send you this plan because it would not be the first time you finally take on some of our proposals, but you are late and you are short. The ICO credits, the ERTEs and the extraordinary benefit of the self-employed are correct measures - you know that we have negotiated with you some of them - but please do not say that they are direct aids because it is an insult to those who have a bar, a store or a company. They know perfectly well how to distinguish a credit or an ERTE from what are direct aid. We are talking about sufficient aid - not crumbling - to compensate them for the losses they have suffered due to the restrictions imposed by the Government. It is a very great effort, we know it, but we should call it in-depth aid because the cost of not approving them is much greater. Look, 130,000 SMEs are on the verge of bankruptcy. Anything other than an ambitious direct aid plan will be a pull in the middle of a huge hemorrhage. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u65	Madam Third Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u66	I will make three reflections in answer to your question, Mrs. Arrimadas. First, the Government does not improvise in the area of economic policy. Precisely since March, if something has characterized the Government's action has been anticipation, determination, and that has prevented us from falling gross domestic product by more than 25% and destroying 3 million jobs, at the same time we have set up a safety net that has served to protect the productive fabric, to protect the employment and incomes of families. This is the line we have to follow. Secondly, this unprecedented resource mobilization, as I said, which amounts to 20% of last year's gross domestic product, which already amounts to more than 2% of this year's gross domestic product, is a very important volume of resources that must be used well, with responsibility. I'm sure you'll agree with me in this regard. By the way, that reference to debt that doesn't compute as debt sounds a lot to me like miraculous solutions. Talk to your MEP to explain it well. Thirdly, what we are going to adopt this Friday is indeed an ambitious plan for direct aid to businesses. So I hope to count on your support for the necessary validation of the royal decree-law, because it is true that we have to be right, it is true that we have to make good use of public resources and continue to support, as we have done since March last year, the productive fabric, employment, families, protecting health, protecting people, protecting our economy, which is the general objective for which we are here. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEVELOPED Mrs. CAROLINA TELECHEA I LOZANO, OF THE REPUBLICAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHICH FORMULATES TO THE GOVERNMENT: HOW MANY EXTRAORDINARY REGULARITIES OF MORE THAN A MILLION EUROS HAVE THE MINISTRY ACCOUNTED FOR THE LAST YEAR? [[File number 180/00435]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u67	Questions to the Minister of Finance. Question by Mrs Carolina Telechea i Lozano, Member of the Republican Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u68	Thank you, President. How many extraordinary regularisations of more than 1 million euros has the ministry accounted for in the past year?
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u69	Madam Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u70	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mrs Telechea, I understand that with the concept of extraordinary regularization you are referring to out-of-date declarations, out-of-date self-liquidations, which are technically called out-of-date declarations. I can tell you that in 2020 the timeless declarations were 311. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u71	Mrs. Telechea.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u72	Thank you, President. Minister, do you believe that all citizens are equal before the law? Last February 25 Hacienda regularises €4.4 million for income that the king had not declared and in December he had to pay €680,000, four months after he had fled. Where does this fortune that Hacienda has cleaned up in connivance with the government come from? Apparently, we're not all of them. Why does he do it now and not when he was playing? The most progressive government of democracy allocates 8.4 million euros to the Royal House from the General Budgets of the State. And being not enough, through other opaque games, it allocates more public money to the payrolls of the entourage that accompanies the Bourbon, since August, in the United Arab Emirates; the compensations for wrongful dismissal of the crew of the yacht Fortuna, even with the name seems to mock the citizens; the maintenance of the houses between which he spent his time with Corinna Larsen; the insurance of the Rolls Royce, the Cadillac and other luxury cars. All this paid for from National Heritage, which depends on the ministry of the Presidency; a bottomless hole that serves the monarchy to pay for its holidays. [[Pronounce words in Catalan]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, not only do they agree to their escape, but they pay for their service and luxuries. Have you calculated how many vaccines could be paid with this indecent amount of money? And speaking of vaccines, will they explain to us how the infants have been vaccinated? Aren't you ashamed of yourself? Instead of chasing corrupt monarchs, they are chasing democrats for a referendum. They have no principle or minimum sense of ethics. [[Pronounce words in Catalan]] For this and for many things we work to make the Catalan Republic a reality. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u73	Madam Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u74	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mrs. Telechea, 311, which was the question you asked me. You have not made any reference to this figure, you were not interested, because what you wanted to highlight is that the actions of the Tax Agency are different depending on the taxpayer, thing, Your Honor, which is a lie. It is not true that the Tax Agency has a different behavior depending on the taxpayer and, moreover, I tell you something else, Mrs Telechea, to undermine the conduct of King Juan Carlos you do not have to delegitimize the work of the Tax Agency. This conduct alone is blamed, it has the rejection of society as a whole and the rejection of this Government. [[applause]] Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, if you want to attack the institutions of the State, do so, but, of course, do not do so through the disqualification of the work of excellent professionals who pursue tax fraud and who allow us all to be calm in this country because, at least, before the legal issues, before the issues that have to do with the tax obligations of all taxpayers, we are all equal. From there, all that you have said in your speech, that mix of issues you have mentioned trying to appear to be a different treatment, a favored treatment by this government with the Royal House, is false, Your Honor. We respect the Constitution, we respect the institutions of the State and we, of course, will continue to pursue, from the institutions of the State, any irregularity or deviation from the norm, the protagonist. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPUTY DON JON IÑARRITU GARCIA, OF THE PARLIAMENTARY GROUP EUSKAL HERRIA BILDU, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF ARRANGEMENTS: ARE ALL CONTRIBUTORS EQUAL TO THE TRIBUTARY AGENCY? [[File number 180/00431]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u75	Question by Mr Jon Iñarritu García, Member of the Parliamentary Group Euskal Herria Bildu.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u76	Thank you very much, President. Mrs. Montero, do you consider the government that all taxpayers are equal before the Tax Agency?
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u77	Madam Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u78	Thank you very much, Madam President. Indeed, Mr Iñarritu, as I have just replied to the spokesman for the Republican Left of Catalonia, the Government clearly considers that all taxpayers are equal before the Tax Agency, because the Agency is governed by procedures, by rules that are common to all and act on the basis of legal aid or acting on its own initiative when it understands that there can be a fact that causes irregularity or has consequences for the public finances. No one - I insist, Mr Iñarritu, no one - is above those rules or that procedure. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u79	Mr. Iñarritu.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u80	Madam Minister, from the press we have learned that the Emeritus King has made a second regularization last month, the joke is that to make this regularization he has made a crowdfunding among friends. And, of course, we do not know whether the purpose of it is to hide the fortune that seems to be that this gentleman has in tax havens or that it is the modus operandi of this family. Let us remember that the origin of this fortune is indicated that it was born in donations of monarchies of the Persian Gulf and in the same way let us remember a fact that has remembered another deputy, that to have a new yacht, the Fortune, made a collection between friends and the State paid for the maintenance of the ship and also the cessation of the crew, what is called a win win. Look, minister, the press and other states point out that this gentleman is billionaire and the basis of that fortune, which some sources estimate at more than EUR 2 billion - EUR 2 billion - would be based on the commissions that this gentleman would have received for doing commercial mediation work abroad. I'd like to know if you're investigating these facts. He said that everyone is the same before the Tax Agency and he reminds me of the phrase of the inclito in 2011, when he said that the law is the same for everyone. Well, so that it doesn't sound the same, can you tell us today if this gentleman has filled that 720 model of goods abroad, or if the Tax Agency has acted the same - the same - in all cases or there is preferential treatment and there is a slowness, a laxity that makes some people think that there is preferential treatment in this case? I understand, Minister, that they have a hot potato and that if they investigate they can go further than the Emeritus King, but I believe that their obligation is to tell us today what they have done or what they will do in the face of this scandal. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u81	Madam Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u82	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Iñarritu, I think the first thing I should have done before I put this question is to know what obligations are with regard to taxpayer information that each and every one of us can declare and you know perfectly well that neither the Tax Agency nor the Minister of Finance nor any other member of the Executive can have any information or declare any information with respect to a particular taxpayer. You know that. So, when you ask that question, I understand it's a trick question because you know the answer. What I can say is what is done in similar situations and what I say and have said over the course of these days is that, of course, and I would like to reiterate, the Tax Agency always acts under the same procedure and under the same rule is the taxpayer in question, and I believe that all of you throughout the history of the Tax Agency have witnessed this issue. I would like to tell you that when the Office of the Prosecutor carries out its task in relation to a case, the Tax Agency acts as a judicial aid and this means that it is at the disposal of the courts to carry out the relevant investigations and investigations. Finally, Mr Iñarritu, I cannot answer the question, but who told you that the Tax Agency is not carrying out investigative tasks in cases similar to the one we are dealing with, since we cannot talk about any taxpayers? It is clear that the Tax Agency has to check that the regularizations are complete and true, and that is a common task for all taxpayers. So, I try to please, nothing. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u83	Thank you very much, Minister. - OF THE DEVELOPED MARIA TERESA JIMENEZ-BECERRIL BARRIO, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF THE INTERIOR: HOW DOES THE PROPAGENDIST ACT OF DESTRUCTION OF STATE WEEKLY WEEKLY CONCERNING THE FIVE-EARTH ARRANGEMENT BILDU? [[File number 180/00441]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u84	Questions to the Minister for the Interior. Question by María Teresa Jiménez-Becerril Barrio, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u85	Mr. Marlaska, how do you explain the act of propaganda for the destruction of ETA weapons as you approach your homes every week five floors away from those who shot them? Among those weapons would be those that Otegi used to shoot Gabriel Cisneros and kidnap his victims. What good is it for us, Mr Marlaska, to destroy ETA's weapons if the President of Spain deals with the terrorist Otegi who was holding them? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u86	Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u87	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mrs Jiménez-Becerril, with regard to the act of destruction of weapons, let me wait for Mr Gil Lázaro's question, which he asks in a textual way. With regard to the transfer of prisoners, of the prisoners of the terrorist organization ETA, and as has already been reiterated for more than two and a half years, I have only one thing to say to them. If you believe that this Government is acting discretionaryly, arbitrarily, do not come here and do not ask me this question here, you ask it to me before a judicial body. In application, I say again, of the Prison Act, this Government applies the law in the transfer of prisoners from the terrorist organization ETA as in any other case, following technical criteria. That is our premise, the principle of legality to defeat the terrorist organization ETA and the principle of legality to apply prison legislation. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u88	Mrs. Jiménez-Becerril.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u89	Mr Marlaska, I have brought complaints before judicial bodies about the rise of terrorism and you are sleeping there the dream of the righteous, and you want to remove that crime. If I really knew I could go against you, God knows I would. Mr Marlaska, ETA is not defeated, ETA is represented there and there is no apisonator able to destroy it while the president of the government pacts with his heirs. Last Thursday they staged the pantomime of ETA's defeat, on Friday they approached their homes at five stories and in a few days they will pass the competition of prisons to the Basque government so that the stories and terrorists will go out on the street. And they're still really trying to make us believe them? Look at me face to face and tell the Spaniards why they have benefited more than 160 terrorists and intend to continue to do so; terrorists who do not repent, who do not cooperate with the justice system to clarify the more than 350 unresolved ETA crimes. Most of these ages, Mr Marlaska, have blood felonies, have blood-stained hands, such as those who killed Alberto and Ascen, or Fernando Buesa, and have taken them to the Basque Country this week. Did you really think that we were going to applaud Pedro Sánchez while the defeat of ETA was being awarded, humiliating the Civil Guard, the police, the victims of ETA and all the Spaniards who resisted and really beat ETA? We don't need acts for Mr. Sánchez's greater glory, what we need is for this government to stop paying Bildu favors, trampling on the sacrifice of thousands of Spaniards, who really... [[Prolonged applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, of the Joint Parliamentary Group (Union of the Navarro People and Forum Asturias), standing.-Applause of the VOX Parliamentary Group]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u90	Thank you very much, Mrs Jiménez-Becerril. Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u91	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you very much, Mrs Jiménez-Becerril. I will be very clear: you in your speech today attacked the judiciary, the judges, who also put a lot in the defeat of the terrorist organization ETA. [[Rumors]] [[Applauds]] You, in your demonstration today, have attacked an autonomy, to the autonomy of the Basque Country, doubting the compliance of legality on the part of it, unaware however that the transfer will be from the prison management, not from the prison policy. And he does, obviously, in bad faith. Our respect for the victims of the terrorist organization ETA and all the victims of terrorism, we will never confront them. But let me be able to confront you, because you are exercising politics today. That party, that party of braves - first, Marimar Blanco, and then Jiménez-Becerril - finds no other person to confront than the Ministry of the Interior. Why? Why do you strive to use terrorism as a political weapon when it does not exist, no matter how much you say otherwise? Why this inability to celebrate a collective success of society as was the defeat of terrorism? Why does it cost you so much? [[Applauds]] Let me tell you something: enough of opportunism, enough of using terrorism as a weapon of confrontation, enough of confrontation, enough of questioning an important achievement of democracy and Spanish society, as was the defeat of ETA through the application of the law and the rule of law. [[Applauds]] - OF THE MINISTER OF THE INTERIOR: WHAT FINALITY DOES THE SPECTACLE RESPONSIBLE WITH THE PUBLIC DESTRUCTION OF WEAPONS THAT WERE PART OF THE TERRORIST ORGANIZATION ETA? [[File number 180/00445]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u92	Question by Mr Ignacio Gil Lázaro, Member of the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u93	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, let me tell you that you are dirty and outraged at the manipulation you have just made of Mrs Jiménez-Becerril's intervention, to which you owe a minimum of respect as a member of this House and as a victim of ETA. [[applause]] Therefore, taking his own cry, I say to him now: Enough of miserable ministers! Enough of miserable government! [[Protests.-Applause.]] To what does the intention of the spectacle mounted with the public destruction of ETA weapons respond? [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u94	Quiet, please. Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u95	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Gil Lázaro, as I can show you - I think it is clear - in the fight against terrorism and demonstrations I have a much more solvent history than yours. [[One Member: Very well!-Applause]] But I will tell you that the act of public destruction of weapons responds not to an act of propaganda by the Socialist Government or the United Nations Podemos, but to a request made by the Memorial Centre for Victims of Terrorism since 2017. [[Several Members: Nooo!]] [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u96	Mr. Gil Lazarus.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u97	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, as I told you a week earlier and I will repeat it to you again and again, the difference between you and me is that I am defending the same principles as always, and you have become Bildu's political fluff. [[Applauds]] Make it so clear to you! Look at you, lie to the House again. You have perverted the original act, behind closed doors and in tribute to the victims planned by the Memorial Center of the Victims of Terrorism Foundation, to disembark Sánchez and turn him into a shameful spectacle at the service of his vanity, full of petulance and cynicism. It was a real disregard for the victims who were marginalized from silence and, above all, Sánchez's speech was a real insult to truth and memory. It was outrageous, not to say disgusting, to hear him assume the traditional terminology of ETA and its heirs speaking of claiming the construction of peace. Look, that dialectic infects in which ETA and his heirs have always tried today to erase the trail of their crimes to equalize victims and executioners. It is also outrageous to hear you speak of weapons delivered, a genuine insult to the thousands of civilian guards and police officers who gave their lives to try to insert them into ETA. In short, minister, it was a grotesque, scoundrel, vile and miserable montage, which responds exactly to the true chandelier of this... [[Ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, some of them on the floor]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u98	Thank you, Mr. Gil. Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u99	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Gil Lázaro, we show our respect - as you can imagine and we reiterate - and our recognition of the victims of terrorism, but I will not be afraid to defeat professional politicians like you, who only miserably use terrorism and for personal purposes, with the truth. You have a very busy backpack for many years now, and now you have the faith of the convert. You've been a congressman long before I was a judge and I already have 11 trienniums. You were the silent spokesman for the Interior of the People's Party who - yes, you - muted when José María Aznar called the ETA terrorist band the National Liberation Movement. [[Several Members: Bravo!-Applause]] While ETA broke the dialogue in the year 2000 and judges and prosecutors fought terrorism from this rostrum, you defended - I say quotes - the recent decision to approach prisons in the Basque Country or its surroundings from a very important number of depressive ages as unequivocal proof of the clear expression of willingness to restart contacts - close quotes -. [[A Member: How have you changed!-Protests]] That's you! Assignments to terrorism at parliamentary level. [[Applauds]] Your Honor, you're asking me about the act the other day. As I told you, it was on the initiative of the Memorial Center. I will agree with you when you called the cowardly People's Party, because the People's Party was not able to perform an act of a maximum symbolism for all the victims of terrorism as an initial act of the inauguration of the Victims of Terrorism Memorial Center, with which you are committed - as it could not otherwise be - this Government resolutely. [[protests]] [[Several Members: Very well!-Applause]] - OF THE DEPUTY DON JOSEBA ANDONI AGIRRETXEA URRRESTI, OF THE VASCO PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHICH FORMS THE MINISTER OF EQUALITY: WHAT ASSESSMENT IS REALIZED OF THE SITUATION OF THE PEOPLE REFUGEED TO BY WOMEN IN THE CARDS OF THE STATE? [[EAJ-PNV]] [[File number 180/00433]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u100	Question by Mr Joseba Andoni Agirretxea Urresti, Member of the Basque Parliamentary Group [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u101	Minister, this question was addressed to the Minister for Equality and I do not know why you are going to answer it. A great commitment to equality when a problem of discrimination against women is answered by the Minister of the Interior. What is it, that the Minister of Equality doesn't want to answer it? True things, friend Sancho. What is your assessment of the situation of the female prisoner population in State prisons?
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u102	Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u103	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you, Mr. Agirretxea. First of all, I will tell you that, although we have, as it should be in a progressive and democratic government, a Ministry of Equality, equality policy is also cross-cutting, and for this Minister of the Interior the policy of equality and the promotion of women in the State Security Forces and Prison Institutions - the latter's competence - is obviously a priority objective. [[applause]] In this regard, I would like to tell you that for the female prisoner population it accounts for 7.3% of the total; 30% of the female interns are serving sentences in third or second grades but flexible, i.e. in semi-freedom; 60% of the female interns are in Andalusia, Madrid and the Valencian Community. With regard to your situation, I refer you, if I may, to a study we have carried out on the perception of satisfaction of women in prisons. It is noted that inmates have a good atmosphere of coexistence in this environment. It also notes the preference that they are in favour of mixed centres and call for a prison activity promotion administration, a lever that will allow them to reintegrate effectively into parameters of equality when they return to freedom. From the Government we have therefore set as a priority to continue to promote the promotion of women prisoners by avoiding gender roles in all prison resources, benefits and programmes, enhancing mixed modules and also comprehensive training on equality among all public employees of penitentiary institutions, and something as important as, taking into account that 70 per cent of inmates have been subjected to male-based violence, gender-based violence, to undertake training programmes to provide them with the necessary tools to deal with such male-based violence once they are free. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u104	Mr. Agirretxea.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u105	Do you see how right I was, that I should have been answered by the Minister of Equality and not you? He does not answer me who should have answered me and he does not comply with what is approved by this House. We started well. In June last year my group presented a non-legislative proposal denouncing the unequal and discriminatory situation of women in Spanish prisons, a real and verified situation. We reported that in the Spanish prison policy, of 80 prisons, only 4 were exclusive to women and the 75 modules with capacity for 40 women were filled and could even accommodate up to 60 or 70 women prisoners. Article 16 of the General Prison Act is therefore not guaranteed. But in everyday life, discrimination is structural, it's not just a point of order. They can't share sports equipment because there are men who are using them and can endanger their safety. They can't attend workshops with men for the same, and so many more. In addition to prisoners, they are discriminated against. They continue to do, for example, cleaning work that men do not do. As a result of the adoption of all this case, a resolution in the form of a compromise amendment was adopted signed by eight groups, including the two groups forming the Government, which urged the Government to prepare within six months a report on the situation of female prisoners, which, together with appropriate measures to introduce a gender perspective into prison policy, as well as other shortcomings in various areas and areas, would be submitted to the Congress Equality Commission. Where's the report? Who took care of it, you or the Ministry of Equality? Because it says so clearly: before the Congressional Equality Commission. However, we have not received any inconsistencies or reports. The worst is that we fear that there is no report or corrective action, and the resulting problems remain the same. Too bad, we thought this week of International Women's Day was going to bring us the report and get some money. Well, no, I'm sorry. In the meantime, we'll continue to report...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u106	Thank you very much, Mr Agirretxea. Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u107	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, Mr. Agirretxea. We work this week and 365 days of the year for the equality of women and interns. I'm going to tell you that lexicon is very important in terms of equality, and we don't like prisoners and prisoners. Prison institutions are now talking about inmates, people with all the rights in force... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u108	Thank you very much, Minister. - OF THE DEPARTMENTAL DIRECTOR ANA MARIA ZURITA EXPOSIT, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF TRANSPORT, MOBILITY AND URBAN AGENDA: WHAT IMPORTS THE EUROPEAN RECOVERY AND RESILIENCE FUND IS PLANNED TO DESTINATE THE GOVERNMENT TO THE EXPROPIATIONS OF LIVING IN 2021? [[File number 180/00442]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u109	Questions to the Minister for Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda. Question by Mrs Ana María Zurita Exposito, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u110	Thank you, President. Good morning, everyone. Minister, you presented us with the 2021 housing budgets as the highest in history; high yes, but concise. It annihilated the Housing Plan to convert it into rental aid, Plan 20,000 and little more, 16 billion smoke for various actions with European funds that we still don't know for what. Could you tell us how much of this fund is going to be used for expropriation of housing? Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u111	Minister for Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u112	Thank you very much, President. Madam Member, the question is very simple and the answer is very clear: zero euros to what you are asking. This Government does not carry out those expropriations that you comment on. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u113	Mrs. Zurita.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u114	Mr. Ábalos, what you have to do is clarify, because you say one thing and you do another. Let's get to the facts. You bring us here two royal decrees where, under the pretext of banning evictions - by the way, if your rental aid had worked, there would be no evictions - legalizes the ocupation and the free disposal of properties that are not yours. Okupa and expropriate, attacks the private property with impunity. Mr Ábalos, this is a rule of law, this is not Venezuela. For more inri, last week we saw how in Balearic Islands it was announced the expropriation of 56 homes by her party partner, Mrs Armengol, socialist like you, who was unable to fulfill her promise to build 500 expropriated homes more than fifty. Of your 20,000 homes - of which we have not seen any - how many will you send to expropriate, Mr. Ábalos? If for 500 you play 50, for 20,000, tell us how many you're going to expropriate. Minister, we have a Spain with 5.5 million unemployed and, instead of 20,000 houses built, we have 15 000 occupied. Instead of rented houses, we have broken families, and instead of building, you offer expropriation. That's why we want you to answer us. Mr Ábalos, will you transfer the experiment of the Socialist Balearic Party to expropriate people throughout Spain? We've been waiting three years for him to do something, and not exactly toast in the Canary Islands with Moëtand Chandon, something that neither the expropriated nor the... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u115	Thank you, Mrs. Zurita. Minister for Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u116	I see you haven't been able to avoid the last. [[Laughter]] I thought he was behaving, but you know that all that is due to that cordial encounter between you and me in the same place. And you know that this cordiality, which I thanked so much, seems to me today to be true hypocrisy as seen. [[Applauds]] But let's get to the point. I see her very lost in housing. I believe that what bothers you is that we really do make housing policy. The budget you voted no, is the largest in housing history: 2250 million compared to 475 million in the 2018 budget, i.e. an increase of 373 %. That's what it's like to have an interest in housing. It bothers them that rental prices have fallen, or that we have already committed a public park of 50,000 homes in Plan 20.000 - which is no longer called that, because we have committed and agreed 24,000 homes - plus the agreements we have had with the Sareb, with the Social Banking Fund and with private entities. All this allows us to talk about a public park of 50,000 homes. European funds will be dedicated to housing, to boost Spain's economy through rehabilitation. With the increase of 10 billion more that Spain is going to receive, 1000 of them are going to devote more to rehabilitation and another 1000 - which were not proposed - to social housing. As I say to you, we want to make a housing park, but you were dedicated to misselling. That's the big difference. And already once sold and declared null by the courts, as the 3,000 homes of the Community of Madrid have been, now they do not want to take over. That is the big difference in housing policy. So I recommend that you learn a little more about politics, not to praise it, but to make its criticism and opposition more effective. Thank you. [[Applauds]] - THE DEPARTMENT OF THE NECESSARY CANDAMIL KINGDOM, OF THE PLURAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF TRANSPORT, MOBILITY AND URBAN AGENDA: WHY, WHEREAS THERE ARE NECESSARY PARTICIPATIONS IN THE GENERAL BUDGETS OF THE STATE OF 2021, HAVE NECESSARY ENJOYED TO APPLY THE REVENUE AND DISCUSSION IN AP-9? [[File number 180/00432]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u117	Question by Mr Néstor Rego Candamil, Member of the Plural Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u118	Minister, why, with the necessary items in the 2021 budgets, have not the rebates and discounts started to apply in the AP-9? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u119	Minister for Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u120	Thank you, President. Thank you, Congressman. Indeed, the General Budgets of the State for 2021 contain an item of EUR 55 million for the establishment of new bonuses and reductions of tolls on the Atlantic Highway. The truth is, first of all, this was essential to follow the process; now we are in the process. As you know, this is also a prior agreement of the President's investiture with you, so let's do it. Now, understand that it has been two months since the beginning of the year and this brings some rigour and, among other things, also logically negotiate these amendments with the concessional contract. We're on it, I guarantee you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u121	Mr. Rego.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u122	Minister, you know that AP 9 is one of the most expensive highways in the state and one of the three that have long-term concessions - by the way, two of them are in Galicia because it is also AP 53,Santiago-Lalín -. While most of the state highways completed their concession and became toll-free in the period 2018-2022, AP 9 will, if not remedied, be subject to concession until the year 2048 and with abusive tolls that are a burden on the development of Galicia and our economy. In order to put an end to this abuse, we included in the investment agreement, signed between the BNG and the Socialist Party, measures in this direction and in particular the 100 per cent bonus of the toll for recurring users, the gratuitousness of the Vigo-Redondela section and the elimination of the increase for twenty years from the decrees of 2011 and 2013. They are all necessary measures, and they also have budgetary support. It is therefore not understood that the Government, instead of announcing that 1 January was beginning to apply it, would announce a further increase in tariffs. There are no objective reasons for the Government to continue to delay the implementation of these discounts and rebates. Do not continue to tell us the story about how complicated negotiations with Audasa and processing are, because they had more than a year to negotiate and prepare for that processing. They now fulfill what they signed and what they committed to with all the Galicians and Galicians. I do not know if you are concerned about the credibility of the Socialist Party, but I suppose you will know that every day that goes by without applying the discounts negatively affects that credibility, that of the PSOE and that of the government, and every day more will be the Galicians who think that it is not you who trust, that it is not a party that can be trusted. They fulfill and prove that they are not, that they are able to honour their commitments, because that is what all Galicians and Galicians are waiting for. We are pleased that the compromise will be reaffirmed here, but we hope that it will be implemented as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u123	Minister for Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u124	Thank you, President. Mr President, you will agree with me that we can be having this debate because we have a budget that could have prospered, despite your vote against, if not, we would not be talking about this. [[Applauds]] I believe that the fact of the agreement must also be celebrated and valued, because this represents a very important transfer for Galicia. What we are going to pass in the form of a royal decree in order to materialize these bonuses is two thirds of what the State spends on all the bonuses in Spain. That is, of all that is spent in Spain, two thirds are going to Galicia. It is not about putting something for a temporary situation, but about putting a bonus measure until the concession is over, something that has never been talked about. And we're working on it, obviously. I imagine you'll know how the administration works, there are a whole series of procedures that, logically, end up in a real decree. And that's what we're working on. The most interested, as you say, are us, the Government of Spain. So, trust that we're going to do it. This is very important for Galicia, it will last in time and, therefore, we need it to be rigorous. I also suggest another issue, and it is that in the nearly fifty years of history of this highway, no government has ever granted any bonuses for what we are talking about. It is therefore very good for Galicia and it is in her hand to decide whether she wants to celebrate it or whether she wants to continue protesting. Point to success, not training. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u125	We are now dealing with the appeals addressed to the Government. First, urgent interpellation by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress on the adoption by the Council of Ministers of 2 March 2021 of the general guidelines of the 2030 Sustainable Development Strategy and its implications for the future housing law. Mrs Gamarra Ruiz Clavijo has the floor for her defence. [[Rumors.-Pause]] I'm asking for a little silence, please. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u126	Thank you, President. Very good morning, Mr. Second Vice President. I considered that after your party - for which you are the most responsible - yesterday did not defend national sovereignty and will vote against that supplication, so that in our country you can judge those who are fleeing, today you will no longer be the second vice president of the Government of Spain, because I believe it is the least that our country deserves. But, seeing that it continues there, I hope that this inquiry will be positive and will allow the Spaniards to get out of some doubts and to know the housing policy, since it seems that the first thing you have done has been to 'occupy' that portfolio that belongs to another member of the Government, which shows that yours with the ocupation is already part of a bottom-up sport that you practice every day, even within the Council of Ministers ocupating powers of the Socialist Party itself and the President of the Government. [[Applauds]] Look, Mr. Vice President, are you or are you not going to include the regulation of rental prices in the future housing law? [[The second vice president of the government and minister of Social Rights and Agenda 2030, Iglesias Turrión, makes affirmative gestures]] The question is simple, and if we look for the answer in the documents that refer to the question to date, with the signature in addition to the President of the Government, that answer would be yes, but as they deny it from the bench of their own socialist partners, I think it is important that you tell us here what is going to happen. We are talking about that government agreement of 2019, the agreement of the General Budgets of 2020, and since last week, the adoption by the Council of Ministers of the general guidelines of the Sustainable Development Strategy. And as you, all of you, strive day by day to stage deep differences in the coalition - as both members of the coalition call it - we would like you to tell us what the road map is, because you have it perfectly defined. And it is nothing other than sowing chaos and legal insecurity in the housing market, for what? In order, with that chaos and legal uncertainty, to justify the intervention of this market. Demolition works that are already lining up their third year and that are now accelerating in an important way. You are like the protagonist of a short story by Gabriel García Márquez, who surely you know very well, in which a woman - you would be that woman - dawned with a thought that something very serious was going to happen in the village. His son went to play pool and, after failing a very easy play, what he confessed was that his mother's concern had troubled him. The winner of the game laughed, went to his house, where he told his wife, and she went out to buy meat and decided to buy double because, if something serious was going to happen, better be prepared; they were already intervening in the market. In the butchery the voice is heard and there comes a time when all the people are waiting for something very serious to happen, and therefore the activity is paralyzed; therefore, we paralyzed the market. At that moment, you start to hear that it's very hot, and although it's always been very hot, now it's said that day is warmer, why? Because you're interfering in the market. And so a moment of such tension is reached, that all the inhabitants are desperate to leave, and the people begin to be dismantled. Therefore, the market is dismantled and investors disappear. And one of them, lest misfortune come to fall upon what is left of his house, set fire to him, and all the people follow him, that set fire to all his dwellings. And that's what's going to happen, to end you saying: I already said that something very serious was going to happen, while you are the one who causes that chaos and that legal insecurity. [[Applauds]] You want to set the housing market on fire, but I also have to tell you that so far what you have not achieved is that the data backs you up, and what you need is that there is more tension. As the most Bolivarian Zapatero well said, the one with which you have such a good relationship: tension is what interests us, and in the case of housing too, but it goes slower, because what you had not calculated is that in society you are not yet quieting down the message that something serious is going to happen, with which more tension, more wood, Mr Vice-President. To show that it does not exist, there is the CIS of the month of February, in which, to ask what is the main problem that exists in Spain, I have to say that the Spaniards have placed the housing in position 27, behind the economic crisis, the COVID, unemployment, education, the independence of Catalonia, the functioning of democracy or even the crisis of values. Of all these problems that the Spaniards do, you do absolutely nothing, and many of them, by the way, are within their competence. And for the record, what I also have to say to you is that 27.7% of respondents think that the price of housing will fall, and that most of these respondents - by the way, that the Socialist Party is paying attention - are already confessing Socialist Party voters, and some of your voters. But what you have clearly is that there is a unique opportunity to speed up the process so that the housing market can intervene, and just these general guidelines of the Sustainable Development Strategy adopted in the Council of Ministers recognize that. There is a phrase that gives them: cultural battle. Take advantage of the pandemic situation to prove that you are dying without housing. Yes, take advantage of, take advantage of the pandemic, take advantage of people's death and people's suffering to tell them that without housing they are engaged in death, for what purpose? With the aim of changing the culture in this country, with the aim of intervening a market. And, frankly, Mr Vice-President, this is the most indecent policy exercise we have had in recent years, because taking advantage of the pandemic is not exactly a very decent thing. [[Applauds]] And how do you achieve that goal of manipulating society to direct your pain and frustration at this time towards ideological goals that you set in relation to housing? For that same report clearly sets out the road map, and be careful because it is going to sound like you all, it is already under way. First point, to support and not penalize or pursue the okupation. Second, respond to the preventive battle against octopus. Third, to pursue the large housing holders, even if they are retired with their savings in pension funds. Fourthly, to assess the expropriation of uninhabited housing from the state level, although the Minister of Housing has just denied it, and finally, to eliminate all kinds of tax incentives, among others. A report, by the way, awarded to your finger, as you very well know, with a minor contract, in which curiously the other two offers were withdrawn - how curious - so that a collaborator of yours would be the one who carried it out. But, frankly, for this result, this report could have been perfectly done by Pablo Hasel and we would have been free of charge to all Spaniards. And as much as you try to do with your staging of partner disagreements, you with the PSOE, the PSOE with you, do not fool anyone because this route is agreed, approved and is already underway. First, the support for octopus by this Government. Initially in an indirect way, not resorting, for example, to the rules of the Government of the Generalitat, and then without changes and openly in that Royal Decree 1/2021 that you have also otupated to the housing portfolio, through the consumption portfolio that you have assigned. We have already told you that this line, the resources of unconstitutionality that this parliamentary group has formulated, has been answered. Secondly, they also have the line and the process of limiting rent prices, which we want them to explain to us today as well and explain how they will do, when, where and why. In this they are still in that initial phase of indirect support. Why? Because they have not resorted to Generalitat Act No. 11/2020 as a government. We also tell him that this parliamentary group, we tell the Spaniards, is doing that task that the Government does not do, submitting that unconstitutionality remedy to also stop that attack on private property. Thirdly, this week they have made progress in their policy of forced evictions. Because that policy of evictions what you are proposing is to defend the ocupation, and you know it very well. He has had no objection to recognizing it, writing it, approving it and even at this parliamentary seat confirming it. What we ask is: where is the decree that had to be passed before January 22nd in order to compensate those non-discharges that arose in the royal decree? Because this part must also be protected. And correct me if I am wrong, but the only great real estate holder that exists today in Spain, with all his rights safe, is AENA, of public ownership, and therefore dependent on the government, and I have not yet heard anyone from Podemos calling them vulture funds, even though they are attacking all those tenants who are in a difficult situation, and for whom you do not have any measure. [[Applauds]] And last week, the government entered this initial phase of tacit support for the expropriation of housing with the announcement by the Social-Communist Government of the expropriation of 56 homes for seven years, paying the owners a price of 40% lower than the market price. A measure that the Social-Communist Government of Balearic Islands has described as a pioneer, while also saying that it has been studying for many months, but when we see the results of it, frankly it should not have been studying for many months. But that gives you the same, because the only thing that matters is not whether the measure works or not, what matters, as I said at first, is the cultural struggle to end up changing the housing policy and end up changing the economy of this country, which is what you want, against the free market. On the other hand, what needs to be considered is what happens, because while expropriating in an autonomous community, what is done with public housing? Because there are, for example, 97 social housing units, almost twice as many, which are illegally occupied and nothing is done to recover them. And there are families registered there, yes, who are on waiting lists and who, however, no one protects them. We don't know any of your 20 000 rental housing plans, but what we do know is the 15 000 octopus claims that we already have in this country in the last year and a half. See how they are already analysing and intervening in this market. Don't stop repeating to us every week that we will eventually need a housing law because something very serious is going to happen. We know what's going on. The most serious thing that happens right now to the housing market is that there is a company that demolishes fundamental rights that has a name: Sánchez and Iglesias. And it's an expert company in what? In the destruction of the right to property, legal certainty, the rental market and investor confidence. Mr. Churches, do you know what it takes? Let them get to work, which is what they have to do, and that they fulfil their duties, which is to generate a real public policy, and do not place their obligations on the small owners, who are the Spaniards, who have the right to have their heritage protected. Mr Iglesias, you and Mr Ábalos, the holder of the portfolio, already know that you want to work have few. It can be said that they are an undynamic duo and that they are making very little effort for what the Spanish need.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u127	Mrs. Gamarra, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u128	We recommend that you make a housing policy that will boost the market and not paralyze the Spanish economy. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u129	Thank you very much, Mrs. Gamarra. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs Cepeda. I now give the floor, on behalf of the Government, to the second Vice-President and Minister for Social Rights and Agenda 2030.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u130	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Gamarra. I tell you from the heart, it is an honour for me to be the spokesman of the People's Parliamentary Group to present this question. This reveals the importance you attach to this issue. And I think that today we are going to have a very important discussion here, a discussion that is going to be clearly ideological, and in which it is going to be very clear what interests we each represent. That has enormous value for history and for the Journal of Sessions of this House. I understand that in your intervention there had to be some concessions to a new style, very aggressive, in the competition with the extreme right, but I recognize that you have been elegant. It is elegant to quote nothing more and nothing less than García Márquez, being García Márquez who was, to accompany a defense of property rights and a conception of housing as a market good. [[The Lord]] Here we are basically discussing two different concepts and interests: who thinks that housing is first and foremost a market good and who think that housing is first and foremost a right. As you pointed out, ladies and gentlemen, last Tuesday we adopted in the Council of Ministers a document of general guidelines for the elaboration of the Sustainable Development Strategy and, indeed, that document recognizes a clear truth: we will not ensure the effective right to decent housing in our country if we fail to meet the objectives of Agenda 2030 and those known as the SDGs. From here, Your Honor, I'll tell you very clearly. Of course, what the document of general guidelines on housing policies points out, of which this vice-president is going to be a proposer - moreover, it is what the agreement of government between the Socialist Party and the United Nations We can and also the agreement to carry out the General Budgets of the State - is going to be reflected in the housing law that we are currently negotiating within the government. Of course I do. In addition, this law is extremely urgent and has to materialize soon, and I say here that I trust that we can have it ready this same month of March. He's gonna let me read something, see if it rings. All Spaniards have the right to enjoy decent and adequate housing. The public authorities shall promote the necessary conditions and lay down the relevant rules to give effect to this right, regulating the use of soil in accordance with the general interest to prevent speculation. This is not a socialcommunist or Bolivarian text, but article 47 of the Spanish Constitution, Your Honor. And even if there are those who strive to say that we live in a full, perfect, wonderful democracy, all the people who are listening to us know perfectly well that the right to housing, as set out in the Spanish Constitution, is not fulfilled in Spain; and that in Spain there is a housing emergency; and that this is due, Your Honor, to decades of a speculative and anti-social housing policy, and an excessive power of the real estate owners, who have pushed an inefficient, rent economy, in economic terms. Each euro that goes to a family to pay an abusive rent is one euro less that goes to the bakery, goes to the hairdresser's or goes to the bar in the neighborhood. The recipes of you, ladies and gentlemen, we know them, are the same ones that defend real estate employers. You say that what needs to be done is to increase the offer. The problem is that reality shows us that this is a lie, Your Honor. Far from this, the promotion of housing in The Property and Mass Construction has served to enrich a few, but not to solve the problem of housing emergency that our homeland has. It is precisely this model that has prevented the development of our welfare state and that Spain is a more advanced economy at the level of other European countries. I give you data, there's no ideology here. In the first decade of 2000 Spain dedicated itself to building, without any control, houses. For years we built more than Germany, more than Italy, more than Britain and more than France together, all these countries; that was their model of economic development. However, this bet on the construction ball did not, under any circumstances, result in affordable housing for citizens. On the contrary, after the 2008 crisis there was a wave of evictions of people who could not pay their mortgage; at the same time Spain had the largest number of empty homes in Europe. [[Mr. Mariscal Anaya makes negative gestures]] These are data; these data you cannot deny, even if you deny with your head: 3.4 million empty dwellings. This means that a third of the total empty dwellings in all of Europe are in Spain; one third of all empty dwellings in Europe. And, far from learning any lesson from that crisis, as soon as a resurgence of economic activity occurred, the same liberal voices came out again, in quotes, that could trigger construction and real estate speculation again in our country. In 2018, the barrier of building a hundred thousand new homes was again overcome in a single year; magnificent. Did the construction of all this new housing mean an expansion of the social housing park? No, no, Your Honor, the opposite happened; the construction of social housing in Spain collapsed dramatically, decreasing by 90% in the last ten years. Did the construction of hundreds of thousands of homes serve to increase supply and lower prices, as you say, and the rest of the spokesmen of real estate power? No, ladies and gentlemen. Data, data, data. Between 2015 and 2020, rents not only fell but increased by more than 50%, reaching peaks in the Valencian Community by an additional 68 %, 60 % in Catalonia, 57 % in Madrid or 56 % in the Canary Islands, among others. Data, data, data, data, versus ideology. The problem, ladies and gentlemen, is that the housing market in Spain is controlled by real estate oligarchies that generated a mortgage bubble, first, and then generated a rental bubble. It is a minority that is not composed of the working people who own some housing and have it for rent, but by banks, large speculators and investment funds. Data I'll give you, Your Honor. The housing records of small owners, those who own one or two properties, have fallen by 37% since 2015; while one in three homes registered in Spain, since that same year 2015, belong to large owners, banks or investment funds. In fact, a vulture fund, known as Blackstone, has already become the main landlord in all of Spain. And against this minority of speculators are the Spaniards; 38% of Spanish families have to devote more than 40% of their income to rent. Do you know what that is, Your Honor, devoting more than 40% of your income to rent? All the tenants and tenants to whom their landlords, many times - I insist, big speculators and vulture funds - have told them that they have to pay 200 or 300 euros more a month or, if not, that they go to the fucking street; families that have members in unemployment or migrant families or single-parent families, 80% of whom are headed by women. Tell those Spaniards, to those millions of Spaniards that housing is a market asset and that they ignore what the Spanish Constitution says. And let us not talk about the situation of young people, who have already experienced two economic crises in a row, of whom 40% are unemployed, 32% say they feel very sad and animally exhausted, and 83% still live at their parents' house. Tell the Spanish youth that housing is a market property, Your Honor. Does the regulation of rents work? Let's give examples. There are rental regulation mechanisms in Germany, in France, in Italy, in Denmark, in Sweden, in Austria, in the Netherlands, in Switzerland, but I will put you a lot closer: Barcelona. There has been a rental regulation mechanism since September 2020; a rule for regulating rents in stressed areas that is beginning to demonstrate their effectiveness. You say that the regulation of rents does not serve to reduce prices. It is false - data, data, data -: in Barcelona the price of rent in the last quarter of the year, with the regulation already in force, was reduced more than in the rest of the year 2020, and it was further reduced in the regulated areas than in the non-regulated areas - data -. You also say that regulating rents causes a decrease in supply. False: Barcelona has increased the number of rental contracts in the regulated areas, while it has fallen into the unregulated areas. Faced with their lies at the service of real estate owners, data, data, data, data. We also need, Your Honor, to give a boost to social housing, we need a housing rehabilitation plan, and it will allow me to stop for a moment in the evictions, and I will be very clear, crystal clear. In this country we have lived for years, and we continue to live, episodes of institutional violence against families that should make us feel ashamed, Your Honor. The new housing law has to put an end once and for all to this situation, and ensure that there is never again an eviction of a family in Spain without a housing alternative, and the public administrations have an obligation to guarantee that alternative. [[Applauds]] Your Honor, no matter how big the pressures of real estate owners and their political and media branches, be assured that I will work to ensure that the constitutional right to housing begins to be fulfilled once and for all in this country. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u131	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mrs. Gamarra Ruiz-Clavijo. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u132	Mr. Vice-President, the truth is that you are absolutely right that you and I are defending absolutely different things, and you are getting a little burgled, because data, data, data, is far from the ideology, ideology, ideology, that you liked a while ago. [[Applauds]] Look, you and I are defending very different political models. This party, the People's Party, what it defends is the person, its freedom, and we have been able to demonstrate that, at more freedom, there is more equal opportunities, and that is the key, and you want intervention, which means less freedom and less opportunities for people. He likes egalitarianism, not equality, and that's a big difference between you and me; you have no doubt. Mr. Iglesias, what we like is the market economy, yes, because we like the Constitution. You talked about an article. I could read you a lot, because there are a lot of you who do not share, we could start with number 1, of the parliamentary monarchy, and so we could be talking long and stretched out, but I will remind you of 33, which recognizes the right to private property and inheritance; remember that. It also recognizes the social role of these rights, which will be defined in their content in accordance with the laws, yes, but no one - nobody, Mr. Iglesias - can be deprived of their property and rights but for justified reasons of public utility or social interest. [[Congratulations to the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress and to the second Vice-President of the Government and Minister for Social Rights and Agenda 2030, Iglesias Turrión]] This does not mean that you do not have to carry out social policies and that the Spaniards have to carry them out by responding with the heritage you want to expropriate. But in addition to that same article, what it says is that compensation is due, and still you in the expropriations that you have already raised have not even collected how you are going to compensate all those Spaniards - data, data and data -, which you owe all those Spaniards. [[Applauds]] But I'll tell you more, when I talk about the free market, about freedom of enterprise, what are we talking about too? Yes, sir, of the Spanish Constitution, which establishes economic principles that govern us, and that is why we defend it, it is not that we have come from another planet to defend something different, Article 38, read also, because it is also very important and very interesting. And here is the key to why there is so much urgency for that law: because you do not like freedom of enterprise in the context of a market economy. Constitution, since you like it so much, and I am glad that you like it, but I invite you to practice it completely, and to begin with, and in your capacity as second vice president, defends the sovereignty of this country, which your party did not do yesterday in the European House. [[Applauds.-A honourable Member: Very well.]] That is a good principle so that we can build this country together, but not by intervening in an economy like ours. And just lessons, because this party has led this country, this party has been at the forefront of this economy and, do you know what we have done, and we have not done it alone, but with the Spanish? It is the fourth economy of the euro. [[Applauds]] That is the key, and that is why we believe that its path is the wrong one, because this is going to attack that we are that country of progress that brings people forward and has a job. You're on the hot walk me, misery for people, and that's what we don't want. We want everyone to have opportunities, also through employment. See - data, data and data -: in the ERTE, for example, today, March 10, the ERTE of January - data, data, data - is paid. Perhaps there are many of the reasons why many people cannot cope with the payments they have to make. Work there, because it'll solve people's problems. You have spoken of Germany, let us go to the data, data, data, because it is true that you have not invented anything, but when already some models have started and are failing, what you have to do is take note, do not move forward, but you continue because - you make it clear and say it in those guidelines - you have another goal, which is to change the policy and the cultural framework, and for that you take advantage of a pandemic that, I repeat, is indecent to do so at a time when there is pain and when people are suffering. And that's what you've come to approve. But let's go to Berlin, as you wanted data, data and data. The great failure of the Berlin mirror: 60% less offer and more expensive floors. There you go. Read it well, study it carefully, because if you have already failed others, what you do not have to do is fail you, because the problem is not that you fail, it is that Spain fails and we suffer the Spaniards. To you this - don't worry - will not affect you at all, because it gives you the same; you will continue to be fine, you will have your home, you will have your nanny, you will have everything, but we have to talk about people, and for that we have to think that your policies, which yes are ideology, what they are doing is that there are many people who will go through it even worse. And since you wanted data, consider what is happening in Germany, with a government, specifically in Berlin, socialist and communist, and you will see that these measures are not lowering prices, they are rising, and there is no more supply, there is less supply. By the way, work a little longer, because in order for public housing to exist, what they have to do is not expropriate it, but set in motion that public housing that from the public authorities must be promoted, built and put on the market so that people can really access it. But I'll tell you one thing...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u133	Your Honor, you must finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u134	I'm finishing up. Without a functioning economy, without employment in this country, I'm sorry to tell you, it won't work if the Spaniards have access to housing. Tell 40% of Spaniards, young people who are unemployed, those women who are suffering more unemployment than men or that wage gap, which has been accentuated since you are in government: data, data and data. Thank you very much. [[Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, on the floor]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u135	To conclude the debate, the second Vice-President of the Government and Minister for Social Rights and Agenda 2030 has the floor on behalf of the Government. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u136	Thank you, Mr. President. Your Honor, I think your speech is clear enough so you don't have to lose your elegance. You can be elegant in the parliamentary rostrum, Your Honor. When you are not, surely in the future you will not be able to expect them to be elegant with you. [[Rumors]] Believe me, education is a virtue, Your Honor. There are many people who surely wonder why you repeat the arguments of real estate employers permanently, why you are so clear, so explicit repeating the arguments of very precise business interests. There is a document that helps to understand why: the papers of Barcenas. I will read you some names that appear as funders of your party in the papers of your box B: Luis del Rivero, Sacyr Vallehermoso; Juan Miguel VillarMir, OHL; José Mayor Oreja, FCC; Manuel and Guillermo Contreras, Grupo AZVI; Alfonso García-Pozuelo, Constructora Hispánica; Juan Manuel Fernández Rubio, Aldesa Constructions; Joaquín Molpeceres, constructoras Licuas y Coarsa; Antonio Villela, constructoras Rubau; José Luis Sánchez Domínguez, Grupo Sando; Antonio Pidal, constructora Bruesa; José Antonio Romero Polo, firm Romero Polo; Ignacio Ugartetxe, Urazca; Ramón Aige, constructora Copisa-Soriga; Camiló José Alcalá, Cyopsa-Sisocia. All these are builders who appear in the papers of Barcenas, which are currently being judged at the National Court. [[Applauds]] Of course, seeing this list is perfectly understood that you are opposed to regulating the price of housing and defend that the solution is to build more housing in the country of Europe than more empty housing has, because you are at the service of the great builders, who have financed them for decades and who paid them their headquarters. You, Your Honor, are all bought. [[pointing out the seats of the People's Group in the Congress]] [[Applauds]] And you know what? Too bad you're not the only ones who are bought. Some people who are listening to me will wonder why there are media powers that reproduce exactly the speech, the same as the People's Party and the real estate bosses do. Let us remember what is the property structure of the main media power groups in Spain. Regarding the Mediaset group, among its main shareholders are the vulture funds BlackRock - as I said before, the main landlord of Spain -, Fidelity, Insco, Adelphi Capital, JP Morgan or Sungrow; of the Atresmedia group, on its board of directors are the Bank Sabadell, JP Morgan and different investment funds; Prisa Group, its main shareholders are investment funds such as Amber Capital and banks such as HSBC, Santander or La Caixa. I know they're gonna blow me up for saying what I'm saying here. [[Rumors]] But you know perfectly well, just like me, that the payer is in charge. If it is investment funds, vulture funds and large builders who pay the party's bonuses, those who pay their headquarters, those who finance a party and those who are in the ownership structure of the great media powers, let's say from the parliamentary forum the damn truth: You are bought and the media powers are bought. [[Applauds]] And despite the enormity of the powers we face, from the Government of Spain, from the Vice-Presidential Social of the Government we are going to defend the Spanish Constitution and we are going to defend the rights of millions of Spanish families who need a government in this country once and for all to understand that housing is not primarily a market property but a right, Your Honor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u137	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] - THE CITIZEN'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, TO THE MINISTER OF THE INTERNAL, ON GOVERNMENT POLICY IN THE FIELD OF PRACTICES TO THE NEXT COUNTRY, AND ON THE TRANSFER TO THE SAME AUTONOMOUS COMMUNITY OF COMPETITION IN THE FIELD OF CITIZENS. [[File number 172/000082]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u138	Urgent questioning by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group to the Minister of the Interior on the Government's policy of bringing prisoners of age closer to prisons near the Vasco Country, as well as on the transfer to that autonomous community of powers in prison matters. Mr Cambronero Piqueras has the floor for his defence.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u139	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Good morning, minister. We urgently call upon him today for the rapprochement of long-term prisoners to the prisons of the Basque Country and their vicinity, and we must do so urgently, as I have already said, because, if we wait any longer, there are no longer more prisoners left for him to move. You are treading the accelerator of the apisonator, apisonator of the rights of the victims, above all. You have a record not only of speed, quantity and infamy. They are the government that has brought the largest number of prisoners to and around the Basque Country, and we have had fourteen-year-old governments, listen. The politician long ago made the magistrate forget, Mr. Marlaska. It's been a long time since you've been big, Mr. Great-Marlaska, alone Marlaska. I will begin by addressing the socialist bench, which are the ones that allow these misdemeanours. You, ladies and gentlemen, blindly obey a leader, also installed in the lie, and share budgets and therefore project with the heirs of Batasuna and all those who work to destroy the country. I honestly wouldn't sleep at night, even though none of them are looking at me. By the way, Mr. Marlaska, what were you thinking when you set up the ape show? Don't you think it is a very relevant symbol in a symbolic act - worth redundancy - that several associations of victims of terrorism and none of the presidents who fought against ETA came? Don't you think this performance filmed and signed by 'productions' Redondo was over? Indeed, instead of designing these media shows, they should devote themselves to working, for example, to transposing a directive that will make us pay fifteen million euros in fines that depend on your portfolio. I also want to acknowledge the work - as I am in this rostrum, I have the privilege of being here - of my colleagues, national police, and mossos d'ésquadra fighting daily against the violence of radicals who have taken advantage of the words of encouragement of a third of the government - the worst third, by the way - to cause irreparable damage. Thank you, comrades, for your magnificent work. Look at the minister, his government partners honour - yesterday they did - criminals; we, heroes. And this week the right thing is also to pay tribute to all women. Many groups have done so and I would like to join, but especially in this area, women national police officers, civilian guards, prison officials, local police, military, security guards and all those who, with their daily efforts, are part of the very important task of providing security for all of us. In addition, these women are often excluded from the tributes of the left. Behind the IPU shield, minister - I should know - there is one person who protects us: you do not know if he is a man or a woman, and that is the best example of equality. Turning now to the matter, the fair thing, speaking of long-standing prisoners, is to start by reminding all the victims of terrorism, all of whom, in addition, sit in the seats of this House, and I want to show my respect and my admiration for the integrity that these victims of terrorism have by enduring the presence in this House of a political group that is a direct heir to ETA's political arm. [[Applauds]] Teresa, Antonio, Jaime, José, Teresa, a lot of strength. [[Applauds]] I also remind you, Mr Marlaska, that while you crush weapons, at the same time - that is, without cameras - you privilege the murderers who have used them. I remind you that your PNV partners have revealed in this parliamentary seat their pact with Bildu, the pact of infamy, which consists, and I quote literally - I quote - in 'five a week' - I close quotes - five approaches of ages every Friday for their payment, in support of the budgets. The next step is the transfer of health skills to the Basque Country - we all already know it, and I don't even ask it, because we take it for granted - so that the privileges of ETA prisoners are managed from there. Look, Mr Marlaska, the policy of dispersion was established in a government of the Socialist Party with Enrique Múgica and Antoni Asunción. Ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE, who has seen you and who sees you! The Spanish society has managed to defeat ETA, but there are still more than 370 unclarified crimes, and the incentive of rapprochement, among others, depends on the possibilities of solving it, for which it should serve. The rapprochement of prisoners, which I do not share, is for those who repent, forgive, collaborate with the justice and denial of the murderous gang, not to give it to anyone as payment for their political support; nothing to do with that protocol that they sign by default, at five a week. There are more than 160 elderly prisoners who have been transferred, of whom more than thirty are involved in blood crimes. It is necessary today to remember your words, Mr Marlaska, saying that the approaches would be minimal. Good luck! I do not have time, unfortunately, to allude to every case of rapprochement in which the memory of the victims has been betrayed, but I am going to quote some for the terrible of each of them. José Antonio Borde, known as Putxa, an age that killed at least two civilian guards and sentenced to seventy-eight years in prison: close. As a national police officer, I'm disgusted. On January 30, 1998, a young councilman from the beautiful city of Seville, my city, named Alberto Jiménez-Becerril, and his wife, Ascension García, returned home after dinner in the city centre; there a cowardly murderer named José Luis Barrios shot the councilman and his wife, and both died. Today that murderer enjoys the closeness of his family, and in this House the sister of the murdered, Teresa, sits. I can't imagine, Teresa, your pain and that of your family. We'll always be with you. [[Applauds]] Last week they approached the Basque Country to the murderer of socialist Fernando Buesa Blanco and his escort, the ERTZAINA Jorge Díez Elorza. Have you heard or read Fernando Buesa's family members? I recommend you do it, minister, and, if you can, empathize. Another terrible case has been the rapprochement of Gregorio Ordóñez's killer. This, if possible, is more cruel and bloody because it was made against the unanimous criterion - minister, unanimous criterion - of the treatment board of the Castellón prison. What's your excuse? I'm asking for an explanation. But I'm not telling you to explain it to me, explain it to your family. In addition, there is the curious case that in budgets - I found it rather curious - the prison in Martutene has been released on many occasions to make a comprehensive reform, which I do not say I do not need. Today we know that many of those ages are going to be moved to that destination. Casualty? I don't think so. What a vast memory you have to feed on what happened during the dictatorship and how short to negotiate with the heirs of Herri Batasuna some budgets! Minister, as a magistrate who was you at the National High Court, is well aware of the cowardice and cruelty of ETA killers. It is also - I imagine, it should be - that today they are its budgetary partners. Are you comfortable? It's hard for me to believe. For me it is a betrayal of the victims, and I have to call it by name; for me it is a betrayal of the victims. In addition, they are victims on which our democratic model has been built. Another matter that needs to be clarified, talking about prisons - I have to get the matter out - is why they still do not recognize prison officials as agents of authority; I do not understand it. Why? I'd like you to answer me, because it doesn't cost you a euro. Since I entered this House I have defended this collective, which is also mistreated by all, and I do not understand this attitude of your Government. Have the prison officials done anything to him? These men and women - also women, ministers - face daily aggressions, limit situations in which their lives are endangered, and they do so from the most absolute abandonment and without material or legal means for this and continue to suffer such abandonment. Solve it now. Having said all this, I return to the reason for the inquiry, Minister. You have been an important agent in the fight against terrorism in our country, which makes this betrayal more inexplicable to me. Saving enormously the distances, you and I have been on the same team for some time; I, in uniform, a uniform that soaks up the blood of the comrades killed by ETA, a uniform that, with the greatest dignity and justice, recognized the sacrifice and the enormous work of all the national police and civilian guards and the defeat of the terrorist gang ETA; a uniform that tattoos on the skin of all those who have had the privilege of dressing it - and that I will re-dress, if it fits more proudly, I hope not at their orders -; a uniform that led me to learn to look under the car every day, every morning, to change itineraries, to tend that uniform inside the house so as not to point out the family. Minister, we were taught what an ETA bomb smelled like: bitter almonds, in case you're curious. That's been the life of many agents. I have not lived in uniform the worst times of ETA, but I do know them well through the many testimonies of companions who have come out alive from that terrible situation. Therefore, make excuses, I tell you that nothing justifies this betrayal of the victims. Minister, I, if I were you - I am not, of course - would use myself thoroughly to investigate the 379 unsolved murders. Park the sprinkler and get to work on it. And now I am also addressing the whole House: Why don't we set up a commission of inquiry to solve these terrible crimes? We could help a lot, we're here to be helpful. Minister, to finish, I'd like you to admit the damage you're doing. I don't trust him very much, but I also tell him not to hide himself in anything or anyone. You, and only you, are responsible for what's going on. In my opinion - and I am also saying this as a lawyer - the law should not serve as an alibi for injustices, but rather the opposite. Mr. Marlaska, those of us who learned to look under the car every morning and suffer and we mourn with all the attacks and murders of ETA cannot stand idly by the whitewashing of a political group descended from the political apparatus of ETA, and even less by the humiliation of the privilege of approaching the killers, all as they continue to humiliate the victims with unworthy shows. I look forward to your reply, Minister, because, frankly, you have already given them all in all colours. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u140	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] I now give the floor on behalf of the Government to the Minister for the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u141	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Cambronero, let me tell you - and I think the victims of terrorism will understand this week, because, as you said, before yesterday was Women's Day - that it is a pride for me to call myself Marlaska. I'll tell you in two words. I was born Great of first name and second, Marlaska; I was lucky to have as mother the best woman, the best person, most hardworking, and taught me the feminist values: responsibility, work. [[Applauds]] This implies that I decided not to put surnames - reality is reality - but simply that they were at the same height. And that is what I intend, that every human being should always be at the same height and be treated with the same dignity. Therefore, it remains a pride for me to continue to call me Mr. Marlaska. By entering into the content of your inquiry, this is an urgent inquiry, when I have been talking for quite some time - as I will now refer to - about the subject of the transfers, and not only has he told me about the transfers, but he has done a bit of a whirlwind. Your Honor, two questions in this regard, dozens of oral questions in Congress and the Senate, questions in appearances in the Commission and thousands of written questions are the set of initiatives to which you should refer to answer your question if I applied the quote of a former President of the United States who said, yes, naively - and I open quotes - 'Let those in the front party have the monopoly of all filth' - I close quotes -. But, after reading this misconception to which you call interpellation, after years having to endure falsehoods, slanders and lies, not to my person anymore, but to the set of institutions and judges of prison surveillance, I have to tell you that your interpellation has really been - with the same sincerity and since after two and a half years I must already use other terms - pathetic, even I would say that miserable, when trying to combine and reconcile certain elements; miserable for what it implies. Your Honor - I have already told Mrs Jiménez-Becerril, Member of the People's Party, in her question - if you say that there is or can be a pact between EH Bildu and the Government for the rapprochement of prisoners with the aim of failing to comply with prison law, I have to say it and repeat it clearly: That is absolutely ignorant. But if you are convinced, and you also have proof of that, you should not present - as I also told Mrs Jiménez-Becerril - a parliamentary initiative, you should take it directly to a court and accuse me, or the entire government; I simply do not discharge responsibilities, and the government is collegiate and I am very proud to belong to this government. You should take me, the prison judges, the prosecutors, the treatment boards - so much so that you care about prison officials - to the prison directors and many of their employees on a prevarication basis, because we all act and work on the prison policy. Or what do you think? And, above all, if I may, you should be concerned, because such a pact would entail a serious breach of the rule of law. Your Honor, you accuse the public employees of prison institutions and the treatment boards at parliamentary level, you accuse of looking at prison surveillance judges elsewhere. What do you think this country's civil servants are? What do you think about your neutrality? Do you think they can look the other way? You, as a public servant who is, have you looked the other way? I haven't done it in thirty-three years. Do you also accuse judges of prevaricating? I think many of those public employees will appreciate you taking advantage of the second intervention to clarify what you are accused of or to apologize to them. And it is not worth saying that no, that it is the government, that it is the Minister of the Interior. I say again: there are specific responsibilities. And if not, it is to ignore the law, to ignore the Prison Law and the powers of each, because one issue is to establish prison policy, criminal policy, which is obviously government policy, and another is the application of the law, which is a very different issue. And you have to be very serious about these matters. And as I see you're lost - let me tell you - I'll remind you of three things. There is no collective treatment for any group of prisoners. What does this mean? Something very simple: the treatment is individualized, as I have been saying all these years. In other words, the system of classification of inmates and the different programmes provided for in the prison regulations are inevitably personal. The second issue that I refer to is that treatment and classification are dynamic, i.e., subject to constant review by prison staff, as well as by treatment boards. This review, as you can imagine, can show a positive evolution from the inmate towards reintegration, which is the constitutional purpose of the prison system - Article 25.2 of our Constitution - in which case the treatment boards, under judicial control and with the participation of the Ministry of Public Prosecutions - I repeat this and ask you to point it out, Your Honor, under judicial control and with the participation of the Ministry of Public Prosecutions, can decide the progression of degree and, if necessary, the transfer of prison. The third issue, therefore, is that all transfers are based on treatment and grade progression, are fully in line with current legislation and have been communicated to victims, which was not done before, when 150 were moved with the active terrorist gang and on other issues. That is, in all cases we are talking no more or less than that it is being complied with, as could not otherwise be the Prison Law. Mr President, if this letter of inquiry is miserable in its content, as we have just seen, it is also pathetic in some of its approaches. Allow me, Your Honor, to refer to a sentence in the text of the inquiry - abrocomillas -: 'This massive approach coincides with the foreseeable transfer to the Basque Country of powers in the field of prisons'. Your Honor, the transfers are in accordance with the law and are not massive, and the transfer of the penal institutions as well. I do not know if you know that there is an organic law of these General Courts, which derives from the Constitution, specifically from its Title VIII and from the first additional provision, which is also integrated as a parameter for the Constitutional Court in the block of constitutionality, that is, serves to interpret our legal order; I give you the data, for revision. It is the Organic Law 3/1979, of the Statute of Autonomy of the Basque Country, which in its article 10.14 assigns competence to the Basque autonomous community of management - not prison policy -; do not confuse society, do not confuse citizens. What are you trying to insinuate by raising doubts about the transfer of competition? Would a Basque prison system give favourable treatment to older prisoners, different from the rest of the state? Don't you know what the competition is, as I just said? If you suggest that we should not trust the Basque institutions, let me tell you that you are mistaken and that there is a serious lack of respect for professionals, such as, for example, the Ertzaintza, to which you have previously referred, that over these four decades of self-government has been an example of professionalism. I'm not quite sure what you're implying, Your Honor, but I invite you to clarify. What I do know is what you are asking, that we do not comply directly with the Constitution or the legal system. But I'm telling you, if you want to do that, you're wrong about the government, because it meets the law. I'm done, President. Your Honor, having noted that your question is full of falsehoods, that you have little constitutional legal rigour and that this urgency, for the reasons I have explained to you, is more than questionable, I would like to invite you in your second intervention to apologize, not to the Government or to any parliamentary group, but to all the groups to which you have failed to respect: prison judges, prosecutors, public employees of penitentiary institutions, even public employees of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country. I think I recognize an ennobles error, for institutional decorum. And I say to you that it is not worth arguing that it is the Government and this Minister of the Interior who are faced with all these circumstances, because that is as serious as saying that all public officials do not have the competence and professionalism necessary and precise for the development of public office. That is the most serious thing a citizen, a parliamentarian can say, and, if he is a public official, it is much more serious. Your Honor, many of you invoke President Macron. I invite you not to do politics like Le Pen does. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u142	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Cambronero Piqueras has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u143	Thank you, President. I was going to thank you, Mr. Marlaska, but I'm not going to. You've called me pathetic, miserable, ignorant, and you've followed those lines. Now I am sure that this inquiry is more urgent than ever, because of the way in which you are trying to defend yourself; rather, to shield yourself in institutions. Miserable is his performance at the head of this portfolio, and I tell you with respect, truly; but miserable is that performance for the cases I have commented on, for which there are present in this House and for all that he is doing, not only in the field of rapprochement of prisoners, which is the worst. [[applause]] The emergency? You have spoken of why it is urgent, because there are practically no victims left that you have not insulted with this approach of prisoners. Pacts? He has them, the PNV made it clear, I don't say. I open quotes: five a week - close quotes -, five a week, his covenant with Bildu. You use the law as an alibi for your electoral business, Mr. Marlaska. Really? A magistrate, a former magistrate? Unbelievable; I really don't give credit. I beg your pardon? I have come up to this rostrum for you to ask the victims, who are also sitting here. And what you've done is insult them. [[Applauds]] Look, how did you know where you were going because you also have the field of predictability quite open, I have rescued a document from the hemeroteca, 2014, Basque autonomous television, Basque public television: the presiding magistrate of the Criminal Chamber of the National Audience - you -, to speak nothing more and nothing less than of the approach of prisoners - topic risky for the magistrate, for the politician I see no -. The interviewer's first question - and it's the only one I'm going to mention - is it time for ETA prisoners to approach the Basque Country? The judge's answer: This question is a political issue, independent of the judiciary. Political. Curious! [[Applauds]] The judge you were tells the politician that you are today that this is a political issue. You shield yourself from public officials, from the magnificent work you do, use it as an excuse, and oh! Your yesterday's ego is taking away your reason, not me, yourself. Well, you're the politician today and the magistrate who was is accusing you of more than a hundred and fifty approaches to prisoners. You're responsible, you say so yourself. By the way, most of them have done so without regret, without collaboration with justice, without reparation for the damage and without asking the victims for forgiveness, for pure electoral business. I confess that I have seen the whole interview and, frankly, Mr. Grande Marlaska, if this is what politics does in a good lawyer and a magistrate, it scares me. And I'm shocked to see that process. You were pointed out by ETA - many times you have said it - and I tell you: this makes your performance at the head of this ministry even more unworthy. As a member of the special services of the body under your orders - as you have said, I am a public official - I tell you that you have no moral height to direct this portfolio, I say it to you convinced and with respect. Minister, read my lips: this is treason, you can dress it as you want. [[Applauds]] I'm going to end up proposing a empathy exercise just, very simple as well. Think for a moment that the person you love most is murdered cruelly, cowardly, just for one reason: to defend the just. Good. Now think that while your pain still wakes you up every night, as is happening with the victims here, the killer enjoys the privilege of being close to his family, he could even cross the street with you. It's a empathy exercise. Don't think about it anymore, that's going to happen, it's already happening and you're actively participating in it. If I were you, just as you have asked me, I ask you: ask forgiveness, you have more reasons than I, believe me, but it is clear that I am not like you nor you are like me, thank God; among other things, because you have not only changed justice for politics, also because you have changed sides. Thank you very much. [[Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, some of the Members of the European Parliament, Mr Citizens and Mr VOX, stood up.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u144	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] To conclude the debate, the Minister of the Interior has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u145	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Cambronero, thank you very much for your intervention. First of all, I think that being predictable is a value and not giving bandages for life, but being very clear about what principles, values are and always acting according to them. Secondly, a political issue, as you refer to me. Do you hear me a little bit when I told you earlier that one thing is prison policy and another is prison management? Do you listen to me when I refer to prison policy as a criminal policy, which corresponds to the government, but always in parameters of legality? He tells me that prison policy is established by the Government; of course, but in terms of legality and that is what officials, judges, prosecutors, prison officials and treatment boards are for, in their case, to control legality. See the difference? And you are using it and you use it in a twisting way, with easy emotions. Deterrorism, of all that reality I can talk to you enough, perhaps in the development of the second inquiry I can talk to you a little bit more about it. He noted, therefore, that not only has he not apologized to any of the groups on whom he has made serious accusations, but he persists in his mistakes as I have explained or tried to explain to him. Honestly, if you believe that judges, prosecutors, public employees of penitentiary institutions or public employees of Basque institutions do not apply the law or allow legality not to apply, let me tell you that you have a way of understanding the work in the public sector that is truly offensive. I have been in the public arena for thirty-three years and it is offensive to millions of professionals in this country. Frankly, I do not understand your obsession with competing in radicality with VOX, seriously deteriorating Parliament and democratic institutions. But now it has caught my attention - I don't know if you have noticed - that they have applauded you ostentatiously and even raised those of VOX. [[Rumors]] I'm worried, it won't bring anything good to you if you don't think about it. [[Applauds]] Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to reiterate to you that in Spain, as it could not otherwise be, the law is being enforced. The treatment of inmates is carried out because social reintegration must be sought with all inmates. I have told you before, and I reiterate this, Your Honor: individualized treatment that determines the system of classification and the centre where the sentence is served, constant review of the internment and adoption of measures of progression of degree or change of center if progress is observed towards reintegration and decisions taken by the treatment board under the control of the judge and the prosecutor's office, as well as communication to the victims in all cases, which was not done before. And it's done in competition. The transfer is provided for, as I have previously said, in Article 10.14 of the Statute of Autonomy of the Basque Country. I still do not understand - let me say this from the utmost respect - your insistence on disrespecting, as I have said, prison professionals and public employees, prison judges, among them. Nor do I understand his lack of rigour, in which, wanting to patrimonialize the Constitution, he asks us to violate it. I repeat it to you again, asking us to breach it. I believe that these debates must be taken seriously by something more than rumors and, of course, by something more than by the need to place falsehoods in order to continue to disturb something that should unite us all. Tomorrow will be the European Day of Victims of Terrorism and the commemoration of the defeat by the Spanish democracy of ETA terrorism. The Spanish, Mr Cambronero, deserve you to explain once and for all why you refuse to recognize the victory of the State and the Constitution over violence. Today I have still heard that ETA was not defeated. I repeat to you again, ETA is defeated and is defeated by the rule of law, by the whole of Spanish society, by all public officials, State Security Forces and Bodies, judges, prosecutors, and, above all, by the integrity, by the talent, by the courage and by the commitment of ethics, of public ethics, of all victims of terrorism. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u146	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] - OF THE VOX PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, ON WHAT MEASURES THE GOVERNMENT IS GOING TO TAKE TO STOP HUMMING TO THE VICTIMS OF STATE TERRORISM. [[File number 172/000083]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u147	We turn to the urgent inquiry by the VOX Parliamentary Group, on what steps the Government will take to stop humiliating the victims of ETA terrorism. Mr. Alcaraz Martos has the floor for his defence. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u148	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. A preliminary question. Minister, I will rise every time a Member speaks on behalf of the victims of terrorism and supports them, whatever colour they may be. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]] I've done it and I'll keep doing it. That dignifies the speech of those who get the applause of the victims we have stood up for, something you would have to learn, because, seeing their behavior in this House, if they treated the opposition with a minimum of respect - as you respect and treat, with almíbar, the protera of Bildu - things would be better. [[Applauds]] Minister, since my family was murdered, after the mourning, I have proposed in what remains of my life to continue to fight for the memory, dignity and justice that my family and all the victims of terrorism deserve, but I never - never - imagined that I would have to find episodes of betrayal of those who were supposed to be on our side. [[applause]] I remember hours, days and weeks sitting at the National Court, accompanying in this case the victims of terrorism because the murderers of their families would be tried. And you know what, Minister? We hoped that you would appear because it was a guarantee that justice would be done. What was not to be expected with the passage of time is that this inquiry was addressed to you and that you are a partner in the delicacy of the Socialist Party in anti-terrorist matters. [[Applauds]] Today I could have expected to have any member of the Socialist Group and even Podemos here as Minister of the Interior. The very same Pablo Iglesias could have been Minister of the Interior with these policies. Rufián, even if he's not here, could also have been Minister of the Interior. Moreover, any of Bildu's five profanes who are there could have been Minister of the Interior with the anti-terrorist policy of this government. [[Applauds]] And if I had to go back to the National Court today, don't think we were going to wait for you in the room as a victim's advocate, you would be on the bench of those who defend the terrorists. That's your site, which belongs to the view of the policies you're carrying out. You know, like me, what the victims of terrorism lived in the 1980s. You have dealt with a great many summaries and know what the families of the civilian guards, the national police and the military have suffered. He knows how difficult it was to live together in the Basque Country, especially for his children, not only because he was an ETA target, but because some classmate, a teacher, a baker or anyone could target the children of the State Security Forces and Bodies. You know that in those years the victims had to endure the jokes that were made every time a civilian guard was killed. His children, the children of the national police and the civilian guards, in the Basque and Navarra autonomous communities, walked through the streets, watching the tributes made to the ETA terrorists and the paintings for those who wanted to kill him. The flag of Spain could not be displayed at the risk that at least they could beat you. You know that. We have to endure the presence of ETA's political arm in institutions for too many years. And all this while, in parallel, the Socialist Party sat down to negotiate with the killers of our families. The account I have presented to you, Minister, is not an account of the 1980s; it is a very current one. Look, these paintings are not from the 1980s, these paintings are recent, with you as Minister of the Interior. [[shows different press clippings]] The tributes to ETA terrorists are not a thing of the past; this is very recent, with you as Minister of the Interior and increasing by about 60%. The jokes, the songs or the exaltation of terrorism are a thing of the past, Minister; it is the most current present. And you are responsible as Minister of the Interior and with you you are giving up. And from his Government there are parties that encourage this criminal, that defend him and, in addition, that promote money and street terrorism to defend a criminal. [[Applauds]] The pact with ETA's political arm is not a thing of the past. Look, minister, this is your government, the ones that are sitting with the protera; the ones that you judged at the National Court, the ones that you condemned, precisely. Here we have the defenders of the murderers of our families, and here your government is sitting. As for the approaches to the Basque Country, you have had little left; you have already approached almost 60% of the ages, five by five, in tribute to each of the proetaras who are sitting here; and you are also responsible. This is happening now. [[Applauds]] And about the presence of ETA in the institutions I'm not going to take any pictures of it, because if you get up and turn around you'll see that we have them here thanks to their policies. You, minister, now tell me - and you have told my fellow Member - that the approaches are in accordance with prison law. Look me in the eye. You lie; you, minister, lie like a bellacone, and you know it. [[Applauds]] You know that the Nanclares route was created by Zapatero to seek the uninterrupted rapprochement of ETA terrorist prisoners. You know that it was agreed that it should be done without generating social alarm; and you know that precisely the rules are being breached. Victims of terrorism are not being informed and the victims of terrorism have not been pardoned. And if not, I bring victims here and put them in front of you to declare you lying. You know that it was also a prerequisite for that approach to work with justice. Minister, will you now tell me how many terrorists have collaborated with justice to avail themselves of those prison benefits in progress of degree, rapprochement and release? Are you going to tell me? For I say unto him, Zero; none hath collaborated with righteousness. [[Applauds]] While there are nearly four hundred unclarified murders, you are approaching and rewarding terrorists who could and should be clarifying to bring justice to those nearly four hundred victims of terrorism. No terrorist repents when he is at liberty, absolutely none. And those who say they're sorry, say it when they're in prison, as long as they have prison benefits. To top it off, we had to put up with the victims of terrorism that sleek spectacle where President Sánchez said he had destroyed the weapons he had delivered ETA. They lie again. The weapons that were destroyed were weapons seized by the Civil Guard and the National Police, especially in the 1980s and 1990s; weapons that cost many of them and their families their lives. Therefore, this macabre show of weapons destruction only serves to give you publicity. We do not want weapons, Minister; what we want is for each and every one of the terrorists who took the weapons to kill our families, and to carry out their sentences in full. [[Applauds]] You say that if we have proof that this is part of a pact - and you have told the deputy of Citizens and you have also told Teresa Jiménez-Becerril - that you will bring him to justice. Well, look, this group has brought him to justice; and, as president of the Voices against Terrorism Association, we have also brought him to justice. In this House, the VOX Parliamentary Group has also called on justice to bring to light the record of the negotiation with ETA, because, if that record of negotiation with ETA really does not violate the law and there is no illegality, what are you afraid of? Why don't you make the negotiating paper with ETA public? What are you afraid of, Minister? Minister, when the Socialist Party at the end of 1999 proposed to agree with ETA a road map, you know - moreover, it is reflected in Mikel Antza's road map - that a start date had been set for the process and a final date, 2000-2012, but neither the Socialist Party expected, nor the pro-Trans of Bildu nor ETA expected it to be that for the first time in history the civic rebellion flagged by the victims of terrorism from 2004 to 2008-we really are very few who follow with that flag - managed to delay the negotiation process with ETA and the payment to ETA. And today you have an equal situation, because not a few years ago you neither expected nor expected to see the outbreak of VOX in the institutions. That is why I say to you that with this intrusion we are going to be a hindrance to ETA's interests and its interests. On the day that the Spanish give us enough majority we will bring to light the minutes of negotiations with ETA, we will apply the Law of the Parties, we will expel those protera outside the institutions and we will recover the memory, dignity and justice that the victims deserve, because for many years, minister, ETA decided who killed, who lived and who did not, and today, thanks to you and your partners, ETA also directs how we live the victims of terrorism and the Spaniards. You will continue to approach the prisoners from five to five, in tribute to the five prophets. Minister, if you want to pay a real tribute to the victims of terrorism, step aside, but not five in five, all at once, and look for some socialist who can replace you and who can dignify your trajectory, if you find him. Thank you. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. Resignation! Resignation!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u149	Ladies and gentlemen, please stay, if you can. [[Applauds.-Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] I give the floor to the Minister of the Interior. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u150	Thank you very much, Mr President; ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Alcaraz, I say again that, if you understand that we do not enforce the law, that we violate the Prison Law, take me to court, but you can't lie about that. Legally I could be here talking for a long time, but I have simply explained something to you that you have said and that is false, and then I will go to my intervention, but from a legal point of view I will tell you that for the transfers requested by the treatment boards you need to ask for forgiveness, and you have said collaboration; no, sorry. That's for the third degree or parole, which is something very different. If we follow a technical-legal approach, you will have me all the time precise and necessary, but that is a falsehood, Mr Alcaraz. That's why I'm telling you that we're in compliance with the law, and that's why, as Mr. Cambronero said, I'm predictable. I regret that, instead of taking advantage of your speaking time, Mr Alcaraz, to propose alternatives or measures to strengthen the construction of the public memory of the victims of terrorism, you have spent twelve minutes divvying between good and bad Spaniards - even some PSOE Members must have certain characteristics to be Members of the Socialist Party - and in throwing bubbles and slanders. In short, do what you do with these issues - nothing new, on the other hand - not acknowledge that democracy has defeated terrorism and try to find a gap in a story that your party is not part of at the expense of denigrating others. But you will see, Your Honor, next March 11th, that is to say tomorrow, is the European Day of Victims of Terrorism, and it is no coincidence that our country was chosen as its seat, thanks to the recognition of the victims of the various terrorist demonstrations that have occurred in Spain and, above all, to the recognition of the protagonist role of the different groups of victims in the defeat of terrorism etarra, as I said before, first, and in the shaping of public memory, then, but always with the support of the different governments that our country has had. Mr President, despite the fact that the speech by the VOX Group, in line with what is common in extreme right-wing groups, has been an example of the use of victims of terrorism in a partisan way, I said that it is certainly an opportunity to discuss what is being done, as well as future lines of work, and in this scheme I want to focus my intervention and have a constructive stance. Ladies and gentlemen, the 2030 security model, which the Government is proposing for this parliamentary term, has among its areas of action the guarantee of coexistence - I repeat, the guarantee of coexistence -. One of the pillars of this great area of action is - I will repeat, Mr de VOX - the eradication of hatred, which involves, among other things, measures to protect the victims of terrorism; yes, the eradication of hatred also involves the protection of the victims of terrorism. Between 2018 and 2020, in the field of ministry we have made progress in several aspects that I would like to highlight. First, the launch of the project Direct Testimony of the victims of terrorism in 225 educational centres, where more than 14,810 students participated; also participation in international forums to share Spanish experience or the protocol of action in the event of a terrorist attack, among many other measures. We have also encouraged from the Government the indispensable work of associations and groups of victims with subsidy lines, highly valued by the ministry, and which have increased in the general budgets of the State of 2021. That is working with associations and by associations of victims. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, despite measures and a policy towards the victims of terrorism, with great roots in our country, it is essential to take on two main challenges in order to be able to improve the construction of a public memory that remembers the protagonist role, as we have said, of the victims in the process that led to the defeat of terrorism. Ladies and gentlemen of VOX, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group, you should all explain to the public why it is so difficult for you to assume, as I have said throughout today, that democracy has defeated terrorism and you continue to strive to cloud any aspect that reminds us that ETA no longer exists and that democracy was much stronger than violence. I believe that the Spaniards deserve an explanation and that you owe it to them, so you invited your honor to do so in your second speech, Mr Alcaraz. He said that the construction of public memory has two major challenges ahead. First, ladies and gentlemen, to complete the effective implementation of article 59 of Law 29/2011, on recognition and comprehensive protection of victims of terrorism, which mandates the public authorities to promote educational plans and projects on memory and, although we have made great progress - before mentioning the participation of thousands of students in 225 educational centres - it is essential to deepen this task with the implementation of teaching materials that promote students' knowledge of the history of terrorism and promote values of rejection of violence and respect for victims through didactic knowledge. Ladies and gentlemen of VOX, ladies and gentlemen of the Group of the European People's Party, I do not know whether there will be any change - I would like to know - in order for you to reply in your second intervention - if these educational units will also promote their parental pin, as they are already doing in any educational activity that promotes the eradication of hatred and democratic values. You can go to schools; others can't go to give democratic values. The materialization of these teaching units is the result of the joint work of the Ministries of the Interior and Education and Vocational Training, and we have already addressed the education advisers of the autonomous communities to inform of their publication, which is available in all Spanish languages. Soon the Minister of Education and I will make a public presentation and start their promotion to form part of the educational collection of all educational institutions in our country. Along with this outreach work, the second major challenge arises from the need to eradicate - what you were talking about - tributes to terrorists. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the tributes to terrorists are rejected by the entire government and by all democratic political forces, because they attack society as a whole - which saw how terrorist violence meant to end the free exercise of our rights and freedoms - and above all because it humiliates the group of victims of terrorism, which suffered directly from the sinister, unreasonable terror. It is true that we have made significant progress over the past few years. The rise of terrorism and the dignity of victims are protected in our legal system through article 578 of the Penal Code. However, although we from the Government are constantly bringing possible criminal conduct to the attention of the Public Prosecutor's Office or the judiciary, we know that criminal charges have difficulties in their implementation, difficulties which your colleagues know of. In this regard, I remind you of the ruling of the Constitutional Court 112/2016 and the practice of the National Court in relation to the need that such conduct, in order to be criminally punishable, requires the creation of actions or expressions that pose a certain risk to people, because we live in a rule of law where there is freedom of expression, and freedom of expression is not to listen to what we like, it is, unfortunately, to listen to what we do not like, what we fear, as long as it does not directly incite violence, hatred or discrimination. In that sense, ladies and gentlemen of VOX, you propose to tighten the Penal Code, and I say to you that it is a mistake. The Criminal Code has a legal instrument today that is more or less appropriate to act in the face of punishable conduct, without prejudice to the need to reflect on it. Moreover, hardening will not improve its effectiveness. However, there is a path that his members of the People's Party did not explore during their last seven years in the Government, which is to act administratively in the face of events and conduct that humiliate the victims. To this end, the Government - I have already said this in the parliamentary seat, in the Commission, I remind you of my appearance on 7 February last year on the general lines of my department, and more recently in the Senate - is betting and is working on the amendment of Law 29/2011, to improve the protection of victims of terrorism by incorporating a title that regulates conduct and sanctions that, without constituting the criminal type, can be effectively addressed in the administrative way. This reform is part of the Government's policy plan, adopted on 8 September, and is designed to build a triple consensus. Consensus, first, among the victims of terrorism, as it is formed by the contributions that the different associations and collectives have already made in this respect; consensus, second, between the different departments and agencies that are currently preparing and issuing reports on the reform, and finally, as it cannot otherwise be, parliamentary consensus between the different groups when referred as a preliminary draft law. With this rule - I am finishing, President - the Government has a very clear intention: to prevent regulatory loopholes that cover the holding of acts that are unacceptable in democracy and that deserve institutional firmness, social rapprochement and political condemnation. The defeat of ETA, the defeat of terrorism has been - and I am sure we agree on this - the great triumph of constitutional and modern Spain, which on many occasions taught the world the roots of democratic values in our society. But we would not have defeated ETA, as I said, without the effective action of the State Security Forces and Corpses, autonomous police officers and, also, local police - which we often forget - and without the application of the law and the instruments of the rule of law, but, above all, we would never have ended terrorism, Mr Alcaraz, without the value of society as a whole and without the example of the dignity that the victims of terrorism give. That dignity is undoubtedly the great legacy upon which to form and build our public memory. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u151	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Alcaraz Martos has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u152	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, not a word on the minutes of the negotiation with ETA. In addition, you are government, you can have access to the negotiation record with ETA if you really had an interest. What's going on? Are you afraid to know what your government has negotiated with those murderers you put in jail? Are you afraid, Minister? For dignity, for justice, make public the minutes of negotiation with ETA. As long as you do not make them public, you have no credibility in this House. You tell me that the law in force is being complied with. Well, look, I'm going to go on January 29 - not too far - when a prisoner is progressed in second degree against the criteria of the treatment board, against the director, the medical officer, the psychologist, psychiatrists, educators, etc. That progress was still made in the second degree of this terrorist. Therefore, you were not shielded from the officials, because the officials must be identified and supported, any official, but not all, and if you do not remember Villarejo. [[Applauds]] You're talking about dignifying the victims of terrorism. Well, look, in the Senate, just a few minutes ago, your party, the Socialist Party - you talking about tomorrow is March 11th, the Day of Victims of Terrorism, of all victims of terrorism - has vetoed an institutional declaration because you did not want to include in it that Spain has suffered the terrorism of ETA, Grapo, Terra Lliure and FRAP. That is why the Senate has vetoed that institutional declaration. It scares you to mention the terrorism of ETA or Terra Lliure, because you are partners of those protera and those who in your day supported a terrorist group in Catalonia. [[Applauds]] On parental pine, VOX does not need to carry the parental pine at the moment with the subject of the victims, because it is already put by the Basque Government itself. On 23 January last year, the Basque Government itself had to reverse this initiative to educate young people about the history of ETA precisely because of the controversy that had been created, because they wanted and want to continue indoctrination of young people in the Basque Country and Navarre to whiten ETA. That's where we'll put the pin and the wall that's needed. [[Applauds]] And I would ask you, who is very close to Sanchez, to remind him that - since you remember the terrorists who committed suicide in prison, who gave them their condolences for the first time in history - every month a civilian guard or a national police officer commits suicide on average and I have not yet heard in this House or in the Senate any condolences from the Government for each of the members of the State Security Corps and Forces who commit suicide every month. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]] Therefore, if you speak of dignifying, begin to dignify those who have watched over your safety and mine for so many years. You, Minister, with your policies have taught that the path of violence and crime is profitable, because you are willing to whiten it, and you have whiten it, as you have done before. Don't talk to me about associations, help and so on, because I know him perfectly well. If you really knew the victims of terrorism one by one, that would be the last thing you would ask. What I would ask would be for justice to be done, something that you renounce. And I'm going to tell you why you quit: because you listened to your prosecutor Count-Pumpido, who said you had to stain your robes with the dust of the road to negotiate with ETA. I don't know if you're going to stain your toga, because I think it's cost you 1800 euros the running tape you bought your ministry so you don't get out of there - you can run out of tape, you don't need it - but I'm going to tell you one thing: if the prosecutor Count-Pumpido said you had to stain your toga with the dust of the road, you've stained yourself with too much blood. Thank you. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. Resignation! Resignation!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u153	To conclude the debate, the Minister of the Interior has the floor on behalf of the Government. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u154	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Alcaraz, I am sorry... [[Rumors]] I'll be brief, don't worry about those who don't want to listen to me. I regret as a citizen that the far right, formerly within the People's Party, today VOX, marks the tone in anti-terrorist politics of the leaders of the main opposition party. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group leave the Chamber.-Several Members say goodbye with their hands.]] I see they wanted me to run the clock so he wouldn't talk. I'm deeply sorry, ladies and gentlemen. Mr President, it is a pity that, after an intervention in which I have put to you, Mr Alcaraz, concrete measures and clear lines of action aimed at improving the situation of the victims and ending with acts of heightening terrorism, your answer is nothing in the proposals, insulting the tone and personal disqualifications towards everyone who does not think like you. I see that was the urgency. This is parental pin. [[Applauds]] I think it is good to use terrorism as a weapon of political confrontation. But while you, the far right, are talking about yours, we are talking about everyone, about how we are going to strengthen the protection of the victims of terrorism by incorporating educational content into schools. By the way, he hasn't answered me, and I think there's no interest, why they want to impose parental pin on initiatives like educational units. [[There's applause in the hallway.]] I'm going to end with a very clear question because today we've had... [[applause]] I don't think I'm going to use the five minutes anymore, Mr. President, but I'm going to end up with something very clear. We've been asking these questions for almost three years, two of which I've had today. I have endurance for this and for much more. [[Continue the applause in the hall]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u155	Wait a minute, Minister. I appeal to the services of the House to the Members who have just left to remove them from the corridors.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u156	This Government also has endurance for this and for more. Besides, it's our obligation. What I do not like is that, under the control of the Government, which is one of the most relevant institutions in a rule of law, anti-terrorism policy is disguised and used from a partyist perspective. The question from the VOX Parliamentary Group, which has left the room, was: What does the Government intend to do to avoid humiliating the victims of ETA? I'll tell you once and for all. We can all have different points of view, but I am predictable, as Mr Cambronero said today - and I thank him -. I do not like to speak personally - although everyone here talks about their personal life, their history, etc. - but I think the time has come, after an intense day to some extent, to tell them that this one who speaks to them went away from their land, from Euskadi, from the Basque Country, to which he loves, because he and his husband understood that the pressure that was socially causing ETA terrorism caused him not to make up for living in our land. Now we could continue to live on our land; we would not have thought of it. And we lost personally and professionally. My husband came out of work - although he doesn't come out - and opposed here. We didn't come to foundations or anywhere; it was a vital personal matter. [[The lady]] After the time, I went to the National Court; obviously, I wanted to go to the National Court. I worked as many have worked-just because professionally it was my destiny - against ETA terrorism. I was ETA's target; not only did I work against ETA, but I was ETA's target. There were several plans to attack my person, one very developed. I feel almost guilty because there are many who are dead and I am still living and I have become Minister of the Interior of the Government of Spain. As Minister of the Interior, I continue to fight, together with the State Security Forces and Bodies, against all forms of terrorism, against all forms of hatred, against the whole exercise of violence. Against all that I keep working, and that's not forgotten. How am I or the government I belong to going to humiliate the victims of terrorism? Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, stood up.- Various Members: Bravo!-A Member of Parliament: Not everything goes well.-Applause from the Minister of the Interior, Grand-Marlaska Gómez, addressed to the Socialist Parliamentary Group]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u157	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] MOTIONS CONSEQUENCE OF URGENT INTERPELATION: [[CONTINUATION]] - OF THE CITIZEN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, ON THE MEASURES TAKEN BY THE GOVERNMENT FOR THE REDUCTION OF THE COST OF ELECTRIC FACTURATION OF THE ECONOMIC SECTORS MOST AFFECTED BY THE CIVID-19 CRISIS AND THESE WITH HIGH STATIONALITY AS AGRICULTURE AND TOURISM. [[File number 173/000055]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u158	We continue with the motion resulting from an urgent call by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group on the measures taken by the Government to reduce the cost of electricity billing for the economic sectors most affected by the crisis of COVID-19 and those with high seasonality, such as agriculture and tourism. For the author group of the initiative and for the defence of the motion, Mrs Martínez Granados has the floor. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group return to the Chamber.- Rumours.-Various Members: Out! Get out!]] Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u159	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, in the next few days the first state of alarm was declared, accompanied by the confinement that changed the daily lives of all Spaniards and that almost completely paralyzed our country's economic activity. Then, when we were all witnessing moments that we recognized were difficult to manage, the Government began bringing in different royal decree-laws to implement measures that somehow cushioned that situation. Among them was approved in this House the Royal Decree-Law 11/2020, a royal decree that, as I told Minister Ribera in the inquiry two weeks ago, contained certain measures that seemed very useful for sectors that were completely paralyzed. Among them we find a simple, but very successful measure, with a direct impact and which the sector welcomed with great pleasure, which temporarily minimized part of the many fixed costs of self-employed people and small businesses. As I said in the interpellation, I am referring to measures to make electricity supply contracts more flexible for self-employed people and businesses. Different sectors saw this as an opportunity to reduce the fixed costs of electricity that they had to incur during the cessation of their activity. Having not begun the presentation for the processing of this royal decree-law as a bill, where we could have introduced new measures to improve it and expand it, especially measures like these that were welcomed willingly and were useful, we present an inquiry that took place two weeks ago and today we bring this motion with two objectives that we believe are important. One, to re-enable the possibility of such a change of power contracted without penalty in sectors that are still paralysed or that continue to have restrictions in their activity arising from the crisis of COVID-19. Two, the third wave of many sectors still keeps them paralyzed and unable to develop their activity to receive sufficient income to contribute and cope with the fixed expenses they have during their activity. Although many sectors have already been able to reactivate their activity, others have not, and that is why we believe it is important that this motion should go ahead, because it would solve a small part of the many very high fixed costs that have many sectors. Existing legislation does provide for the right to a change of power once a year without penalty, but we believe that, under exceptional circumstances, exceptional solutions continue to be sought. We know that in many cases they are difficult to sustain over time, and as Minister Ribera told us, they are not measures to allow them to expand for a long time, but we also understand that there are sectors such as nightlife or as a large part of the hotel sector that cannot reactivate their activity, and for them there are still exceptional circumstances that do not allow them to carry out their work. Therefore, in this motion we request that the possibility be re-enacted that companies can modify their contracted electrical power without any penalty provided that there are restrictions arising from the crisis of COVID-19 and provided that the state of alarm remains in force. It should be noted that these specific measures relating to the cost of electricity are also directed at other sectors of the Spanish economy, such as agriculture or tourism, which face significant changes in their seasonal or cyclical consumption needs throughout the year in terms of electricity, so that they cannot benefit from these expected power changes and are forced for long periods of time to cost a higher contracted power than they really are using. This overrun, caused by the lack of flexibility in the regulatory framework, results in a severe deterioration in the competitiveness of companies when they are not viable, especially at times like this, in times of economic crisis, and has a direct impact on the prices they pay as consumers. That is why we have included in this motion measures that minimize this burden, which is already difficult to bear, as I say, when there was no such profound economic crisis, but which is now becoming even heavier. We therefore believe that it is time to take action to resolve these problems. We call for regulatory regulations to be adopted as soon as possible to allow access contracts for irrigation for our farmers to have two different powers over the course of 12 months, which was already provided for in the final fifth bis provision of Law 24/2013 of the Electrical Sector of 26 December. This, in particular, has been recorded on several occasions: in the Reconstruction Commission, in the handling of Royal Decree 5/2020, in the budgets. Since it didn't come out, we thought we should try again to solve something that is being demanded by the sector and that is fair. We have also called for this possibility of different power recruitment to be extended over twelve months for sectors that we know are seasonal. Also, that a report be prepared to identify other economic sectors with this high seasonality in their energy demand and to study the technical and economic feasibility of hiring these two powers. We believe that it is time to develop a report that detects this seasonality in other sectors to take action also for these power changes. As you have seen, ladies and gentlemen, these are measures that can help many sectors that really need it now more than ever. We have received amendments from several parliamentary groups in Congress, so I would like to thank all the speakers who have wanted to contribute to this motion. We are working on a compromise to try to collect these contributions and, above all, not to lose the primary spirit of this motion, which is to help certain sectors such as agriculture and sectors suffering from this seasonality, but, of course, the sectors, companies, SMEs and self-employed that are still suffering from the crisis of COVID-19 right now. Thank you all. We will present the transactional shortly, when we have it complete. I really hope that this motion will receive your support, that they will vote yes, because there are many sectors that will be able to benefit - our farmers, hoteliers, etc. - that we believe is important, because now more than ever we need our help. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u160	Thank you very much, Mrs. Martínez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] In order to defend the amendments put forward by your groups, the Joint Parliamentary Group - which will also fix its position at this time - intervenes, first of all, Mr Guitarte Gimeno.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u161	President, ladies and gentlemen, we believe that this motion seeks to adjust the conditions of electrical power to the actual times of use of the electricity service and, consequently, the billing for those sectors that have a marked seasonality, such as agriculture and tourism. We live glued to the agrarian world, to the regants and to the rural and mountain tourism in its different modalities. They are sectors that worry us, they are sectors that we feel as our own. Rural tourism companies, for example, are now paralysed; perimeter closures in cities, provinces and autonomous communities prevent the arrival of customers, but fixed costs make their survival difficult. But we also have that same concern for the whole domestic economy of all consumers, as well as for SMEs and self-employed people. We are experiencing a time of changes motivated by the energy transition in which legislation is being enacted and, in parallel, a huge deployment of renewables whose effects we must control, also the effects that we can achieve on the electricity bill. We have tabled amendments calling for a general reduction in the electricity bill at home and in businesses, a reduction for all. That is why we have called for very specific measures, for example the VAT measure. Irrespective of whether its general rate could be changed, we ask that VAT should apply only to those concepts of the invoice to which it actually corresponds. We are now seeing that, in a marimagnum of components with confusing statements that make up the invoice, VAT is applied on the same electricity tax, on the municipal network tax, on the payment for the energy efficiency fund or on the financing of the social bonus; on which it is not strictly necessary to charge VAT. We have also tabled other amendments...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u162	Mr. Guitar, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u163	... that seek to give transparency and equity to the marginalist functioning of the electricity market, so that the price paid to producers is not fixed with the last power plant that enters the pool of each hour, that is, that it is not with the price of the most expensive electricity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u164	Thank you very much, Mr. Guitarte. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] In order to establish a position, Mr Mazón Ramos has the floor for the same parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u165	Good morning, Madam President. We agree with the two paragraphs of the motion. The first point is clearly justified by the pandemic and also serves, as has happened in other cases, to refocus the electricity sector in general. And that is why the approach in the second paragraph is particularly interesting, because here, although emphasis is placed on the agricultural and tourism sectors, it should be analysed on a general basis. It seems that the government is in this, they say, but this motion is not enough, because the proposals, even if they are not the same, at the heart of what it is about is to adapt the costs that companies have to their real production, and this flexibility in changes is one of the structural changes that our productive economy needs, because in short it is to reduce the fixed costs and to increase or adapt the variables in their case in order to maintain the costs of suppliers of supplies. Reducing fixed costs is a way of encouraging business initiatives, which is a priority objective today, but we have a very important outstanding subject, indeed, which is to lower the price of light, and in households more than ever, where we are among the most expensive countries in Europe. And, in addition, it took the opportunity to remember that we are still without a satisfactory solution for the electro-intensive industry, which has to compete in the international market and which finds that its main raw material, which is energy, which we have at home, which we do not need to import it, has a cost...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u166	Mr. Mazón has to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u167	I'm on my way. It has a cost that is one of the main handicaps it has to be competitive and to prevent it from ending in relocation.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u168	Thank you very much, Mr. Mazón. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Finally, Mrs Vehí Cantenys has the floor for the same parliamentary group and also for a position.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u169	Thank you, President. I have very little time, I'm going fast. We are very happy to talk about the price of light; in fact, what we need to talk about is the Spanish electricity market, which is highly privatized. The Spanish electricity market is called an oligopoly; between EDP, Viesgo, Endesa, Gas Natural and Iberdrola have 70% of production, 97% of distribution and 86% of marketing. And this affects the price, and we saw it, how Endesa was rising prices in a full wave of cold, and it also affects the service, and we have seen light cuts: in Figueras, in the Font de la Pólvora, in Badalona, in the Cañada Real here in Madrid. Energy poverty, this kind of situation, shows us the direct relationship between energy and democracy. And that is why, because of the number of families suffering from energy poverty, in the Catalan countries and in the rest of the Spanish State, the CUP in the negotiations that are now taking place in Catalonia has proposed and proposes two very clear things: one, a public energy company and the second, that the public management of the hydroelectric plants of La Vall Fosca, which has them Endesa, has ended the contract and continues to exploit them. Climate emergency is a reality and climate emergency is what is called a silent killer, because it kills thousands of people every day and generates poverty, a lot of poverty. And in the face of the climate emergency, we have a responsibility to put radical ecology and resource distribution at the centre of political agendas. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u170	Thank you, Mrs. Vehi. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Errás Pabon has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u171	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Good, to say the least, because today in Spain we are already getting up every morning with 100,000 fewer companies, with almost 1 million people in ERTE, with half a million self-employed people in cessation of activity, with 4 million people unemployed and with a rate of corporate bankruptcy 15% higher than the European Union average. There are already so many sticks on the wheels that this government is putting on our industry, our precious tourism, our very important primary sector and it is such that it is the abandonment of our sectors most hit by this crisis, that it would be unthinkable for someone to vote here today against promoting measures that facilitate flexibility and the way towards our businesses and self-employed. Even the European Union has had to warn us of the massive closure of companies in Spain. The ERTE, of which today this government so presumes, will become imminent layoffs and queues of hunger if the compensations and reforms that VOX has been demanding all this time and that Spain urgently needs to save businesses and jobs no longer arrive. [[Applauds]] In spite of everything, you still do not react at all, gentlemen of the Government. How it is noted that the ministers of this government have no idea what it means to carry out a business and that they have less hours to quote than the assistant of Echenique, ladies and gentlemen. How do you notice it? [[Applauds]] I remind you that the queues of hunger and misery are not in front of the headquarters of UGT or the Workers' Commissions, which, by the way, you have increased by 56% the budget or the Ministry of Equality where 451 million euros are squandered in policies that protect their client networks because, of course, women do not protect them. [[Applauds]] Nor in front of the headquarters of the media in this country, which they water with millions of euros of public money. The queues of hunger are in front of food banks, in front of parishes and in front of social welfare centres, and these queues are getting longer and longer every day. To give an example, Fundación Madrina served 400 families a day before confinement. Do you know how many families they care about today? 4000 families a day, and this Government is primarily responsible for this tragedy. [[Applauds]] Of course, being at the end of Europe's tail in granting direct aid to its companies, we will not be able to reverse this situation. That is why today from VOX we applaud this motion because it is on the right track, we take a step further in increasing that liquidity, support and flexibility that they need. With this measure we managed to enable companies to adapt the contracted power to their peaks of demand, up to twice in a year without penalty, as has well explained the spokesman of Citizens, which is very good for those sectors especially with a high seasonality. Ladies and gentlemen of Citizens, you are making this motion in the agricultural and tourism sector, which is phenomenal, but for the rest of the seasonal sectors you are proposing the preparation of a report identifying these sectors of high seasonality and then referring them to the Courts within a maximum period of one year. And during this year the rest of the sectors that will not be able to benefit from this measure, what do you, gentlemen of Citizens? Will I keep ruining it while you guys finish your report? If they analyze reality, companies don't have a year's margin or the financial lung to wait. As if seasonality were difficult to measure and we needed great experts and supertechnical reports, ladies and gentlemen. Don't worry that I assure you that it is easier to measure seasonality in an economic sector than the gender impact on lighthouses. Don't worry, it's not that hard. [[Applauds]] We already know that VOX is the only party that wants to end waste and superfluous spending, but shouldn't we stop generating more bureaucracy and not waste more resources and more time that we don't have? It is as simple as opening up this possibility of contracting directly to the rest of the sectors that demonstrate seasonality in their energy demand. No need for reports, more immediate, more efficient and simpler. VOX wanted to improve this motion by tabling an amendment urging the Government to approve the toll schedule of the electricity system as soon as possible - of course, in no way after 1 June. This is very important because, after more than half a year waiting for the companies, the government assured in December that it would have it ready for the first quarter of 2021 and has now postponed it again to 1 June, as if the companies had nothing else to do but wait for the government to agree to plan their supply costs. We need this timetable to be adopted so that the measures that we are proposing here today make sense, because how are companies going to consider the hiring of two different powers if they do not know when and how the structure of these tariffs and contracted powers will vary? In short, ladies and gentlemen, there can be no more priority than saving jobs and businesses and being on the side of the Spaniards, who have behaved and are behaving...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u172	Mrs. Borrás, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u173	I'm done. Thank you very much. They have behaved and behaved exceptionally, despite the fact that this Government is ruining them. That is what this parliamentary group is doing here today, putting the Spaniards as a priority, because VOX is the fruit of those who want to have a representation that ensures the common interest and the general well-being of the Spaniards. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u174	Thank you, Mrs. Borrás. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Requena Ruiz has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u175	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. August 8, 2014: The rise of light proves the failure of Rajoy's electric reform and alerts to the risk of more people suffering from energy poverty. Pedro Sánchez Pérez-Castejón. [[Show text]] Day 24 January 2017: Tomorrow the price of light rises again. The oligarchy puts its hand in our pocket and the government does not act. We have to nationalize. Alberto Garzón Espinosa. [[Show other text]] Day 7 of September of 2018: You have to sit down to the electrics and tell them that it is a take of hair the oligopolistic behavior and the rise of light. Pablo Iglesias Turrion. [[Show other text]] From the minister of the branch, Teresa Ribera, I cannot bring you a single quote because neither before nor now has he had a clear opinion on energy. The only thing we know about it when it comes to electricity is its plug in a fraudulent company, such as Isofoton, thanks to the fraudulent help of its friends, Mr Planas and Mrs Montero. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, have you already put the batteries on energy companies? Have you prevented them from putting their hands in the pocket of the Spaniards? Have you really done anything to lower the bill for the light? I'll tell him: No. You're a fraud for the Spaniards. They are the only ones who take the Spaniards' hair, the clear example of frustration and lies. Have the Spaniards been told that during 2020, in the midst of a pandemic, Red Eléctrica Española, a semi-public company of which they abandoned their privatization of others, distributed juicy dividends at the cost of the electricity bill? What do you think they deserve, while electricity demand and production fell by 5.6% in 2020, has electricity interests had record benefits? By the way, have the Spaniards been told that much of these juicy benefits are due to the fact that the government paid a juicy millionaire ransom to enlarge its profit account while they have done absolutely nothing to reduce the bill of light to families, self-employed people and SMEs? [[Applauds]] This motion goes from that, from the tiredness of hypocrisy and the taking of hair to which this government has accustomed us. [[Applauds]] They want to electrify the economy, even that which cannot be electrified, at the expense of families and small businesses; and they do so with the sectarianism of a minister who does not see beyond, who does not believe in freedom or technological neutrality, innovation or the capacity for development of Spanish industry; and they do so with the complicit connivance of Podemos, who enjoys more by watching industries and companies close than by seeing the bill of light lower. From the People's Party we want to support this motion and we also want to complement this motion. We have been working for months on an alternative plan to that of this government that allows us to decarbonize the economy gradually, generating added value and without drama for our industry and our productive sector, such as the commitment and proposal of the Development Framework Plan for the Spanish renewable industry or our proposal to defend the basic industry. We have put forward a clear alternative to sustainable mobility. But, above all, we have proposed a general reduction in the bill for light. And we have proposed this, because in difficult times we must help small and medium-sized enterprises and industry in key sectors for the Spanish economy, such as tourism or agriculture and livestock farming. And you've watered millions to the richest companies. That is why we are presenting non-legislative proposals and legislative proposals from the People's Group, because we believe in an alternative for families, SMEs and farmers. We propose the abolition of the generation tax and propose to remove it by law, to save on the electricity bill between 1500 and 1600 million euros. We propose that the CNMC Circular 3/2020, which yesterday passed by royal decree-law, does not apply, in its time periods, to regents and the agri-food industry of seasonal activities. Because the proposed new calculation system will allow for two things. First, to increase regulated costs and revenues for the electricity grid. And secondly, that fundamental productive sectors, such as agriculture, pay more light by reducing lower billing hours and increasing the most expensive. That is, quite the opposite of what should be done in times of crisis. What a way do these government gentlemen have to shorten oligopolies and control the price of energy! Right? Don't you realize that the Spaniards don't believe their lies anymore? I conclude, Madam President, from this motion can only be expected one thing, and it is supported, together with the amendments of the People's Group and the amendments of other groups, which are very valuable, by those who support the Government. If not all the tweets, all the propaganda of the past...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u176	Mr. Requena, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u177	I'm done, Madam President, thank you. ... all advertising will be misleading and fraudulent, such as the amendments tabled by the Socialist Group, which are a hijacking. If today here is offered the possibility to cut the bill of light, to help the Spanish regents, to the agro-industry, to cut the benefits of Electric Network and to help autonomous, SMEs and companies...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u178	Mr. Requena, I'm sorry, but your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u179	... and to help families, if you vote against it would be what we are used to, a fraud for the Spaniards. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u180	[[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, Mr Renau Martínez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u181	President, ladies and gentlemen, I see that your ladies and gentlemen at VOX have given them time to return to their seats, after leaving in a completely embarrassing way not to hear the words of the minister to whom they themselves had appealed. Is this the concept they have of democracy? Is this the respect you have for this House? [[Applauds]] Mrs Martínez, the motion that brings us to this House today raises a number of issues which, although they may seem similar, have different approaches. No one doubts that extraordinary situations require extraordinary measures and we are certainly living in an extraordinary situation. For this reason, during the strict confinement experienced in the second quarter of 2020, numerous aid measures were put in place for the productive sectors and families and, among them, the mechanism that allowed the self-employed and enterprises to modify, suspend, their electricity or energy supply contracts, or to modify the contracted power during the duration of the state of alarm. He will agree with me that the current situation is not exactly the same as we were living at that time, but we fully understand the purpose of what he proposes in this motion. We also understand - and it is true - that there are sectors that are still being restricted, and we believe that we should assess the possibility of reactivating similar measures, but very well delimiting the scope both in time and with regard to the beneficiaries so as not to jeopardize the so delicate sustainability and stability of the electricity system that we have. That is why we have tabled a number of amendments to your motion which we hope you will be able to contemplate and evaluate. In any case, we believe that it is better to provide these self-employed and self-employed companies with aid that they can use for these supplies or for any other fixed expenditure that they consider, for example, direct aid, such as the EUR 11 billion that the Government will approve on Friday. [[A Member of Parliament: Let's see!]] On the other hand, the second part of his motion raises something very different. In this first part we are talking about exceptional measures, but the second part of your motion is about structural measures that would completely change the functioning of the electricity system. It talks about the seasonality of tourism, for example, and proposes permanent measures. I think that's fighting the symptoms instead of directly tackling the causes. It is true that Spain has a very dependent economy in some sectors, such as tourism, but in order to be a competitive tourist destination, what it has to do is to innovate in order to deseasonalize the supply and not to be chronicled with palliative measures. It is true that we understand that there are sectors that are seasonal by their own definition, for example agriculture. Agriculture is seasonal and nobody questions it, and the measures proposed can make sense. In any case, we also believe that the most appropriate way of proceeding is one that does not benefit only a number of sectors with specific measures leaving others out. We know that energy is one of the main raw materials, fundamental in our present society and that energy consumption is a necessity for any activity. Therefore, any effort to make it more accessible, more affordable, is a worthwhile effort. That is precisely what is being done, what the Government is working on. Mr Requena - always a model of moderation in his interventions - this government is moving towards a new energy system that is clean, emission-free and cheaper, as we have seen this February, where the wholesale price of electricity in this country has been the lowest in Europe throughout the month. And we are doing this by driving renewables, by driving self-consumption, distributed generation, storage, energy communities, energy efficiency. For example, speaking of energy efficiency and agriculture, as Mrs Martínez mentioned in her motion, yesterday a very important aid, EUR 30 million, was approved in the Council of Ministers, to improve the energy efficiency of agricultural holdings, which will have a very positive efficiency by combining it with the other measure that was also adopted yesterday in the Council of Ministers, precisely the new structure of charges and tolls to which you referred, which will come into force in June, which will benefit all economic sectors and which will take precedence over the variable part of the invoice so that the fixed term of the invoice will have less weight. This is going to mean that the contract, the contracted power, and yes, the consumption is not so important. And precisely for farms, together with the national sustainability fund for the electricity system that we will be working on in the near future in this House, it can save up to 20%. These are the measures that will have a profound impact on the savings of energy consumers, ladies and gentlemen. From here, and in conclusion, I would like to appeal to all groups to continue working on this energy transition that we are carrying out, with which we will be able to provide a stable solution to most of the problems proposed in this motion, to which, as I have said, we have put forward a number of amendments so that we can reach agreement. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u182	Thank you, Mr. Renau. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. García. Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor in position-setting by the Basque Parliamentary Group. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u183	Thank you, President. Mrs Martínez Granados, I do not know whether you have reached a compromise with the various groups or with the Socialist Group, but I must of course say that for once we agree with what you have proposed. On the one hand, we all know that the fixed costs of the electricity bill are related to the contracted power and the variables are based on the electricity consumption, for example, when a company for its activity does not have to face those variable costs because it does not consume, but rather the fixed costs on the basis of the contracted power. On the other hand, a consumer can change his or her contracted power only once a year, not before twelve months, but it is true that with the COVID it was possible for the self-employed and enterprises to temporarily suspend their supply contracts or modify their contract modalities without penalty and, also, it is possible for them to change access tolls and to adjust the contracted power to the rise or fall at no cost. For this reason, and with regard to the first point of his motion, on ensuring the survival of the business sector in the face of the COVID crisis, knowing that there are still problems in the recovery of business activity, the proposal to re-enable the possibility that self-employed persons and companies may change their contracted power without penalising them as long as the state of alarm is in force or measures are detected to prevent the performance of their business, which is short-term in our view, would be appropriate, but also knowing that this could have an impact on the collection of the system if the Government has not taken into account the establishment of access tariffs; in short, what we would have to know is whether this change in the collection power, through network access rates, is sufficient to cover the costs corresponding to this revenue line. As for measure two, in order to tackle the structural challenges of the economic sectors with pronounced seasonality, I have to say that they are measures that are not novel because it was already a demand of these sectors with seasonal activity, such as irrigation, agriculture, hotels or seasonal tourism, which maintain their activity only in part of the year. There have been initiatives, but it is true that no progress has been made on this issue. In this sense, I do like to recall that in 2017, the Republican Left Group presented a GNP similar to that presented by you. That is why I say that nothing has been achieved and that I believe it is also time to be able to resume this issue. To that PNL in Esquerra, the Socialist spokesman said that farms, agri-food companies, cooperatives and tourist establishments have a seasonal activity and that, however, the Electricity Act did not respond to the uniqueness of these sectors and for this reason she advocated that these types of companies could hire power according to seasonal needs throughout the year by adopting - and I quote textually - the legislative and regulatory measures necessary to be able to make the contracted power more flexible and adapt. It is true that today the Socialist spokesman has told us that they are setting up measures, and welcome them to do so, but we would also like them to inform us of those measures before the Council of Ministers or their publicity in the press if they really want to have the consensus and agreement of the various parliamentary groups. Although it is true that this GNP for us, in Euskadi, is not a problem, we do understand that this last part should be solved or at least analysed and that these sectors can modulate the power contracted throughout the year by seasonality of production cycle according to their demand needs and prevent this factor from becoming a real brake on the competitiveness of companies with this seasonal activity. We could also agree that we might need to better define what these seasonal sectors are. I think we are working on a compromise in this respect, so we will wait to see if we can reach an agreement and finally fix our position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u184	Thank you very much, Mrs. Sagastizabal. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] The Plural Parliamentary Group has the floor, first of all, Mr Rego Candamil.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u185	Thank you, Madam President. Today Ferrol's region is on strike to demand a process of reindustrialization that guarantees work and future. From here, all the solidarity of the BNG with an absolutely fair mobilization and demand. Our concern about the electricity bill - beyond the business sector, which we value, and about activities such as agriculture or tourism - extends to the whole of society, especially to the popular classes or to the most precarious and vulnerable sectors at risk of exclusion, to those families who have to choose from each other many times to cook or turn on heating. That is why, as an emergency measure, we are calling, in an initiative registered last January, for VAT to be reduced to 4% in the light and all basic services. We know that it is not enough, in fact, we bet to return to the public the electricity sector, which should never have been privatized. Since Galicia is a producer and surplus country of electricity, we defend the public control of our energy sector to put it at the service of the development of our country and our industry, to end Galicia's energy outlay, especially by paying costs...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u186	Mr. Rego, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u187	Finished. ... like transport, which we don't have, and set up a Galician electric fare that lowers the bill. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u188	Thank you, Mr. Rego. Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor for the same parliamentary group. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u189	It seems that the electoral tranquillity is over again. That's what it looks like. [[Rumors]] I start with one thing: Endesa, 1394 million profits last year, eight times more than the previous year. Let's keep the data. In my village, Sweden, a rice town, the harvest begins in mid-September and the activity in cooperatives, in the droughts, ends at the end of November. They can only be changed once, and therefore, all year round they have to pay the maximum power. Endesa: eight times more than the previous year. This is a clear case of abuse. And the People's Party: at good times, green sleeves. We've already claimed it before, long before, years ago, and did nothing even though they had absolute majority. This is a flagrant case of abuse of electricity companies and, therefore, something must be done, yes or yes, so that farmers and businesses can compete on equal terms with other sites. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u190	Thank you very much, Mr. Baldoví. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Finally, for the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Miquel i Valentí has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u191	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Requena, I absolutely agree with what has been said. What happens is that I was blaming him for one thing: if you had made the changes that recriminate the PSOE to do, we wouldn't be discussing that issue because it would already be done. We have long called for the reduction of fixed costs in electricity tariffs because it seems disproportionate to us. This Eurostat chart last year makes it clear that Spain is the third country in Europe with more taxes and charges on light bills, almost half of the light bill is not related to consumption, but it is related to taxes and taxes that directly or indirectly have an impact on that bill. [[shows a graph]] We are far from 35% of France or 20% of Iceland. So what do we ask on the subject we are dealing with today, that we are already going to vote in favour if the initial terms are maintained and waiting to know if there is any compromise. That the tariff models be adapted to the needs of the citizens and not that the pocket has to be adapted to the needs of the electrics. This seems to us to be logical, it seems to us to be a receipt and it seems to us to be justice. Why does it seem like justice to us? Because we ask the citizens, the businesses and the self-employed to endure, but we hold their arms. We ask them to survive, but we do not let them work quietly. That is why it seems to us that it is fair to make life easier for them, to make things a little easier for them, and it is up to us. That's super important, for those of us who believe that everything doesn't have to be public. Because believing that not everything has to be public, forces us to be more demanding when there are private public partnerships such as this. That's why we're betting on that flexibility. We believe that this can improve the lives of citizens and we will support it - as I said - if it remains in the initial terms. Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u192	Thank you very much, Mr. Miquel. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Capdevila i Esteve has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u193	Good morning, President. Almost tempted to give up my time, I only go up to the rostrum to show my solidarity and sympathy with Dona María del Carmen Martínez, to welcome the club of second-rate deputies who put our faith and our hope - often our charity - in getting non-legislative proposals to see how they will then benefit from inventory. We agree - of course - with his motion, which coincides almost ipsis termis with a Republican Left PNL which I had the honour to defend in the Commission on 1 March 2017. So the PSOE and Podemos, in the opposition, voted in favour. You were not in this House, but I would like to remind you that with 32 votes you were against. The dwindling condition of your group I think has made you become and I can only celebrate it. I am also attending this debate, as has been said, with a certain climax seeing the roles exchanged between the People's Party and the Socialist Party, and I will see how we can do it. And above all I count the curiosity of a minister whose assistant entered his office to ask him if Valladolid is written with axe, and replied that yes, of course. The assistant left and the other one said to him: but teacher, how do you tell him that? And he answered, to see where he put it. I want to see where you put it, Mr. Renau. The problem - it has been explained - is the unnecessary cost that many companies that coexist with the temporality have in their electric bill. The solution is as simple as you, modestly we and other groups discovered a long time ago: we changed the contract twice in terms of power. Mr Renau, that has no effect on the sustainability of the system, forgive me. Let's see how you combine the sustainability of the system. The system is robust enough to sustain this financially, and more technically. Why hasn't it been applied in all these years? Well, my question is the police in these cases: who prodest? Who's taking advantage of it? There was not only that non-law proposal, we tried again when there was a change of government and these gentlemen assumed that responsibility. We took that folder with that non-law proposal and with all faith we questioned the new government. Mrs Rivera, the minister, committed herself - she was in that seat - but they did not. [[pointing to the blue bench]] Either they can't or they can't leave them. You are able, Mr Renau, and I congratulate you, to reduce charges and tolls in an afternoon. You really can't do it with this minor issue? I can't understand why. Encourage, Mrs Martínez, and encourage everyone at the second-rate Members' Club. Someday we'll see, that fortune helps patients. Let's see if we can make it this time, before we miss another season. I guess there'll be more chances. Mr Renau has outlined some, and when the Bureau wants we will also have occasion in Royal Decree 11/2020. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u194	Thank you very much, Mr. Capdevila. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. García. Mrs Saavedra Muñoz has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in common.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u195	Thank you, President. Good morning. Spanish companies and families have been suffering for years from excessive, abusive energy costs, which affect the quality of life of people and also the viability and competitiveness of our companies. The pandemic has aggravated this situation and there is no doubt a need for public intervention. The causes of the current electric model are the policies of the People's Party, which, as always, have prioritized the interests of the major operators vis-à-vis those of the citizens and our economic fabric. The consequences we have are a high level of energy dependence, which means more expensive energy and less capacity to intervene on prices. Between 2008 and 2012, the dependence rate was reduced thanks to renewable energy, but the People's Party Government suspended incentives to this industry in 2012, a hacking of renewables that has cost us, among other things, disputes and billions of euros in compensation. And more of the same happened with electrical self-consumption. In the face of its incipient development that led to a decrease in costs, Minister Soria carried out the sun tax in 2015, guaranteeing the business of the big electrics. The PP has always promoted the current electric oligopoly which controls 90% of the market in Spain and which is a brake on innovation and energy sovereignty, as well as higher prices. This is the way to serve the public interest of the People's Party, with which you, lords of Citizens, rule in Andalusia, Madrid and Murcia. But this is changing with the coalition government. The average electricity prices have fallen, the sun's tax has been eliminated, the Statute for E-Consumers has been approved, as well as measures to support vulnerable consumers and the economic fabric due to the state of alarm. In addition, 37% of European funds will be devoted to green investments, which will reduce our electronic dependency and reduce the bill to businesses and families. With regard to the tariff system, we welcome the forthcoming establishment of the national fund for the sustainability of the electricity system and the reform of the charging and toll system that will come into force in the near future. This will bring about a central aspect of the government agreement and lower the electricity bill for businesses and families. With regard to the effects of COVID on business, we certainly support the continuity of the measures that make it possible to modify the contracted power without any penalty to the companies and self-employed affected, but SMEs and self-employed also have fixed expenses and payments that they have to face. In this sense, we have proposed a fund of EUR 8 billion in direct aid retroactively from 1 March 2020 until the end of this year. In conclusion, this coalition government is undertaking the reform of both the energy model and the tariff system to overcome this oligopolistic model and achieve a more rational and fair tariff framework that reduces the electricity bill of companies and families. There are, without a doubt, many shortcomings and our Group in the United Nations We can, will act decisively in all of this. We hope to count on the support of this House for this. Our vote will finally depend on how the amendments are assessed in this initiative. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u196	Thank you very much, Mrs. Saavedra. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Martínez, you interpreted from your speech that you are negotiating a compromise amendment that you will bring to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u197	Yes, President.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u198	Thank you so much. - THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, FOR THE GOVERNMENT TO EXPLAIN THE SITUATION OF WOMEN IN SPAIN AT A YEAR OF THE CREATION OF THE MINISTER OF EQUALITY. [[File number 173/000056]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u199	We continue with the ensuing motion urgent interpellation of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, so that the Government can explain the situation of women in Spain at the one-year anniversary of the creation of the Ministry of Equality. For the author group of the initiative and for the defence of the motion, Mrs Pérez Díaz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u200	Thank you, President. Today, two days after 8M, my parliamentary group brings the only initiative discussed in this plenary on the situation of women in Spain, which addresses, among other issues, access to work and the policies that should be the main objective of the day-to-day work of a ministry that is neither expected nor expected. Ladies and gentlemen, in the debate on the inquiry, Minister Montero asked the People's Party where we were. And I will answer you: we are on the street, in each of our autonomous communities, in our provinces, in our islands, seeing how this country, as always ruling the left, enters a dark path of unemployment, recession and exclusion. Because, ladies and gentlemen, after more than a year of the progressive feminist government, the unemployment figures are devastating for Spanish women: 2273 300 unemployed are the United Nations We can in the Ministries of Labour and Equality. Since the beginning of this legislature there are 437,979 women who were not unemployed and who are unemployed today; there are 47% more unemployed women than men; the wage gap has risen to 21.4%; Spain is the second most unemployed country in Europe and has also fallen ten points in the welfare ranking for women since it ruled the left. This is the result of a government that calls itself a feminist and a fictitious ministry, illusory, sometimes even frivolous, but, above all, harmful to society and therefore to the 24 million women of this country. Leading a ministry is not launching four tweets or four banner phrases or setting up a show. Ladies and gentlemen, this is about equality, not superiority. We must stop wanting to storm the skies and manage real Spain at once. [[Applauds]] That Spain where there are millions of women such as the unemployed, the self-employed who have been frustrated by their businesses, the domestic workers and the 'kellys' who have not paid, the women immersed in ERTE or the many more who fit in bubbles every day to take their children to school, care for their dependent or older relatives, while at the same time performing their professional work and the household tasks that are still forgotten. Spain, where they have cut the maternity pension supplement, where they have eliminated the child allowance without disability or with less than 33 per cent disability, where instead of pushing the State Pact against Gender Violence to combat this scourge, they are talking about changing the name of the Women's Institute to that of the Women's Institute. Great contribution, no doubt! While this is happening, ladies and gentlemen of the left, you have remained stuck on the label, on the slogan, on the noise, on the division, on the false debates that nobody cares about. All that just to see who's in the picture and who's holding the banner of feminism and equality. The only thing that is clear is that this ministry, with an increase of 157 % in its budget, does nothing and takes no action to solve the real problems of real women. But do you know who they have solved their lives? The minister, her nanny and her counselors, because not even her escort. [[Applauds]] By the way, is the minister going to appear, as requested by this group, to provide explanations on the information regarding the initiation of judicial proceedings for the existence of signs of crime in the alleged use of a ministerial adviser as the nanny of her little daughter? Ladies and gentlemen, the reality is that in this ministry no one works for equality, neither for women who care for older or dependent children, nor for self-employed entrepreneurs and SMEs, nor for those who still expect minimum living income, nor for single-parent families, nor for the situation of domestic workers or 'kellys', nor for those who are unemployed, nor for widows who are the face of poverty in our country. It is terrible to see how Spanish women keep losing jobs and opportunities, returning economically, working and socially. But even more terrible is that, in the face of so much inequality, Mr Sánchez has a ministry called Equality which has completely disconnected from the social reality of this country, if ever it was, and which has become the ministry of family care, but only of the Iglesias-Montero or Montero-Iglesias family, so much mounts. And that, ladies and gentlemen, is neither feminism nor equality, it fulfils its motto of leaving no one behind. Therefore, in the face of the cuts of a government that is called feminist and progressive, but which then cuts in rights and benefits, we put forward a comprehensive plan to tackle female unemployment. I do not think it is necessary to remind them that employment is the best social policy and that a job offers women freedom; freedom to decide and freedom not to depend on anyone. [[Applauds]] Whenever women lose their jobs, lose rights, lose freedom and lose opportunities. We are already seeing it with the more than two million women who are unemployed, even though Minister Irene Montero said in this very rostrum two weeks ago that her Government had banned dismissal. Ladies and gentlemen, today with this motion, which does not speak of ideologies or distinguish or discriminate between women because of their convictions, the Group of the European People's Party puts forward sixteen proposals to improve the social, personal and working life of any woman who wants to work, reconcile, stay at home caring for her children or older persons, live with dignity and, if possible, with well-being; of any age, of any condition, vote for those who vote in the elections and commune with the ideas which it communicates in each case, with absolute freedom, as it should be. That woman - who is not one or two, but understands us all and concerns us all, let us be women or men - is the one we have to help, yesterday, today and every day. And that's the only reason...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u201	Mrs. Pérez, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u202	And just because of that responsibility, we have to keep moving forward on equality, together, by the hand, the women and men of this country and not lose sight of the real woman, who works in the city or in the countryside, who brings her children forward every day, who cares for her elders under any circumstances...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u203	Mrs. Pérez, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u204	...and that keeps the Spanish families standing. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u205	Thank you very much, Mrs. Pérez.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u206	One sentence, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u207	No, no, [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] In defence of the amendments put forward by your groups, Mrs Méndez Monasterio is speaking first of all by the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u208	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, we have tabled an amendment to your motion calling for the abolition of the Ministry of Equality, which we hope can be supported. [[Applauds]] We consider the performance of this ministry to be absolutely condemnable during the pandemic, prioritizing its perverse ideological agenda over the urgent needs of all Spaniards. You may not want it to disappear and what you want is to pass the law of yes is yes, you may also want to pass the trans law or the LGTBI law - which you have passed in different autonomous communities - that far from pursuing non-discrimination, what you are trying to do is to implement a perverse ideology, the gender ideology, moreover, without any scientific basis. Because, moreover, it is also you who promote more measures and a state pact that criminalizes all men, having liquidated equality before the law and also the principle of presumption of innocence, even if it does not diminish the number of victims. Ladies and gentlemen, you have entered a war to see who is supposedly more feminist than all of you, but it is that you no longer defend a liberal feminism, which has already conquered freedom and equality of opportunity, which truly defends women, the dignity of motherhood, a co-responsibility based on the freedom of choice of men and women, but fundamentally, that which defends the value of their differences. [[Applauds]] No, you defend a radical feminism and a fanatical feminism, absolutely fanatical, that confronts men and women, that sows hatred, that indoctrinates in their delusions and that, moreover, tells the woman what she has to study or what she has to do, what she has to dedicate and even what she has to think. It is a feminism that victimizes, it is a feminism that collectivizes, it is a feminism that discriminates. They are subject to a Marxist construction, and in view of their surrender to the ideological interests that lead with the destruction of women and the family, the basis of society, it is not surprising that they obtain these electoral results, something we are not happy about. [[The Lord]] But it is in this alienated career that it has come to the fore that, in the face of the question to the Minister of Equality of what a woman means to her, she could not answer. What is the meaning of this ministry? What use does this ministry have? What testimony can a minister offer that, in the face of so much suffering, we have seen her cry because the feminist movement criticized her delusions? But not a tear from a woman killed by COVID, from a woman in unemployment, from a desperate woman in the situation that created the pandemic. I know, ladies and gentlemen, this only demonstrates their lack of sensitivity or their lack of empathy, but also if we speak only of women we can prove their absolute incompetence. What have they done in the face of the unusual increase in women's unemployment, when seven out of ten unemployed are women? What have they done to alleviate the effects of the ruin of the most feminized sectors, such as hospitality, commerce, tourism? For so many chaotic and arbitrary decisions? Nothing! Although it is good to remind all your ladies and gentlemen that these dramas are also experienced by men. [[Applauds]] Do you know who helps the woman who can't go to work because she's alone to take care of her children who can't go to school? Who helps NGOs like Caritas. This ministry is a waste of propaganda and wages, they use it as a toy, a toy that costs almost 500 million euros to implement their fantasies, but it also does a lot of damage. A feminism that has brought death, that has brought unemployment, and the cut in the pensions of the mothers who have contributed the most to this country. This is the feminism of the Ministry of Equality. [[Applauds]] This ministry does not defend women, it uses them to strengthen their privileges and to keep themselves in power; it does not represent women, those who have lost their jobs or those who have stopped contributing to care for their children and those who lower their pensions. Nor does this ministry represent that pregnant woman who needs help, and all they propose is that she end her child's life. He does not represent the woman who sees in the man his partner and not his enemy. She does not represent the domestic worker who does not have a job or a subsidy right now. It does not represent that woman who works in a trade and prevents her from opening it. She doesn't represent that woman who's taking care of her father because she wants to take care of him, because she doesn't consider him a burden, and she doesn't get dependence. It does not represent children under guardianship in the Balearic Islands or women who allow private photos to be taken. It does not represent mothers who do not want to adopt their children. She does not represent that mother who does not understand that her son should spend three days in the dungeon for a false complaint. But, ladies and gentlemen, in addition to all this, the feminists on the left themselves do not represent them either. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, I hope I have convinced you to support our amendment. If it wasn't, maybe your electorate wouldn't understand it either. Thank you. [[Prolonged applause by the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, on the ground]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u209	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor on behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u210	Thank you very much, Mr President. After a year, the Ministry of Equality accumulates a good number of fiascos that do not correspond to the result that could be expected from a department with full capacity to promote measures through the BOE, and which is also conveniently endowed with resources as never before in the history of Spain, since it has increased its budget by 157 % to exceed 451 million euros, which is 277 million euros more than the previous year. And another revealing fact: in institutional advertising expenses, Mrs Montero's will be, of twenty-two ministries, the fourth that she spends most this year. The bleak background of Mrs Viviana Aido, the head of the first and ephemeral Ministry of Equality, back in 2008, Mr Rodríguez Zapatero's socialist government, has already been worsened by Mrs Montero. A feminist consecrated of unequivocal trajectory, of those of playing the skin, Mrs.Lidia Falcón, synthesized it palmarily a few days ago: this ministry is a joke. Ladies and gentlemen, the latest labour indicators reflect that the crisis of COVID-19 has been with women. If the Minister of Equality set herself as the objective in her mandate the commitment that women do not, as always, endure the worst of crises, it leads to a stupendous failure. Spain has retreated. They have now been excused with the coronavirus, but today our country is much more unequal than at the beginning of this legislature. It has also been wrecked by its sectarian inability to promote agreements in the general interest of the Spaniards. We're not looking at anything new. Mrs Montero led and signed the complete amendment to the historic State Pact against Gender Violence, which we can eliminate in 2017. In conclusion, Mr President. The People's Group's motion, which it supports, covers the most priority aspects in favour of equality policies, but in the blue bank they are at the grenadier. On the basis of the so-called trans law, drawn up by Mrs Montero's ministry, it has been known that it is a compendium of barbarities, chapuzas and legal insecurity, in short, a text proper to constitutional rigour. The fanatical gynecologist of the street of Alcala is appearing. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u211	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Vehí Cantenys has the floor for the same parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u212	Thank you, President. If the People's Party wants to talk about feminism, let's talk about it, because we wanted to talk about the ban on demonstrations on March 8 with the only justification for the terror given to them by the feminist movement, and it gives them so much terror that they had to stop compañeras of the Madrid feminist movement who, despite their absurd prohibitions, went out on the street to claim March 8. And from here we wanted to show all our solidarity and support for Madrid's feminist compañeras. Thank you for going out on the street, despite these people. [[Applauds]] And we also want to talk about the compañeras of all the Catalan countries. [[He finishes his speech in Catalan.-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u213	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Pozueta Fernández has the floor for the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u214	Mr. President, Mr. Guztioi. Ladies and gentlemen of the PP, the motion we are dealing with right now is the summit of cynicism. What a lack of political ethics must be in order to try to use messages and demands of the feminist movement, when you are practically one of the greatest advocates of neoliberal policies that underpin the patriarchal system, of policies that precarious, exploit and condemn women to inequality. The lack of political ethics leads them to use a subject as serious as that of the situation of women to try to draw political results. Look what I'm telling you. Perhaps the least of their concerns is to improve the bleeding situation in which many women live. If it were not, they would not use something as important as the situation we women suffered to attack the Ministry of Equality. If they were least interested in improving women's lives, they would apply feminist policies where they govern, but no, that's not their goal. Its policies are those that pact and apply by the hand of VOX's machismo. That is why I will not waste another minute with you, and I will focus on bringing to this Chamber the analyses and proposals that on Monday the feminist movements, by the hand of hundreds of thousands of women, have taken to the streets, as we have been doing for years. They want us to believe that the situation of structural discrimination experienced by women in all spheres has arisen overnight, as if it were paired with the COVID-19. We cannot deny that the pandemic has increased the gaps between men and women, between rich and poor. This has been added to the crisis faced by women, and that is why the gaps in society have become greater, but this discrimination comes from far away. We are the ones who preferably suffer them, and in particular the women who are through class, race and origin, and in all spheres of life every day. Sectors that have historically been precarious and feminized, such as care-related sectors, have become the most central sectors in the past year. Necessary, precarious and central care. Life and care have to be at the centre, yes, but, after so many years of policies of cuts and privatization, this past year has meant even more cost and suffering for women, forced to take on the bulk of care, both in the family and in the workplace, in a precarious way and with enormous insecurity. That is why it is not enough to recognize care, it is not enough with beautiful words; it must be given dignity and security. It is urgent to give a concrete response, beyond words, to dignify works, to publish services and to increase public investment. Care must be taken out of the private sphere and socialized and democratized. We must put an end to the extreme temporality rates, to the part-time rates, which are mostly applied to women, to the low wages and to the gap that already exists. If we continue to be used as mere wilds of the production system, to use and throw away, the situation will only worsen. I don't want to end without making a special mention of the women who work at home, all those so-called homeworkers. We have spoken on other occasions about the semi-slavery situation in which many of these women find themselves. The other day I saw a banner hanging on a bridge that said: internal work, modern slavery. And yes, that's right. Inmate work, modern slavery. Hard, very hard, but also very real. In addition, many of these women live under the yoke of the Aliens Act, which denies them rights and condemns them to precariousness, slavery and the impossibility of contributing to social security. What condemns them to this is modern slavery. That is why we once again call for this unjust Aliens Act to be repealed. In Euskal Herria Bildu we have very clearly that care must be taken by a public system - it must be free and universal - a system that guarantees care without exploiting anyone, a fair system. And we are also very clear that the answer comes from the collective, from understanding that it is everyone's responsibility to take care of life. It is an absolute priority as a society, and the alternative comes and comes from feminism. Horregatik, now feminism. Gora borrokafeminist. Mila esker. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u215	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Agirretxea Urresti has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u216	Thank you, Mr. President. I begin my speech with two questions so that they are clear from the outset. One, we are not going to support this motion; and two, Mrs Prohens, I do not see where she is, but it was a review the minister gave her last week; it was a review she gave her. Because of the way in which some, many, have understood and made policy, it would seem that the two previous statements I have quoted are contradictory or that one, unequivocally, leads to the opposite or that they cannot coincide with one another. Well, in our case, no. Precisely, that's the game we're not going to participate in or legitimize. It's a kind of opposition to the government that doesn't go with us. And they're guilty of this, both the interpellant and the interpelled. You, gentlemen of Podemos - and I tell you with all sincerity - created a kind of opposition, and now you pay them in the same currency. Let it be known that in Euskadi you continue to make that kind of opposition that you criticize so much when it goes against you. The rules of play that you apply are objectionable on the part of those who do not accept or play with them. It seems to me very wrong to do that kind of opposition, which was done to you; but, of course, you have not, you have participated and participated in that type of opposition; therefore, assume it. And the People's Party, what does it do? Well, he takes advantage of it; I understand his position, I don't share it or play it, but I understand it. Now, Member of the People's Party, the other day in the interpellation to Mrs Prohens the same thing: this cannot be a free bar; that is, you just need to accuse Mrs Montero or the Ministry of Equality even of the labor and emotional exploitation that Cinderella suffered. You use the data quite manipulated and taking it out of context; and, worse, making the following equation, that when you ruled you did not accept for yourself - but now you did - the same code of conduct that you attribute to Podemos: I take negative data that interest me and put them at the political moment when the other party governs, my opposite, even if they are exogenous and have nothing to do with or are a direct consequence of the government's action. That is, there are more unemployed people or more women victims or there is more wage gap while governing PSOE-We can. Therefore, resulting: the fault of the ruler of this situation. It's a rather childish equation, gentlemen of the People's Party; and if it wasn't worth it when you were ruling, it's not worth it now either. And you, Lords of Podemos, have given them free artillery. What did they think they weren't going to take advantage of that kind of game? Well, yes. And they don't lack reason on some issues, huh? You know why? For, because you have been filled with your mouth too many times as the great banners, and sometimes the only legitimized ones of truth, for the fight for equality, and those who were going to open the heavens also in this; and it has not been so; sometimes, because circumstances prevented it; and others because they have not been able or because they do not stop fighting among you or because so much eagerness for protagonism is harmful and leads to inoperation and inefficiency. We will not support the motion because it is impossible to support a motion with so many points. You call for unwavering adherence to some truths, to other half truths and to other truffles. Well, no. We will continue to defend real equality policies, which the governments of some countries, such as the Euskadi, exercise without so much pompousness and so little weed. We are all entitled to work for equality. There is no VIP, but in turn we all have to be responsible for what we say and what we do. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u217	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Giménez Giménez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u218	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, this initiative that we are discussing today allows us to address one of the main problems not only in the last year, but it is a major structural problem, such as gender inequality, which has been increased by COVID. Ladies and gentlemen, despite the progress we have made in recent times, inequalities between men and women are evident: 64% of the workers with the lowest earnings are women; it is also the women who are the ones who pay the most the interprofessional minimum wage. There is an obvious wage gap that the National Institute of Statistics establishes in its latest data 21.4 per cent, a gap that makes women with university studies, with degrees, master's or doctorates earn 9500 euros per year less than men; moreover, a gap that, if we focus on women who are in a situation of greater vulnerability, increases so that I do not even dare to talk about the wage gap, but about the great problem of access to employment for many women, these high unemployment rates that Roma women, disabled women, migrants, poor women, women and women with less education live. If we really look at those gaps, the truth is that they make it very clear to us all the way we have to go in order to advance on equality. In addition, the pandemic has greatly increased situations of inequality, and is having a very severe impact on women. According to the latest data, women account for 57.49 per cent of the unemployed. The latest data we have had of unemployment in February support us very clearly, because 70% of the unemployed in February are women. If we add to this the problem of conciliation, given the lack of active co-responsibility policies, it is clear to us where equality policies should go, policies of equality that are neither left nor right nor centre nor nobody; they are policies of equality for all and everyone. We must start working on an equal footing with this perspective, something which I believe is still unclear to the House. I think it is important that we address these issues of the wage gap, because the wage gap also contributes to an important issue of inequality that also translates into tomorrow's pensions for many women. Alongside this, we are also facing an increase in poverty by COVID. Little has been said about this, but I really believe that one of the main causes of COVID that we currently have is not only the structural poverty that we have carried away from before, but all that severe poverty, that relative poverty that we are currently being told about entities such as Intermon Oxfam, and that highlight all those queues of hunger that remain. In this situation, when we talk about equality, we must also not look elsewhere at the situation of male-based violence. Machist violence is one of the main problems that we have also been fighting in recent weeks and in which we in Citizens believe that progress should be made with greater impact. That is why we are introducing a law in the Senate to enforce the State Pact against Gender Violence, and we are greatly surprised that this issue is also intended to be patrimonialized. Otherwise, we do not understand why that Senate law has not been passed by the Socialist Party. I think it is very clear where we are walking in this work, but what is the ministry really doing? What we are seeing is that there is a series of inefficient legislative policies, because there is little legislative policy on equality. The agreement signed by PSOE and Podemos collected many initiatives, but few have been brought about with regard to the development of the pending measures of the state pact, as I have told you: the fulfilment of the provisions of the Istanbul Convention or the implementation of measures to end the gender gap in areas such as science, technology, engineering and mathematics. The work that is being done is therefore inefficient, just as it seems to me inefficient that equality policies are being set up with a breakdown within the Government itself, with confrontations. Neither the Equal Treatment Act nor the Trans Act nor any kind of equality policy should come to this House without a previous consensus, without prior work and without a united defence of all. Finally, what do we propose from Citizens? We propose that paternity and maternity leave be extended to 24 weeks - co-responsibility policies -, that free children's education be extended from 0 to 3 years, and that childcare, extra-curricular activities and playroom services be extended. These are useful proposals. It is also necessary to ensure that minimum living income is properly implemented if it is not a harmful policy that will not reach those who need it. What are we also proposing? Maintain the child allowance.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u219	Your Honor, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u220	All these practical and useful proposals are going to encourage the work to be carried out properly and for this reason, even if Minister Montero is not here now, I want to give her my hand because we have a lot to do, and I believe that the policy she is implementing is inefficient. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u221	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Vallugera Balañà has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u222	Thank you, President. Deputies, deputies, the use of the pandemic as a ram to overthrow the Ministry of Equality, rather than opportunistic, because it is directed at the environment of March 8th, is unworthy, and therefore we will vote no to its motion. It is undeniable that the impact of the pandemic on women has been devastating, but not because of the action or inaction of the ministry or the government or because of the existence of that ministry, but because of the previous situation that feminism, feminisms, have long been denouncing because of the structural discrimination that you, the People's Party, are complicit and also causing. This kind of initiative does not allow us to talk about what I think is really interesting about feminism, what we understand as feminism, which is the radical transformation of our society. Feminism is a quota for the incorporation of women, but not only; it is the fight against all the violence perpetrated against women, but not only; it is the fight against the wage gap and against the pension gap, but not only; it is the fight for equal opportunities, but not only; it is the understanding that the bases on which we sit and have demonstrated, especially during the pandemic, how fragile, how weak they are, must be reviewed and that equality when it is only to do the same that has been done so far, that it is to change men brought in by women brought in sitting, serves nothing and serves no purpose to underpin the freedom of all of us and hope in the future. In short, it is not just about replacing women with men, especially in places of power, but above all it is about replacing the prevailing macho worldview, and this is what the Government is not doing. Angela Davis said that feminism is the radical idea that holds that women are people, and this radical idea carries within it an analysis of their own privileges, and the need to understand the different oppressions that women are doubly victims - racism, classism, homophobia, transphobia - and the fight against them all forms part of that ideology of feminism that seeks to establish new social contract bases that revolve around life and its care, but also around freedom of how to live that life, and that is not liberal feminism. The criticism of the Government is therefore not because of the lack of ambition of the MeNuda Plan, but because of the inability to legislate and guarantee them rights that we have not yet achieved and the inability to explain their proposals. Among other things, bring the trans law to this Congress. [[Applauds]] Please legislate and repair the damage. They fight transphobia, but they also fight LGTBphobia, which is already hard to say, but very easy to explain and very easy to see in all the classrooms of our schools. I want to end with some verses that have been with me my whole life. It is the verses of Maria Mercè Marçal that say - and I am sorry, because I am going to say them in Catalan; well, I am not sorry, they were written in Catalan and I am going to recite them in Catalan -: 'A l'atzar agraeixo three gifts: to have been born dona, of lower class and born oppressed. And the core of being three times rebellious.' Today, the imprisonment of my comrades, political prisoners in an authoritarian state, the foolishness of the parties on the left, subjected to the dictate of the market - to put it mildly - and once again reveals to me the futility of feminist policies when they do not serve their purpose: to guarantee rights and protect the freedom of each one of us. Freedom to live, to love and to be! Visca, visca, visca, feminist struggle! [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u223	Thank you. [[A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.-Pause]] Mrs Fernández Castañón has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podem-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u224	Good morning. First of all, I would like to say to the proposing Member, as to a Member who called for a reprobation of a minister whose portfolio was also that of Equality, who can make political criticism without disrespect or education, and who can make criticism of equality policies without Machist comments. You can; try it. [[Applauds]] It is truly surprising that the party that in the Government cut more in equality policies, which wanted to reduce the Institute of Women to its minimum expression, which fired ten women workers from that institute, which planted us with its labor reform, which has placed the precarious face of women; the party that only aims at the feminism of mouth and that of Ms. Pepis, the party that is blackmailed by the far right with proposals peculiar to Francoism in cuts of freedoms is surprising to come to tell us today how to do things. All right, well, let's follow your prescriptions. They're worried about the job. It turns out that with the employment reform approved by the PP just reaching the government in 2012, historical peaks of unemployment were reached; in particular, that of women 27.6 %. They are concerned about poverty. It turns out that with the policies implemented by the People's Party during its Government, the Rajoy Government, the rates of risk of poverty or social exclusion reached their historical peaks. The neoliberal policies applied by the People's Party to the Government, when applied in the State or in any autonomous community, are more impoverished if it is possible, more precarious if it is women's. And this has been done by all of you in times without a global pandemic. By the way, they have been subjected to arguments, including lack of spelling, in the text of their motion. They urge the Government to do what it is already doing, and in fact it happens that the Government is doing more. This government has increased the equality budget by 157 per cent to make equality policies, increased the financing of the state pact. And I'm going to make a letter. With regard to that pact of State, which you did not exclusively push, which you did not want it to have funding, which you did not want it to have a timetable for implementation, which every measure that involved resources for you was a problem, and which you did not want to involve measures against inequality, because you did not see the breeding ground that inequality entails when talking about sexist violence, women out there, especially those in more vulnerable situations, are very clear about what equality policies are necessary to combat sexist violence. It is a pact that, yes, served the then President M. Rajoy to take a picture of the work that had been done in this House just when he came out to testify at the National Court; that pact of state that you come to claim and that this Ministry of Equality not only executes, because it also wants to go to more. This is what the coalition government pact says, and this is what is developing. The Ministry of Equality presented the Correspondent Plan yesterday, because, when you speak of reconciliation, you fall into the treachery of making us believe that this belongs to the private sphere, when, in reality, it is a responsibility of the State and one has to respond with a national care system, and that the feminist movement and the Ministry of Equality have it very clear and are putting it into operation. The answers are public policy. [[Applauds]] Look, one of the things I could be most excited about would be to find consensus to fight for social justice. What more do I want than a motion that was not inane, that was not part of absolute swimming; what more do I want. But what I find is not that; what I find, besides that swimming and that inaccuracy, are attacks ad hominem, based on patranas. How much hatred do the women of the People's Party, who do not see that in this battle we are for all women? Do the party lines devised by 'lords' weigh more, who think that women's rights is a space of confrontation with the political adversary? Aren't you women who, because of their status as women, even when they are white and have above average economic resources, notice that everything makes it much harder for them to be women? Today I'm wearing a T-shirt from the "Las Mujeres del Libro" collective, with Audrey Lorde's drawing by artist Paula Bonet, who warns: 'Your silence will not protect you'. Many of the captains, many of them, show us that the revolution begins by breaking the silence: that of the conditions of the domestic workers, that of the single-maritime families lived in violation of their right to housing as a failure of their own, when it was a state problem; that of Nevenka Fernández, who denounced sexual harassment when in this country this was not talked about. Look at the leaders of the neighbourhoods and the squares, look at the policies that this Ministry of Equality and this Government are taking forward, not without the resistance of the retrograde extreme right, and tell me, deputies and leaders of the People's Party: In the history that feminism is writing, that we are writing, from whom are you going to put yourselves? Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u225	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, Mrs Ros Martínez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u226	Ladies and gentlemen, live on 8 March, live International Women's Day and live the feminist movement! [[Applauds]] Yes, the feminist movement, because today it is more indispensable than ever, even if the right and the right continue with its bulls and lies trying to criminalize once again on March 8. [[points to the seats of the People's Parliamentary Group in the Congress]] [[points to the seats of the VOX Parliamentary Group]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, the best contribution you can make for women's rights and equality is to break with your right-wing partners. Did you hear them? Really, don't you feel ashamed of what they say? The PP brings us today a motion that is the clearest evidence of its demagogy, and already advance you that we will vote no. It's true that paper endures everything, but it can't stand the kind of manipulation that your text contains. They are calling for a co-responsibility plan, but the reality is that yesterday's Council of Ministers and Ministers approved the co-responsibility plan, with EUR 190 million, to provide families with care at home or in public units; a plan in which the priority are single-maritime families, victims of sexist violence, long-term employees, those over 45 years of age and families with dependants; a plan for which you voted against in the budgets. Ladies and gentlemen, in the defence of women's rights, facts, and not words; facts, such as the 70% increase in social service items to strengthen the care system; facts, such as the EUR 200 million for education from zero to three years; facts that for the first time equalize maternity and paternity leave to sixteen weeks, equal and non-transferable; facts, such as the recovery of social security contributions from the caretakers of the dependency system, which the PP eliminated - and most of them women -; facts, such as the increase in education and health items, 151% and 70% respectively, for groups where the majority are women, and made like the improvement of the minimum vital income, to reach more people. [[applause]] Facts, and all of this you voted not in the budgets. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, your party, your party, the one who appeals to the Constitutional Court for equality laws and does a job reform like that, cannot give any lessons. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, your party, the PP, which has voted no to budgets that give legal status to regulations on equal pay and equality plans, the only thing you can feel is shame when you have to talk about women's rights. And the summit is already when you ask to develop as soon as possible the measures of the State Pact against Gender Violence; yes, the one that you have paralyzed and was only pushed after the motion of censure against Rajoy, returning to the municipalities the powers that the PP took away from them, putting 200 million euros that the PP did not put and driving the legislative changes that the People's Party did not make. [[applause]] [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, calm down. You say that the left is not going to label you in the matter of feminism, and it is true: you yourself label yourselves. The Equality Act was used, the Equal Marriage Act was used, the Abortion Act was used, and the equality law has been used. Ladies and gentlemen of the PP, as bad as it weighs, the government that Pedro Sánchez chairs is a feminist government; yes, feminist, because he has not only a Ministry of Equality, but twenty-two ministries working for and for equality and because the denialist discourse of the far right is fought with more feminism. [[applause]] The women, the socialists, we will continue to plant their faces. The feminist agenda of the Socialist Party is very clear: a law on equal work and equal treatment, combating gender-based violence, a strong welfare state, a law on the use of time and rationalisation of hours, a law on equal treatment and non-discrimination, a law against sexual assault, a law against the treatment and abolition of prostitution and not of the rental wombs. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no better egalitarian policy than a good feminist law published in the BOE. And I end up like I started. Live on March 8th! Long live International Women's Day! Long live the feminist movement! Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-10-CD210310.u227	Thank you very much. Mrs Pérez Díaz, do you accept your group's amendment? [[Denials]] Thank you. Having said all this, we shall suspend the sitting. See you tomorrow. It was two and fifteen minutes in the afternoon.
