ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-23-CD211223.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. The meeting was resumed. We begin with the point corresponding to the direct and read-only processing of the bill amending Law 12/2002 of 23 May approving the Economic Concert with the Autonomous Community of Vasco Country. I give the floor, on behalf of the Government, to the Minister for Finance and Public Service.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-23-CD211223.u2	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, all of you. Indeed, I rise to the rostrum to defend before the House Bill 121/1978, a law amending the 12/2002 approving the Economic Concert with the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country, against which the parliamentary groups VOX and Citizens have submitted amendments to the whole and ask for a return to the Government. I will talk about this later, but I would like to focus, first of all, on giving you an account of the content of the rule which, as you recall, was adopted on 30 November by the Council of Ministers with the aim of complying with what was agreed at the last meeting of the Joint Committee on Economic Concert, held on 29 July, between the General Administration of the State and the competent institutions of the Basque Country. In particular, the amendment contained in this draft law makes it possible to conclude the tax on certain digital services and the financial transaction tax, as well as the special VAT regimes for cross-border electronic commerce. We are therefore talking, ladies and gentlemen, about measures which involve greater tax coordination with the European Union and which, in my view, represent a necessary step forward in modernising the tax system. Of course, the bill fulfils the obligation to adapt the Economic Concert with the Basque Country when there is a reform in the state's tax system. Reforms, ladies and gentlemen, which may affect the concertation of taxes, which may alter the distribution of regulatory powers or which create - as is the case - new regulatory figures, new tax figures. In other words, with what we are doing today, we are scrupulously complying with the legal system and also with the Spanish Constitution. It is relatively common - ladies and gentlemen who have been in this House for a long time know it - that this type of adaptation is quite common. In fact, they have been carried out up to three times since 2007. That is why I was telling you that today I have the honour to present in this House the adaptation of the Basque Economic Concert by the introduction of the new Community regulations in relation to different tax facts. With regard to the tax on financial transactions and on certain digital services, they are incorporated into the Economic Concert with the Basque Country as concerted taxes of state law, so that the requirement of payment of the tax by the outlaws will occur by applying the same rules established by the State at the general level. In fact, in both tax figures the taxable persons will tax the outlaws, the State Administration in the rest of the autonomous communities or - if necessary - both administrations. In the case of financial transaction tax, they shall tax in proportion to the volume of transactions subject to tax in each territory during the liquidation period. Tax on certain digital services is to be charged on the basis of the volume of such services provided in each territory during that period. In both cases, the inspection competence will be allocated according to the taxpayer's tax domicile. I think it is important to highlight the Government's efforts to adapt this tax system to the new economic reality. On fiscal issues, as you know, we are at the forefront of the international debate. Yesterday itself, the European Commission introduced a law to set the minimum rate of 15%, a measure that, as you know, we have already incorporated in the General Budgets of the State for the coming year 2022, and which will be definitively incorporated in the adoption by this House next week of the draft budgets. They also know that it will be the second consecutive year in which the Executive approves its accounts in time and in form. In order to give you an account of the amendments relating to the special VAT Single Window schemes, I would like to remind you that the European Commission has carried out an ambitious reform of VAT in cross-border electronic commerce. The European Union's objective with this reform is to modernise and simplify the current system, in order to make it compatible with globalisation and with the existence of an increasingly digital environment. The basis for the amendments is the reform of the Community distance selling scheme, the application of a single window mechanism and equal treatment for all Community suppliers outside the Union. All this, ladies and gentlemen, has required the transposition of various directives by the Member States and, in this case, also the adaptation to the outside system. In this way, the new VAT system for electronic commerce generalises this principle of taxation for destination, i.e. these transactions are to be subject to VAT in the Member State of arrival of the goods or in the establishment of the consignee. However, in order to avoid employers and professionals having to submit, as would be the literal nature of the rule, different VAT returns in each of the Member States in which their customers are located, they are allowed, in order to simplify the issue, to opt for this single window system. They will therefore be able to submit a single declaration or settlement of the tax for all e-commerce transactions carried out in the different States of the European Union. What will taxpayers do? In fact, you must submit your VAT return, enter the tax administration's share of a single state called identification. It shall be for which it has opted or applied under this scheme. Subsequently, that collecting State distributes the quantities through this single window with each of the States where consumption actually occurred. These are, ladies and gentlemen, as you will understand, very technical issues, very complex, but what lies behind it is the desire to move towards a more integrated, more united and more cohesive European Union; to speed up, in short, tax procedures that help, help to build an idea of more and better Europe. The Government of Spain has transposed these Community directives by amending the VAT Act, including new special single-window schemes. The last amendment was made and validated by this House through Royal Decree-Law 7/2021 of 27 April. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law that we are discussing today materializes the agreement reached in the Joint Committee for the conclusion of these VAT schemes, introducing into the Economic Concert the points of connection that determine in each case which tax administration will be competent to require the payment of these taxes under these special schemes. This, ladies and gentlemen, is not a matter that is only and exclusively with the Basque Country, it is also a modification that has to be made with the Navarro agreement as another of the autonomous communities of foral regime. In fact, I would like to remind you that a few days ago - in particular on the 20th day - the negotiating and coordinating committee of the State Administration and the Community of Navarre also met, and it was also agreed that the Economic Convention should be amended to bring it into line with both this new regulation on VAT for electronic commerce and the two taxes that I have just mentioned, which came into force this year, 2021, as with other changes in the tax system in recent years. You will see, ladies and gentlemen, that what we are of course developing is the configuration of the State, to which we owe ourselves constitutionally, with which we have to comply, but also - I think we have to understand this - within the Government's objective of deepening the modernization of the tax system with a view to the 21st century. The debate, as you know, revolves around the increasingly pressing need to modernise tax systems to adapt them to new economic realities or business realities. This Government already announced at the beginning of the legislature that one of its objectives is to move towards more equitable, progressive and fairer taxation. And that, ladies and gentlemen, is what we do today. There is no doubt that taxes are the main source of funding for public services and, therefore, for the welfare State, services that are nothing but a guarantee of equality. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, with this proposal we are bringing today, we are giving effect to those autonomous communities which are governed by a regime different from the common system. And this cannot be translated, as some political groups do, as the privileges of one territory over another, but as the effective respect for the rules that we have agreed among all and, fundamentally, that were born in the constitutional pact itself, because the objective is nothing other than to advance towards that cohesion of the State and also towards that new taxation. That is why we have to adapt our tax system, make it flexible and respond to the most urgent needs. Some of these adjustments are, for example, those that we have just approved to extend the reduction of VAT on the energy bill or the reduction of VAT products related to masks and other health products to combat the pandemic. We therefore demonstrate with facts that this Government looks at the interests of the citizens, also strictly complies with the rules and therefore gives substance to the constitutional principles. So far, ladies and gentlemen, I have moved - I hope with the precise details, without going into much technical complexity - the bill we are defending today, the scenario and the context in which it focuses. But I do not want to finish my speech without addressing briefly the parliamentary groups which have tabled amendments in their entirety. As for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, in your amendment you come to say that this bill is a sort of fraud of the Constitution. Without going any further, Mr. Bal called it a coupon yesterday. I, ladies and gentlemen, would like to tell you that only this expression is a sign of the lack of knowledge about the content of the bill that we bring today, of a procedure that is normal - to which the law obliges - and therefore - I repeat - does not mean any application of privileges from one territory to another, quite the contrary: strict compliance with the Constitution. And, Lords of Citizens, there is no more reading than that. I was also surprised that Mr Bal said this because of his previous profession, because he knows perfectly well the difference between what is the quota negotiation and what it means to adapt the tax system to the circumstances that determine the law with respect to the foral regime. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I also value the vocation of this Government to agree on the tax figures that we are incorporating into this tax system, basically after the report of the committee of experts is handed over to us, something that will take place at the end of February next year and where, depending on the different tax figures, we will have to continue to work so that we can incorporate them into the foral regime with all the characteristics, with all the specifications that emanate from the norm and that are concrete in the joint committee that normally meets for this purpose. Finally, with regard to the amendment by the VOX Parliamentary Group, I would say, ladies and gentlemen, that it is well known to all the members of the House the position that your group maintains, openly against the autonomous state and the constitutional pact in relation to the Basque Country. In fact, in the explanatory statement of your amendment to the whole, you go against the modification of the Basque Concert from a model of state that you conceive of completely centralizing, completely unitary, in terms of the architecture of the administrations, therefore absolutely opposed to the constitutional architecture itself. In this intervention I do not want to waste much time discussing with those who are doing what is abrogating with their proposal the autonomous State, a State that is a true supporter of the rights of citizens, of our system of democratic representation and, as I said to them, of the spirit of the rule that protects us all, of the basic norm that reflects the singularities of the relations of the Basque Country with regard to the whole State, basically in the matter of the specificity of its fiscal regime, which is based on the external diputations, recognizing its historical rights, as established by the Constitution. Ladies and gentlemen, questioning the conclusion of taxes is really facing our constitutional rule, as I say, trying to move away from the spirit that inspired constitutional parents. I conclude this intervention, ladies and gentlemen, by calling for your support for this bill, which fulfils the executive's obligation to respond to the vocation of this progressive government to agree on the fiscal figures that are being incorporated into our tax system, and to move away from the debate of confrontation, from the chrispation that the bench of the right constantly scrambles in this House to try to wear down the executive. In short, what they do is generate noise in politics, and above all practice a way of understanding what unites us that I do not share, especially because it confronts the territories and feeds comparative grievances, always with half truths, biasing reality and seeking merely partisan interests to oppose this issue. The Government will continue to work away from that noise and these positions, because they bring no benefit to the citizens, but away the debate in this House from what really matters, from what concerns people: the pandemic, employment opportunities and the sustainability of the welfare system. We believe that it is essential today that this royal decree-law be validated, in compliance with the rules that protect us, basically the constitutional norm, and something that is of justice in the state architecture of which we have been endowed, in which - I repeat - the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country has singularities with respect to the rest of the autonomous communities, as is the case with Navarra. Ladies and gentlemen, far from being privileges, it is precisely a question of fulfilling what I understand is the majority vocation of this House, of respecting that rule, and above all of deepening that decentralized structure which we have acquired, and which has brought so much success in these years of democracy. For all this, ladies and gentlemen, I ask for your vote in favour of the validation of this royal decree-law. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-23-CD211223.u3	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Two amendments have been tabled to the full refund of the above-mentioned bill. For the defence of your amendments, by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Martínez Granados has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-23-CD211223.u4	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, today in Citizens we are speaking, first of all, on the amendments to the entire bill amending the Basque Economic Concert Act; an amendment by the Spanish Liberals which is not only technically relevant, but has a deep democratic and parliamentary sense. And I explain myself: look, the opposition has not even had the opportunity to discuss or partially amend this bill, because the Government has wanted to do so. Therefore, with this amendment to the whole of Citizens we have managed to have at least a few more minutes to explain why we are opposed to having to process this update of the Basque coupon in just five minutes, without debate and on the basis of an absolutely opaque quota calculation. But let me just before we get to the bottom of the matter, let's talk about the way it is. Because what is happening today in this Parliament is a barbarity that explains many of the current evils of Spanish politics, because it turns out that the Socialist Party and the People's Party have agreed that their majority will allow this Parliament to steal its debate; here bipartisanism and the nationalists again in the manita to commit a new outrage. That is why I tell you that you would be delighted without having to listen to Citizens in this debate. But we, the Spanish liberals, are here to be the voice of millions of Spaniards and to portray bipartisanism in its decisions and its intolerant sessions of nationalism. That is, the People's Party and the Socialist Party do not use their valuable majority to push for a law that protects ALS patients, nor a state pact for education, nor for pensions, no. You guys have a lot to do with your head here, in the control session, but it takes you five minutes to agree to keep your privileges; sometimes it's yours and your armchairs, as it has happened with the Ombudsman, Spanish Radio and Television or the Court of Auditors. By the way, ladies and gentlemen of the PP, how do you feel when you see socialist Gabilondo squatting his head in the face of harassment at Canet? What do you feel? Do you feel the slightest sense of conscience for what you are doing in Spanish democracy? I told them that you sometimes maintain your privileges, but that curiously you also enlist to keep the nationalist parties, as today. Because we are going to speak clearly to the Spaniards, the Socialist Party and the People's Party have been negotiating for decades in a dark room how to calculate the Basque quota that the Basque Nationalist Party has to give each year, and they are so, but so, so used to it that no one controls their evils that they want us to pass through the roller so that we can't even ask. And that's all right, this is a shame and it's a democratic overrun in every rule, because you're used to approving this coupon. So let me abound on the first foundation behind our amendment, which is the parliamentary and democratic spirit, because it turns out that there are first and second laws here, ladies and gentlemen. In this very plenary - you know - we have discussed other very important laws, we do it every week with fundamental projects, such as climate change, university coexistence, on accessibility for people with disabilities, etc. Please explain to me why there are laws that deserve debate in committee, in committee and in plenary and why there are laws that do not; why there are laws that can be amended by these Members and why there are laws that do not deserve it; why everything that has to do with the Basque coupon cannot even be amended by representatives of national sovereignty; how can it be that a measure that affects the pocket of 47 million Spaniards cannot beat it at the seat of national sovereignty? Because the Socialist Party, the People's Party, Podemos and the nationalists have already closed it. And they tell us: it's in the Constitution. Of course it's in the Constitution. Are all laws emanating from the Constitution enforced? Of course I do. But why can't we talk about them? Because of some we can talk about. For let all Spaniards know that the People's Party and the Socialist Party agree that we cannot even talk about the calculation of the quota, but not because they are concerned, but because all they care about is that the Basque Nationalist Party does not destabilize its majorities. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, I tell you that behind this vote are many of the evils of Spanish politics, which make the six seats of the Basque Nationalist Party worth more than millions of votes in other autonomous communities. So, I'm going to keep insisting on the cacicada that you want to commit because you do. I sincerely believe that the Spaniards deserve to be treated as adults and explain to them what is being cooked at the headquarters of national sovereignty. Let us see what this is that you intend to carry out here today and, above all, how you justify it. On the one hand, they tell us that it is a matter of urgency to rely on something that the Rules of Procedure do not say, but what urgency? The one Sanchez has so he doesn't piss off the Basque Nationalist Party? Because if you want, I, as Andalusian, can perfectly talk to you about the emergencies that exist in Andalusia, for example, and in other communities, with the Autonomous Financing Act. The Minister of Finance, when she was a counselor, will remember things you said about Rajoy about how she abandoned the debate on autonomous financing, won't she? - you'll wake up. Moreover, I have taken the trouble to see what the Socialist Party was saying when the last coupon was approved; yes, that calculation to which you all voted in favour: extremists, Riojas and Andalusians; all in favour. But what did the Socialist Party say? Mr. Pedro Saura, now the brand-new director of Paradores, denounced the political will of the People's Party to reform an autonomous financing system that, he said, highlighted the discrimination of the autonomous communities of common system, some of which he described as scandalously underfunded. It's just like that. The Socialist Party and the People's Party have been postponing the debate on autonomous financing, which is crucial for millions of Spaniards, and on which Valencian, extremist, Madridn and all autonomous communities depend. Yahora is in such a hurry to continue to shield the privileges of the Basque Nationalist Party, without reching. What about the rest of the Spaniards? That is, that these are the agreed and tolerated priorities of bipartisanism. For this there is urgency, but for the financing of the autonomous communities of common system, a decade of delay. That is true, for the Basque quota the most punctual and in three minutes of debate. On the other hand, what the Rules of Procedure do say is that it is agreed because of the simplicity of the draft; it is agreed. Man, ladies and gentlemen, I am not an economist, but I would say that for the calculation of the quota there is a certain complexity that gives more than three minutes of debate and parliamentary work. Not to mention the opacity that the People's Party and the Socialist Party gave the Basque Nationalist Party with an indescribable method of calculation. But I confess to you that my favorite argument to justify this unique reading cacicada is that it has always been done this way. Wonderful; it's always done this way. So, nothing, let's not vote telematically, let's not control the stakes, and let's not make decisions that today, obviously, puts us in front of. Anyway, it's always been like this, and that's really outrageous. What happens is that you are no longer alone to carry on with your trophies, without anyone portraying you. I would like to make it very clear to you, too, about the part of the substance behind this amendment as a whole. We have no complexes, ladies and gentlemen: we recognize that we are absolutely against calculating a quota in a dark room, with political criteria and, practically, inscrutable, so that even the experts have doubts. In fact, ladies and gentlemen, this amendment to the whole also bears the signature of experts who have even brought to the courts the constitutionality of the law, as is the case of Alain Cuenca, or Angel de la Fuente himself, one of the most reputed, who says of this law, that you are amending to further content the PNV, the following: The contribution of the Basque Country the state finances is much less than it should be, according to the basic legislation currently in force. The origin of the misadjustment lies in the five-year laws of the quota, where the valuation principles and procedures established in the Law of the Concert are formulated in a very questionable manner. But it is not just the experts, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party and ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, that even the courts have had to say what is obvious, and it is that this calculation has to be transparent-yes, ladies and gentlemen, transparent, that it comes to the House; we debate - that this calculation has to be known from the beginning to the end. They don't know it either, but I'm telling you about Judgment 88/2018 of the Central Court of Dispute-Administrative No. 7 of Madrid, in which it criticizes the opacity of the Ministry of Finance and obliges to publish the agreement signed by the Central Government and the Basque Country in May 2017. Finally, we are tired of Spain's privileges and grievances, that bipartisanism wants to continue to shield in the image and likeness of the nationalists, becoming more unequal to the rest of the Spaniards, and with you silent; all silent. But this is not what you do in the opposition if you denounce each other. It's a shame. But let's go further, because this update of the law does what it does is to collect the participation of the Basque Country in the new taxes created recently: the Tobin rate and the Google rate. So far well, but it is that every time a tax happens the equality of all Spaniards is broken, because we cannot stay in the tax assignment. With this quota are already included privileges from the most recent assignments of the Government of Sánchez: the assignment of the competence of the prisons that is not accompanied by recalculation, the assignment of the management of the works of the Basque AVE, the transfer of pensions to the Social Security. Andalucian and extremist taxpayers will pay, with their increase in contributions, the pensions of the Basque Country, something that will not be done by Basque taxpayers, who do not pay the 36 million, through taxes, that go to Social Security. In short, as my colleague Edmundo Bal said yesterday, the fat man whom he touches this year and every year is the Basque Nationalist Party and we are already a little tired of the draw always being postponed by the People's Party and the Socialist Party at the cost of the equality of 47 million Spaniards. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, when in Spain we liberals are more necessary than ever, I say to you that we are not going to remain silent, that we present this amendment at all times because we are not alone with it, but with millions of Spaniards behind us who are tired of having to live a Spain of privileges and grievances. And yes, we will be the voice of the conscience that resonates with you, lords of bipartisanship, every time you trample on the equality of the Spaniards. I'm finishing up. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to address the citizens of Andalusia, the Canary Islands, Catalonia and Extremadura, and all those who are watching us today, so that they know that they are not doomed to become accustomed to these practices of bipartisanism that have been selling to millions of Spaniards for years, that there is a party that is sick of Spain of privileges and grievances and wants a Spain of free and equal citizens; that there is a party that does not care that today the Basque and Catalan nationalists insult it because we have always been the target of those who want to boost equality; and that the Spanish liberals will always be at the side of reason, which defends the objective calculations above the political criteria.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-23-CD211223.u5	Mrs. Martinez, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-23-CD211223.u6	I'm on my way. We will be, and always will be, defending the national sovereignty of abuses like this. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-23-CD211223.u7	Thank you very much, Mrs. Martínez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Figaredo Álvarez-Sala has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-23-CD211223.u8	Thank you very much, Madam President. "We must address a recalculation of the Basque quota so that the recognition of their outside rights does not translate into unjustified financial privileges. It's urgent that we do it.' This which I now say in 2021, was said by the Minister of Finance, Mrs Montero, in 2017 - they are literal words -. This shows how one thing can be said in the opposition and in the Government exactly the opposite. The minister has released here a speech in which, basically, she hasn't said anything, she has profiled herself, using a lot of minutes. The rule we are debating today is a bill amending Act No. 12/2002 approving the Basque Economic Concert. That change is basically to hand over to the Basque administration the management of a series of new taxes that have been created: the Tobin rate, the Google rate, etc. Indeed, this change in itself does not have great significance, but in any parliamentary process when a law is amended it can be extended. That is the ordinary procedure, except in this case, because in this case the Basque Concert Law, through which the quota is calculated, is agreed by a Joint Commission between the Ministry of Finance and the Basque Administration, which is basically the PNV, which has governed all life, except three years of absolute indifference, in the Basque Country. In other words, a joint commission of Mrs Montero with the Basque administration, with the PNV, agrees what the quota will be, that is, the total, that the Basque administration must pay after it has collected all the taxes, basically, that are collected in the Basque Country. It is important that we know where this comes from, because everyone sees that the PNV is called EAJ-PNV and no one knows what EAJ is. EAJ means Joel's friend party, which is an acronym that means God and old laws. And old laws are precisely laws like this, which sink their roots into a quasi-feudal norm of the eight hundred years. What is surreal is that parties that in theory are as modern and as progressive, as Podemos or the Socialist Party, if they are willing, however, to maintain laws as old as this, which basically consist - this is the Basque concert - in which the Basque Administration, that is, the PNV, collects taxes from the Basque Country, including VAT. Think, gentlemen who listen to us, that a company that is domiciled in the Basque Country collects VAT not only in the Basque Country but throughout Spain, where it sells its products, mainly; because these taxes are collected by the PNV and in a bilateral agreement with the Ministry of Finance organizes how much we pay and how much we don't. For them to understand, the current Basque quota is set at about €1400 million, that's what the Basque Country has to pay after having collected all taxes and, in order to get an idea of the order of magnitudes, in Extremadura the net tax revenues in 2019 were €1300 million. In other words, one of the regions with the lowest GDP in Spain collects almost the same as one of the regions with the highest GDP, which is the Basque Country, or the case of La Rioja, which has raised some EUR 17 billion. Rioja has raised 17 billion euros, and the Basque Country, 13 billion euros. Gentlemen of the Socialist Party, if you think this is fair, please come and tell me openly. The question is, whoever collects this and who gets this money is the Basque administration. Many people who listen to us will think that with this system the people who live or the companies domiciled in the Basque Country will pay less taxes, but it is not true. It is not true, because the fiscal pressure, i.e. the collection of the GDP of the Basque Country, is 37.5% - a little below the average of Spain - while La Rioja - without Basque concert, without this doping, which is really what this means - pays 37.4%, that is to say, 0.1% less. There is little difference, but without cheating there is less fiscal pressure in La Rioja than in the Basque Country and even in Madrid a government, supported by VOX, has managed to lower the fiscal pressure to 35,1%. It is important that we be heard by all taxable persons, that they know it: here the best part is the PNV, which is who leaves or distributes. That difference between that doping of the quota and the real fiscal pressure, where does it stay? Where's he staying? Well, it stays in successive bites of the PNV, the old laws. Thus the PNV is one of the most corrupt - if not the burning - parties of Spain, although the competition is intense: case Epsilon, 50 million euros; case Bidegi, 30,7 million euros; case Hiriko, 18 million euros; case Miñano, 16 million euros; Alonsotegi Eraikiz, 15 million euros; Balenciaga, 10 million euros; Margüello, 6.8 million euros; Hacienda de Gipuzkoa, 6.4 million euros; purines de Carranza, 5 million euros; Hacienda de Irun, 1.5 million euros, and so we are advancing to the fattest of all, case De Miguel, 62 million euros; in total, there are cases quantified by about 224,139 euros. There goes the money from the cup and the concert; that corruption, that dark sock that represents the Basque cup, in which no one knows how much it enters and, therefore, no one knows how much is missing. This is how the Basque Nationalist Party, among other reasons, has managed to escape freely. There are very specific cases of corruption, but the shadow of corruption overwhelms the PNV. Let us think of that question of the port of Bilbao, those millionaire contracts, that family consortium that has - yes, I see that Mr Esteban is revolting because it touches him closely - more than two hundred public contracts, more than 68 million euros obtained by a family group in public contracts. [[rumors]] Surreal! And here he comes, when someone digs and scratches, Mr. Ortuzar to threaten our partner Macarena Olona when he was investigating this issue. He threatened him directly if he continued to investigate the case of the purines of Karrantza, which, as I have said, was around 5 million euros, or when they also threatened to tell him that all the costs of the port of Passages were already known to the Minister of Development, at that time, Mrs Pastor, today at the Bureau of the Congress of Deputies. The doubt we all have is why this is tolerated. Why? Why does the Socialist Party, which is in the opposition, then tolerate it? Why does the People's Party, which sometimes in the opposition also attacks this privileged tax system that favors corruption, tolerate it? It's simple. In Spain we have fourteen legislatures, fourteen governments. Of these fourteen legislatures, only five have had an absolute majority, i.e. the other nine have consistently needed the support of nationalists, whether Basque or Catalan. In particular, eight of these legislatures had the express support in general budgets of the Basque Nationalist Party. Therefore, as they need the Basque Nationalist Party, they tolerate this kind of obscurantism and old laws that come from the year eight hundred and so many and that today we have to eat them with potatoes. You say that there is clarity, that the cup and the concert are perfectly clear. For us to understand those who are not technical, it is basically as if you calculate a discount equation of cash flows that has infinite discount cups and each of those discount rates could be biased in absolutely imaginative ways, so it is perfectly easy to introduce an extra 0.1 or 0.2, which with the multiplier effect gives us a result at will. That's what happens. This mixed commission between Mrs Montero and the PNV, at will, decides how much it will have to pay, not the PNV, but the Basques and the rest of the Spanish. We therefore believe that this is not fair, that this system needs to be modified. We make those words: 'We must approach a recalculation of the Basque quota so that the recognition of their outside rights does not translate into unjustified financial tax privileges'. Thank you so much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-23-CD211223.u9	Thank you very much, Mr Figaredo. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Aizpurua Arzallus has the floor on the position-setting table by the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-23-CD211223.u10	Thank you, President. Egun on. Good morning. First of all, I am going to address the government forces, PSOE and Podemos, regarding the measures they are going to adopt today to deal with this wave of COVID. Military are announced for vaccination, retired health workers for work, being risk groups, and mandatory masks abroad. Nothing about indoor ventilation, nothing about the reinforcement of primary care and trackers. This was not what was to be done. Masks on the outside, if not in agglomerations, are meaningless and have no scientific basis at all. The scientific and medical consensus in this regard is so broad that we believe that the consequences have not been properly calibrated. It seems to us that the only thing they are going to achieve is that citizens cease to comply with the useful measures to impose the useless and give wings to the negatists, when they need just the opposite: certainties, trust, clear messages and logical measures. In line with yesterday's announcement, the opposite is being done, since it has not yet been even clear whether the external mask will be mandatory in all cases or actually the same measure that is currently in force, which would be even more complicated to understand. People are tired and this accentuates the uneasiness between people. That is why we believe that we should not participate in the imposition of useless measures such as compulsory masks on the outside beyond what is currently in force, because it will have little impact on the pandemic, but it can have a lot of impact and will have a lot of impact, including on the mental health of citizens and on the loss of confidence, as well as on the legitimacy of institutions, the social legitimacy that effective measures need to be truly effective. This is very serious, we have to focus on the important. Outside you have to use masks in agglomerations, yes, but you have to focus on the importance of indoor spaces, the importance of primary care, of trackers and tests. This is what needs to be done. Having said that, I would like to turn to the subject before us today. We will approve today the amendment of the Basque Economic Concert so that our administrations can count on the management of new taxes. As usual, we do so in the midst of a marsam of qualifiers in which we talk about privileges, inequality and superiority from the greatest ignorant about what is and how the Economic Concert is articulated. Look, ladies and gentlemen of the right, we're a little tired of hearing you say nonsense, sands, falsehoods. So I'm going to try to explain it as if everyone understands it, even you. First of all, you say that it is a privilege because the Basques have two instruments, such as the concert and the economic agreement, which give us, yes, the ability to manage our taxes, and say that this is an economic chollo, a political claudication to the independenceists and a constitutional aberration. Do you know what the concert means economically? That we collect a portion of our taxes and invest them in policies and services that depend on our competences while we continue to pay for those of the State, yours, services as little needed and dear to Basque citizenship as the Royal House or the Army. But it is that, moreover, the supposed privilege of the convention must be privilege only when they are well given, because when the collection goes well we do have funds. And when it goes wrong? No one rescues us, no one finances us, no one keeps us afloat, as happens in the rest of the state. Therefore, yes, it is a mechanism that brings us advantages, but also risks. Secondly, they also say that it is a political claudication towards the independenceists. Well, look, no. Economic Concert is the price that the Basques and Basques pay because you have tied us to your state by force, it is the minimum that you had to offer to keep us in this state. Some accepted it and so we continue today. It is the least they had to offer, because we do not want an Economic Concert, we want an economic and fiscal system of our own that allows us to manage all our taxes and our economic and fiscal policies, all of them, ladies and gentlemen. Therefore, it is not by far what the sovereignists want, that is clear to them. And thirdly, they say it's a constitutional aberration. Do you know what a constitutional aberration is? That after forty-two years the Basque statute and the Navarro improvement remain unfulfilled, that is indeed an aberration and a lack of respect on the part of the successive Spanish governments to all Basques and Basques, because it has been forty-two years to fulfill a statute that should not only be fulfilled, but surpassed. And here we continue, some criticizing that will be fulfilled and others celebrating every new competition or tax that comes to spillovers of the State, as if it were a gift that Spain grants us. We've been in this same wheel for forty-two years. Does it seem to us positive that our outside institutions can manage new taxes? Yes, but we do not forget that managing is not to decide and that these taxes will also be conditioned to what is decided from Madrid, without the possibility of modifying or improving them in our institutions, it is limited to the management of what Madrid decides. That is why we do not participate in the euphoria of some because, far from being a victory to have to celebrate four decades later three new taxes, it is a failure. Powers and taxes are not concessions or achievements, are rights, our rights as Basques and Basques, and our rights cannot be at the mercy of the parliamentary needs or arithmetics of either party and government. That is why the relationship of dependence established by the Spanish Government has to change, because if we do not do so, we will continue to beg for competences. The statute is also outdated - it is true - as well as the Economic Concert. It is time to build a new relationship of equal to equal, a relationship of respect and not of imposition. That's what we ask, we don't want it against anyone but in favor of our society. Today we will earn new taxes, yes, some will celebrate it, others demonize it, but the reality is that we will remain bound to the will of this state...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-23-CD211223.u11	Mrs. Aizpurua, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-23-CD211223.u12	One sentence. The reality - I said - is that we will remain bound to the will of this State to fulfil our rights. It's time for us to move on. Eskerrik asko. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-23-CD211223.u13	Thank you very much, Mrs. Aizpurua. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Basque parliamentary group, Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-23-CD211223.u14	Egun on, ladies and gentlemen. Minister for Finance and Public Service, for us today is an important day because the agreement reached in the Joint Committee on Economic Concert, which we hope today will be ratified in this House, is the result of dialogue and consensus, a political exercise which, of course, should be the mantra of all political parties and governments. It is an agreement that consolidates the financial and tax relations between the State Administration and the competent administrations in Euskadi: Basque Government, outlaws of Álava, Vizcaya and Guipúzcoa. Through this bill several taxes approved by the State are concluded, whose levy, management and collection from now on goes to the hands of the outlaws as integral estates recognized according to the established in the concert. Moreover, it is an agreement consistent with the international tax system, which states that it is taxed where value is generated. Three State regulatory taxes to be agreed upon, pursuant to the second additional provision of the Concert Act. This is precisely what we are doing today in this procedure with two taxes of new creation and one amending to adapt it to the Community directives: the tax on financial transactions, where the point of connection for collection will be the registered office of the companies whose shares are acquired and the tax on certain digital services, the agreement establishes as a point of connection the place where the user who participates in those services is located. As far as VAT and electronic commerce are concerned, we are talking about a tax which is already agreed and is collected by Basque farms, but which must be amended in order to comply with European directives. A special VAT scheme whereby the company enters its tax office with the amount corresponding to the VAT rate of the country in which the consumer is located. Subsequently, exchanges of information and financial flows take place between the State's finances and the Member States, so that VAT is entered in the country where the consumption occurred. This is basically what is contained in the annex to the bill, something clear and concise, a single article to reject or approve what has been agreed. Therefore, the procedure that is established is one-of-a-kind reading, covered, as I said on Tuesday, in the laws and in the various rulings of the Constitutional Court. Mr Martinez, what we are doing here today is discussing, or rejecting or accepting it. On the other hand, the Economic Concert is fiscal justice and fiscal responsibility, it has immense value for us, immense social value and is thus perceived by Basque society, not only by the Basque Nationalist Party. It is a legal instrument that forms part of the foral regime, recognized and protected by the Constitution, that Constitution that you claim to defend. Others, however, come to use the concert as a source of grievance against other autonomy to try to obtain a political revenue in terms of votes with the rest of the state. This is called demagogy and opportunism. Few revenues will, of course, be obtained in Euskadi. And he already told them that some group will lose the seat they have and others, look, no elections, they've already lost it. I'd like to clarify a few things. They talk about opacity in the agreements. Is an agreement that is published in the annex to this bill that is put to the vote today opaque? No, no, They tabled two amendments, a totum revolution, to justify their new concert, because they confuse what is being debated here today. Today we do not debate the quota, today we debate the law of Economic Concert, the modification of Economic Concert. To those who say that the calculation is opaque, I would like to say that the amount is fixed on a technical and objective basis and, in addition, by officials of the General Administration of the State and the Basque Administration. Are you two fooling each other? What you can't say is this. By the way, some who criticise this quota figure, although they supported it in the 2017 and 2018 State General Budgets. The fact that the quota fixing system is complex does not mean that it is opaque. There is no debate today on the distribution of VAT, which, by the way, is not based - as you say, ladies and gentlemen - on the fact that each administration remains what is liquid without regard to consumption. It's an aberration what you said, Mr. Figaredo. He knows neither the tax procedure nor the taxes. The Basque Country has to pay VAT for what is consumed in that territory, a figure that may not coincide with what we collect there, so we have to adjust it, adjust to consumption. If what is collected in Euskadi is less than VAT than what is consumed in that territory, the State compensates and vice versa. They speak of a political opportunity to update this regime and not the common system. They mix barbecues with merinas, they are different diets and there are no communicating glasses. Therefore, the fact that one is updated neither penalizes nor improves the common financing system, which, by the way, seems to be already on the way. The debate about the financing of the Autonomous Communities of the Common System should not and cannot seek an explanation for their needs or shortcomings in the concert system, simply because the viability of the financing model does not depend on it, and they know it, because, although we carry all of Euskadi's tax collection, the problem of financing the Autonomous Communities of the Common System will not be solved. The concert works and works well. And for those who ask, yes, you could move to all communities, but know that you run a risk, because you have to raise well, maintain a high fiscal pressure to maintain a high level of public services and fiscal co-responsibility, because if income fails - as has been said here - the state does not come to your aid. In short, they attack the concert regime without any argument. Return to the usual mantras, everything to get electoral revenues. We are in solidarity, we contribute to the Interterritorial Compensation Fund, we contribute to the debt of interest, and by the way, we also pay - as could not be otherwise - the debt we pay for pensions. It is not a privilege, it is the assumption of a unilateral risk. We depend on our own collection to meet our own expenses and what we pay the State. If we don't collect enough, we can't go to mechanisms like the FLA, it's already happened in 2008. Is it a privilege to have fiscal competence and fiscal responsibility with capacity to spend? Is it a privilege, in a given territory, to have certain improvements or to have more capacity to spend, if they are financed by our own taxes which, by the way, are higher? No, because having an own Treasury requires not only a good tax system, but impeccable management. What is a privilege is to spend more and have no fiscal responsibility at all. Finally, a tax haven, they tell us too. Impossible, first, because Euskadi's fiscal pressure is greater, and second, because the concert itself forces us to maintain an equivalent pressure. But, in addition, there is something contradictory about all his arguments. They speak of a tax hack when the budget of 2021 approved an increase in the tax on higher incomes or the property tax and in 2022 a minimum tax on companies is proposed, which by the way in Euskadi we already had in place. So the question is very obvious: could you tell us how a tax haven is going to be something that is a tax hack? Mr. Figaredo, it's an old law, but, look, it always goes ahead in taxation. All his arguments are a fallacy. Tell us clearly that what they want is to repeal the concert. From the extreme right we can understand it, because they do not accept either national diversity, cultural or linguistics, and much less economics, but, of Citizens, a liberal party, I am surprised, the truth, when Europe has also approved the concert and endorses it. Besides, I can't understand that, on the one hand, when there are elections go to Navarre or come to Euskadi...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-23-CD211223.u15	Mrs. Sagastizabal, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-23-CD211223.u16	I'm finishing up. ...and defend the convention and the concert, and on the other hand, when they go to Valencia, they put themselves behind a banner demanding fiscal sovereignty and they voted in favour of a GNP demanding fiscal autonomy. Do you know what this is? Autonomy and sovereignty involve responsibility, risk-taking and impeccable management between what is collected and what is spent.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-23-CD211223.u17	Mrs. Sagastizabal, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-23-CD211223.u18	The corporal. In short, economic concert. Nothing more and thank you very much. I'm done. With this agreement, one more step is taken in self-government and progress is made in fiscal autonomy. I call for the support of the parliamentary groups. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-23-CD211223.u19	Thank you very much, Mrs. Sagastizabal. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] The Plural Parliamentary Group has the floor, first of all, Mr Rego Candamil.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-23-CD211223.u20	Thank you, Madam President. We are not going to discuss the content of the proposal, because we understand that it responds to the mechanisms for updating the Law on Economic Concert and because, in addition, it has the agreement of the respective governments and of the majority of the Basque political forces. So, I respect you. In any case, the debate on this matter again places on the table the need to debate also on the system of autonomous financing, which in the case of Galicia is absolutely unfair and where it involves a permanent drain of resources, because it is a country that does not have, precisely, the highest socio-economic and welfare indicators of the Spanish State. Faced with a financing model that clearly harms Galicia, the BNG historically defends the choice of an economic concert model adapted to our reality, defends that there is real capacity in our country to decide on our resources and capacity to collect our taxes and decide what to dedicate them to, based on bilateral negotiations with the State. It is not a proposal based solely on the conviction that we as Galicians and Galicians can and must be responsible for our future, but on the certainty that we will make progress in justice, social and economic development and quality of life. Because despite the commitment of the forces of the state - PSOE and PP always agree -, supported by clearly partial studies that we live from the solidarity of the state, the numbers indicate something very different. According to the data of the last budgetary liquidation of 2019, Galicia has a real fiscal capacity for which the State collects 13,212 million euros, but we only received back 8650 million euros; that is, our country lost more than 4 billion euros that year. And it's not something exceptional that happened in 2019, it's something structural, the result of an unfair model based on centralism. And what about the consequences of the headquarters effect. According to data from the Galego Institute of Statistics referring to 2019, that year a total of 4000 companies active in Galicia - exactly 3983 - paid their taxes in Madrid. Like this, anyone. Even above, they want us to believe, even if we live by our work and effort, that we are a subsidized country, that we live by the charity of others; it is an idea skillfully introduced into society and functions as a powerful element in an attempt to maintain the relationship of political dependence of Galicia indefinitely. The problem is that we Galicians and Galicians lose, and if we do not break the paradigm - it is the BNG that is pushing for it -, unfortunately it seems that it will continue to be so. Note that Feijóo convened last November a summit of autonomous presidents in Santiago to jointly address the issue of financing and that instead of facing common ground with Galician political forces and Galician society preferred to play a state leader or leader. As a result, with the new funding proposal from the Government of the State, out of the eight communities that participated in that summit, seven are benefiting, and Galicia is clearly harmed by exactly 2.7 per cent. We can conclude that Feijoo acts as a useful fool - useful fool - in an operation that harms Galicia. [[rumors]] In any case, we demand that the Government review its criteria, because the BNG will always fight for a fair financing system for our country, for Galicia. Thank you very much. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-23-CD211223.u21	Thank you, Mr. Rego. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the same parliamentary group, Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-23-CD211223.u22	Thank you very much, President. A preview. They will allow me to congratulate Minister Marlaska, with whom I usually have discrepancies, because yesterday he replied impeccably, for the form and for the content, put in his place and unmasked a Marxist deputy deVOX - before the PP -, Marxist of Groucho, not of Carlos, that every Wednesday we let go of his particular arena and that reminds us of that sergeant pimp that we all had in the militia, those who did it - Mr Abascal already know that he did not. This was on a day when another VOX MP, a state attorney, reminded me of a character from the Peaky Blinders in Birmingham before a Member of this House.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-23-CD211223.u23	Mr. Baldoví, you called the question, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-23-CD211223.u24	I'm on it. A finding. In my ten years as a Member of Parliament I have met Members of Parliament from Bildu - before Amaiur - the PNV, Geroa Bai or the Union of the Navarro People, and there is one thing that everyone agrees on: the Navarro agreement and the Basque concert are not touched. And it seems perfect to me. Everyone agrees, that is, people on the right, but on the right, as that of the Navarro People's Union, partner of the People's Party, by the way, is absolutely in agreement with this, and so do I, because bringing the Administration closer to the peoples themselves seems absolutely reasonable to me. Collecting taxes and then paying the part to the State for the services it provides is what we aspire to be very Valencian. Therefore, I am not against it. As Mr Bal said the previous time this was discussed, there were votes against, that of Citizens and that of Compromis. We were the only ones who voted against it, obviously for different reasons. Our vote was a vote of protest, because I understand that there are priorities, and priorities start with those who are worse, not those who are better; some have a per capita expenditure and a management of their own taxes that others cannot have; therefore, we are still waiting for a new funding system. Now it's changed, because there's already a document. A Compromís - I insist - does not dislike the Basque concert, because - again I insist - what we Valencians aspire to is to have an equal system, to collect taxes and to pay the State our corresponding share for the services that the State provides there. I want to remind you - I am finishing - that the Valencians had gone, Els Furs, that we had civil rights, that we had our own government institutions, and that all this was taken away for just right of conquest. Therefore, we have the same right as Basques and Navarros to have the same tax system. Our vote will be on abstention. I wish you a Merry Christmas. Thank you very much. See you Tuesday thanks to this special and sudden sensitivity that the People's Party has...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-23-CD211223.u25	Mr. Baldoví, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-23-CD211223.u26	... with minority languages. [[Rumors]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-23-CD211223.u27	Thank you very much, Mr. Baldoví. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr López de Uralde Garmendia has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podem-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-23-CD211223.u28	Thank you, President. Today, we are debating the agreement reached in the Joint Commission last July on Economic Concert, which affects a number of matters of great importance and which these Courts must therefore endorse. All are related to Law 12/2002 on Economic Concert. By the way, I would like to recall that the positive legal framework of the Economic Concert has its fundamental element in the first additional provision of the Constitution. What is not good for us is that the Constitution is defended only on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays and that which does not like the Constitution is constantly subject to mockery. Every time we have this debate in the courts we have the same canteen. Old laws, gentlemen of VOX, are Francoist laws; that is laws, and here we are talking about a law of the year 2002 - as its own name indicates, Law 12/2002-. [[Mr Figaredo Álvarez-Sala utters words that are not perceived]] We still have Francoist laws in this country, such as the one we questioned this very week, the Mining Act, which is 1973. That's an old law. This is a law emanating from the Constitution and the Statute of Autonomy. Therefore, clarify yourselves and know where you are. Be clear and know where they are, because it is tiring to have the same debate every time the Economic Concert in discussion appears. By the way, it is a concert that has a very broad consensus in the Basque Country, the consensus of all political forces. I do not know whether you are in favour or against, because you have not clarified it either; you have not dared to clarify it. Let's get to the subject we're dealing with. The second additional provision of the current Economic Concert, as you all know, provides that, in the event of a change in the legal system of taxation of the State, the relevant adaptation of the Economic Concert takes place; in particular, whether there is a change in the distribution of the regulatory powers that affect the scope of indirect taxation, the conclusion of taxes or their collection, or whether new tax figures are created. In this case, there are several amendments that are incorporated into the Law on Economic Concert, which we should welcome, as they reflect the updating of tax figures, such as VAT, to new forms of trade and digital consumption and, secondly, the concertation of new tax figures, which are a first step in the development of a tax system that includes digital and financial transactions that take place in the 21st century and require new regulatory developments and greater control. It is true that if we can put a but to this change is that it comes a little late. It would have been desirable if the Joint Commission's agreements had not been so long extended and that their incorporation into the Economic Concert had not been delayed. We have lost the opportunity that they would have been in force throughout the year 2021. Firstly, this amendment of the law transfers to the Economic Concert the European reform on the regulation of VAT in digital commerce, transpositions that have already been incorporated into the outside finances of the historical territories and which was supported by our group. With this reform, electronic commerce will no longer tax VAT in the country of origin, it will do so in the country in which the final product is purchased, with the tax values corresponding to that country. Secondly, three new tax figures were agreed, which have required lengthy meetings and discussions in this House and in the respective committees. These figures have made a great advance, after more than a decade of dizziness. The main European economies have decided to end the cat's rattlesnake and, although they are a step forward, they are not much less the end of the road. In Unity We can continue to work tirelessly to end the most speculative operations that have dominated the financial markets and, on too many occasions, the whole economy. The conclusion of the tax on financial transactions, also known as the Tobin tax, the tax on certain digital services and the VAT of electronic commerce is what the law requires us today. It is good news, because of the progress these tax figures make and because the framework of the Economic Concert and the Law of Historical Territories enjoy good health. But while we are pleased, we will also work to improve this framework that reflects the statute and the Constitution itself, doing so in the interests of greater transparency and a more secure framework with democracy and with the political plurality of our country. As regards the financial transaction tax, it should be recalled that the acquisitions of shares of listed companies with a stock value exceeding EUR 1 billion are taxed. Its implementation is expected to raise around €80.6 million in Vizcaya next year, more than €50 million in Guipúzcoa and about €25 million in Álava. But, as you know, the burden of this tax has never been mere collection, but to increase control and deter speculative movements in the financial markets. The digital services tax also charges 3 % of digital services for online advertising, online brokering and data transmission, and is expected to raise EUR 15 million for all historical territories and their respective estates. The application of this tax is essential, especially now. Thirdly, improvements in the functioning of the Board of Referees are being renewed and introduced. Certain improvements are incorporated in the extension of effects procedure in order to increase their speed and the legal certainty of the parties. In particular, it is possible for either party, and not only the person who has intervened in the dispute, to request that the outstanding dispute be supplemented by the extension of the effects of the final resolution and that the one-month period from the firmness of the decision of the Board of Referees be eliminated to request it. Finally, in the area of the quota determination methodology, the wording of Article 56 has been adapted to the modification of the compensations to be deducted from the quota introduced by Law 11/2017 of 28 December, which approves the methodology for the marking of the Basque Country quota for the five-year period 2017-2021. The reference to the revenues that finance the functions and services transferred to the Basque Country in the field of health and social services of the Social Security, which prior to the entry into force of this law were satisfied to the Basque Country by the transfer of the General Treasury of the Social Security, is therefore deleted. In this regard, our group will continue to work to ensure that the determination of the quota is made in the most transparent and democratic manner possible. This being the case, our group will vote in favour of the developments introduced by this agreement because it considers them timely and beneficial for Basque society and for the good health of the concert and for the relationship it establishes with the rest of the State. Thank you very much. Eskerrik asko. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-23-CD211223.u29	Thank you very much, Mr López de Uralde. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Garcés Sanagustín has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-23-CD211223.u30	Good morning, Madam President, Madam Vice President. Mr. Esteban, the other day when you were telling me in private - it's a conversation you can tell - that you don't have to lose perspective reminded me of a character from Camilo José Cela, dona Rosa, the owner of that Francoist café, who said: let's not lose perspective. Indeed, let us not lose sight of it. Let us not lose any of the political formations that we are here, none: neither those who permanently invoke the Constitution to deny the application of the Constitution, when the Basque concert and the convention with Navarra are legal or economic institutes of absolutely constitutional root and with a perfectly defined statutory framework; nor those who come to claim now, under an invocation, a change of financing, insulting the president of the Xunta de Galicia, something that did not come at all to heart. What we have to do is recognize the validity, the legitimacy of the legal institute of the concert. In that regard, therefore, our vote will be favourable. Now, gentlemen of the Basque Nationalist Party, let us not lose sight of it. First, let us not lose the historical perspective and, second, let us not lose the perspective of the present, because if we lose it, we all lose it, and here it has been quite lost in the last two and a half years. You know well how the perspective was lost, what the pact sunt servanda is with you and how it quickly failed. [[Rumors]] Yes, gentlemen, yes, that situation is and has led to what we are experiencing right now. Madam Minister, first of all I would like to congratulate the officials of the Ministry of Finance, as an agent I am, as an inspector of the Finance I am. It is very happy to come here to say that one is liberal and to say that calculations have been made improperly. If someone has done the calculation improperly, they will have incurred responsibility. Beware of what is loosed in this rostrum. I want to defend the work of the officials, because I may or may not agree with the methodology - there may be different methodologies, and now we will talk about it - but obviously you cannot come here, under the guise of liberal thought - I am liberal; that no one treasures and no one seizes liberal thought - and say that the officials of the Ministry of Finance are delinquent. I'm not going to accept that, but I'm already corporate. [[Applauds]] Let's go to the historical perspective. Let us remember how the first concert of the 1980s and 1981s was signed. I would like to recall the words of one of your predecessors, García Añoveros, a great finance minister, who said precisely that the raison d'être of the peaceful coexistence that the legal institution of the concert with the Basque Country had to have was, precisely, continued monitoring, transparency. We are going to ask for transparency in the calculation of the balance, as it cannot be otherwise, among other things because they are public funds and because there is a responsibility arising from the use of public funds. But while García Añoveros said that, I want to remember what Xabier Arzalluz said: It's going to be a long time before this war ends, but the concerts have to come here. How the Economic Concert was used to stress the relationship between the state and the Basque Country! I would also like to recall, on account of the visit to the Basque Country by King Juan Carlos I, what Mr Carlos Garaikoetxea came to say: The concert will have to come and the txapelgorris, the police, will have to come, in order to ensure that this is not a party, as it can be produced as if the concert did not come and the police did not come. I ask the Basque Nationalist Party not to use the concert systematically as an element of impulse, as an element of tension in relations, because they have used it at some point in their political career. I'm going to the present perspective. Indeed, this is a rule that comes to update the concert regime on the basis of the introduction of three tax figures. One of the figures is the VAT on consumption, the MOSS VAT, as it is said in the technique, in the technology, in the doctrine of the prosecutors. It is true that they use an argument, if I may say so, a bit frugal, a somewhat phony argument, and that is that they say: Well, it is necessary to introduce, in order to be able to improve the operation, the management of the tax in order to allow the location of the direct taxation in the destination of the taxpayer. Okay, but what's happened so far? There's been e-commerce. You should see how the system has operated to see exactly whether the balance is well calculated or not well calculated. I am convinced that they will have made those calculations, but, careful, that what is being corrected already existed, e-commerce already existed, and therefore there may have been misadjustments in calculating it. The second figure is the financial transaction tax. There the gentlemen of the PNV are consistent, because in their electoral program it was planned that the tax on financial transactions would be approved, with a hunch - I was hemorrhaging the trouble of looking at the electoral program of the Basque Nationalist Party - and it would not impact the tax on the users. It is impacting the tax on users, and this will also have to be explained to its voters. It is curious that you have joined this socialist religion in increasing taxes, and, of course, in that papal abduction that has suddenly made Yolanda Díaz to the pope in secret of confession, regarding the increase in taxes. But you have to see - for example, inverco says - that the profitability of long-term pension investment funds has been reduced by between 5.6% and 8%, precisely as a result of the introduction of these fees. And that's the way it is. They will have to explain it to their citizens. But I find it more curious - see - the tax on digital services, because that was not in their electoral program. You have to explain to me why you here, in the national Parliament, in the General Courts, are dedicated to supporting you all the tax increases of the Socialist Party. I do not know whether they do so, following the doctrine of point two of their general principles or their statutes, by humanism, if they do so by participation or if they do so by confessionality. I don't know why you know what's going on? That in Iparralde, in the French Basque Country, France withdrew the tax on digital transactions and right now a lord of Biarritz, for example, pays less taxes than a lord of Basauri, among other things because you have supported the taxes. Therefore, in that Basque archadia formed by the Pyrenees, which bends between the north and the south, some have one taxation and others have another different. Let's see how they explain it to us. [[Rumors]] Yeah, yeah, they'll explain to us that it's about sovereignism. And good management of public funds. I would like to recall a wonderful phrase by Carlos Garaikoetxea on the occasion of the establishment of the Oceanographic Institute in Gipuzkoa. He said: We have the means to establish the Oceanographic Institute in Gipuzkoa. And, quickly, the Bizkaia Provincial Council came out saying, "No, the institute is for us." There was even an argument to place the high school on that beach that is on the dividing line between Bizkaia and Gipuzkoa, right? Finally, do you know what happened? The Bizkaia Foral Diputation set up another institute in Txatxarramendi. That's the management of the funds. And I don't say it, says Carlos Garaikoetxea.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-23-CD211223.u31	Mr. Garcés, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-23-CD211223.u32	I'm done. I simply want to remind the Lehendakari Urkullo that when he talks about dumping, whether it's for shame, for God's sake or for old law, he stops attacking the Community of Madrid. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-23-CD211223.u33	Thank you very much, Mr. Garcés. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, Mr Senderos Oraá has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-23-CD211223.u34	Thank you, President. Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I will begin my speech by giving two strokes of what is and what the Economic Concert means, especially for those who in this House are permanently engaged in throwing at him, not knowing at times what they are talking about and at times confusing concert and quota. See, the Economic Concert is a unique system that regulates tax and financial relations between the State and the Basque Country, based on a commitment of loyalty between the two parties. This system - I say for those who give us lessons of constitutionalism every day - has its anchor in the first additional provision of the Constitution, which protects and respects the historical rights of the outlying territories. The capacity of the competent institutions to maintain, establish and regulate within their territory the tax system is therefore recognized, taking into account, as otherwise possible, the general tax structure of the State. Thus, the Economic Concert, together with the Statute of Guernica, form the basic pillars on which self-government is built in Euskadi. It is a self-government born of the pact between different, that allows us to manage our plurality and our diversity, and that, as I said before, for its proper functioning needs the loyalty of both. Therefore, the Concert Act itself provides for an agreement, among other things, to adapt it to changes in the state's tax system, which accepts the concertation of taxes. The General Administration of the State and the competent institutions of the Basque Country agreed to amend it, in accordance with the same procedure followed for its adoption, to adapt Law 12/2002 to changes in the state tax legislation as a result of changes in the value added tax and the introduction of the financial transaction tax, the tax on certain financial services and the tax on digital services. This is in accordance with the second additional provision of the Concert Act itself. In other words, this is an agreement that is embodied in a bill and that is framed within the Constitution, the status of autonomy, democratic normality and loyalty between the Basque and Spanish administrations. That simple, ladies and gentlemen. That is what we are debating today in this House, the fulfillment of what our Magna Charter establishes. Because defending a Constitution a la carte, i.e., I respect and fulfill what I like and what I don't like I don't do, it's not being constitutionalist, that's being exploited, not to say a cynical. [[applause]] Defending the concert is not defending any privileges, ladies and gentlemen of Citizens. That is why the Socialists defend the concert and, at the same time, a fair and equitable system of financing for all the autonomous communities. For socialists the autonomous communities are synonymous with a welfare state, far from being a waste, as some say, so, constitutionalist lordships of the People's Party, whenever you want, you can start to comply with the Constitution by unlocking the General Council of the Judiciary. [[Applauds]] And, ladies and gentlemen of Vox, what do you say? It is logical and normal that you do not support this amendment of the Law of the Basque Economic Concert, because you do not believe in a plural and diverse Spain and less in the state of autonomy, that is, you do not believe in Spain as it is, but in that in which only those who think like you are fit. On the contrary, the Socialist Party will always defend the diversity of our country, in which the sum of its different singularities makes us all better: languages, cultures, traditions and identities, all added up to be stronger as a country and as a society And they will never find us in those in which instead of adding divide. [[Applauds]] That is why we will vote in favour of this law, because it is born of our Constitution and the Statute of Guernica, symbols of a democracy that knows how to manage our diversity. Eskerrik asko. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-23-CD211223.u35	Thank you very much, Mr. Senderos.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-23-CD211223.u36	We now turn to the agenda item on the opinions of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on international conventions with dossier numbers 110/000079 to 110/000081. No group has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-23-CD211223.u37	We turn to the point of committee opinions on legislative initiatives, and in particular the proposal for an organic law to improve the protection of orphans who are victims of gender-based violence. As an organic law, this initiative must be put to a final vote, which, in accordance with Rule 131.2 of the Rules of Procedure, must be announced in advance by the Presidency. Therefore, in compliance with this provision and bearing in mind that, as agreed by the Bureau of the House, all matters on the agenda of this plenary meeting will be voted in full telematics, he announced to them that the time limit for voting on the outstanding issues, including the final vote on this initiative, will begin following the debate on the opinion of the draft law on contaminated waste and soil for a circular economy. To defend the amendments and, where appropriate, the particular votes cast on this legislative initiative, Mrs Giménez Giménez has the floor by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-23-CD211223.u38	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, since we have records in Spain, 1122 victims of gender-based violence have been recorded. From 1 January 2003 until today, the number of orphans due to male-based violence would exceed 770 cases. Ladies and gentlemen, in the face of denialism, the evidence of the data; against the lack of humanity, the personal history of these 1122 women, of these 1122 families broken up by a crime, much more so even if we add the drama of the enormous number of women who suffer daily this scourge without at the moment widening the black list but with real and tangible fear of doing so on any day of these. The bill before us introduces a number of legal changes aimed at the protection of orphaned children who are victims of gender-based violence, especially those who, for economic reasons, are in a vulnerable situation. Who can be against protecting and making life a little easier for minors who have seen how their mothers were killed by sexist violence? It might seem like a rhetorical question, but I do it literally by thinking of the names and surnames of those who refuse to support such a just and necessary advance. After women, minors are the most important group that has been recognized in the agreements and measures provided for in the State Covenant against Gender Violence. Specifically, this agreement contains four measures, already implemented, for minors orphaned by sexist violence and a comprehensive section dedicated to intensifying the care and protection of minors. Let us go through parts to see what contains the proposal we are working on today. First, the text we are discussing has a specific purpose, which is to facilitate access to inheritance for children whose mothers were victims of gender-based violence through the modification of the mechanism to liquidate the society of the profiteers in cases of women killed by sexist violence. We also have a new tax benefit to free orphans from the obligation to pay the tax on onerous transmissions and documented legal acts, which is a huge economic burden for them, in some cases even by preventing them from paying their own compensation. Another amendment is also made to the Royal Legislative Decree 2/2004 of 5 March, approving the consolidated text of the Local Finance Regulation Act, to exempt children orphaned by gender-based violence from the payment of the tax on the increase in the value of urban land. Part of the General Social Security Act has also been amended in the course of this text, specifically with regard to the recognition of the right to orphanhood for male-based violence against children whose mothers were killed by gender-based violence, even if the cause was not their parent. And with all this, we agree, ladies and gentlemen. With regard to the work we have done since Citizens, we Liberals have tabled a number of amendments aimed at broadening and making more ambitious the content of this bill to improve the comprehensive protection of all child victims of violence. Therefore, in compliance with the State Covenant against Gender Violence, we are committed to amending the Basic Law on Education with the aim of establishing educational and educational care programmes for children and children or minors subject to guardianship, custody and custody of victims of gender-based violence, and we also proposed the amendment of article 1 of the Organic Law regulating comprehensive protection against gender-based violence with the aim of improving the protection of minors who are victims of gender-based violence and those who exercise their guardianship. With regard to the initial text presented by the Socialist Group, we have already stated on several occasions the need to extend the mechanism for the settlement of the income tax regime and the tax benefits for children whose parent had been killed by the mother. Although we are also well aware that violence in the family sphere, murder in the family sphere is committed by men, we believe that the situation of vulnerability in which the child remains is perfectly comparable in this case. Returning to the question from the beginning about who may be against the equalization of the situation of vulnerability in which these minors remain and their need for protection and help both if the killer is a man and if he is a woman, don't think about it anymore, I tell you and I believe that common sense dictates it: both cases are perfectly comparable. If we think of the best interests of the child, I think that weak favor we do if we do not protect all the children who are in this unfortunate situation. As I said, it has been objectively demonstrated by the evidence that violence against women leaves minors orphaned in a very harsh situation, but in this regard we should also protect cases where the father is killed, albeit less, since we believe that it is not fair to differentiate because of the sex of the killer and the murdered, but rather to protect the minors, who are the objective victims. I think it is important, from the perspective of equality, not to differentiate in this case, but to see the best interests of the child, in order to protect and benefit all minors who may find themselves in this unfortunate situation. We're not the ones to differentiate between first and second victims. The death and horror that results from the drama of the murder of a mother or father must prevail when we talk about an issue like the one we discussed in this initiative. That is why we believe that our amendment makes the proposal fairer, focusing on those who really need it, on those who really should guide our political action above the prejudices of ideologies, on objective victims, in this case minors. This law is good and necessary, and we believe that with this amendment it would be much better. Let us help ourselves and help ourselves to truly protect all minors. We have to put aside the prejudices and we have to join in this. I think it's easy to unite in this cause. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-23-CD211223.u39	Thank you very much, Mrs Giménez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Toscano de Balbín has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-23-CD211223.u40	Ladies and gentlemen, stop taking the name of the woman in vain, stop taking the name of the children in vain. Its proposal for a law, which ensures that it aims to improve and resolve the economic regime of orphaned children of mothers only in the event that they have been murdered by a man, is nothing more than feminist propaganda. I want to tell you, Mrs Giménez, what a welcome to VOX, a welcome to common sense. [[Mrs. Giménez Giménez makes negative gestures]] The obvious question is: Why should one look after the interests of a man's murdered mother orphans alone? What problem do you have with article 14 of the Constitution, which enshrines the equality of all Spaniards before the law? What have orphans of a father killed at the hands of a woman or a man or orphans of a mother murdered by a woman done to you? Are they less orphans? Ladies and gentlemen, it is so fatal for a child to lose a father as to lose a mother, regardless of who the aggressor is. Children are a particularly vulnerable group in society because they need an environment of unconditional care, respect and love in order to be able to develop in full, especially painful is the case of minors who live or suffer violence in their homes for whom they have a duty to protect them. As politicians we are responsible for any child who has suffered violence in his or her home, for any child who has lost one of his or her parents living in the best possible conditions helping him or her to alleviate or overcome the tragedy, and I say any child, without distinctions of any kind. Ladies and gentlemen, do a little imagination exercise, bring your minds and especially your hearts to an orphan of a murdered father; bring that child in need of help before you, look into your eyes, full of tears, and say to him: As your father has been murdered, we do not protect you. [[Applauds]] So cruel is this proposed law, radically unjust and discriminatory. This proposal is not only unconstitutional, it is also morally unsustainable in disregarding the pain and needs of a minor orphan according to the sex of the murdered parent. Ladies and gentlemen, the proposal is intrinsically perverse for the reasons I have just put forward, but since they have put on the table the need to protect minors, let us talk about vulnerable minors. Are we talking about prostituted girls in the Balearic Islands when they were under the tutelage of the regional socialist government? What if we talk about the children of Juana Rivas, and more specifically about her son, who was not only kidnapped, but also sexually abused? You and your feminist associations, what did you do? They knew it and they shut up. What do you intend to do about minors who are victims of parental alienation, who suffer that the woman, that the mother manipulates them to hate their father? You are not going to do anything because, if children are abused or kidnapped by a woman, you shut up; even, you can get to reward the offender with a pardon. [[Applauds]] If children are prostituted under a government of their acronyms, they remain silent. If children are manipulated by a woman, they shut up. Any brizna of right intention is unmasked in your proposal, ladies and gentlemen, unmasked from the moment that they promote nothing less than as a right the murder of children in the belly of adder. [[Applauds]] The reality is that you children care about a curse but need them, consider them mere pieces of your social engineering gear to build that sick and crazy world that is that of gender ideology. They need to corrupt them and do not hesitate to incite them to sexual practices when they are not even aware of their sexuality. His proposal - it is evident - does not seek to protect children. Its only goal is to build up forces in the feminist offensive to criminalize man, and there is no more. This proposal is part of a global project to transform society that aims to destroy the human being and the family and pervert the image of men and women. They want to destroy the anthropology that recognizes the diversification of the person into man and woman and that in their sexuality bears the mark of vocation to love and mutual surrender. And you, gentlemen of the People's Party, are once again complicit. Let the Spaniards know of your cowardice, let the Spaniards know that you have voted against a child's protection equally if he is father or mother's orphan, let him know that voting for you is voting for the sectarian and totalitarian policies of the left. [[Applauds]] VOX is going to abstain because it is in favour of protecting children, but not some, all; of protecting them from the violence they suffer and the consequences of being orphaned by any of their parents, because it is not worth less one child than another. We want to protect children from violence, from their indoctrination, from their corruption of minors, from their talk about masturbation, from their propaganda so that they lose their identity and do not know who they are, from their campaigns to feel that because they are children they are violent, from the deadly trap that sometimes involves the mother's womb. We want children who are happy, pure, innocent, free of indoctrination at the hands of power, children who can go out in peace and trust, children who grow in wisdom, values and goodness, children who know that they can trust their father and mother because they are both necessary for their development, children who are educated in freedom under the criteria of their parents by natural right and because it is enshrined in the Constitution, everything you reject. Providence has wanted this debate to take place the day before the celebration of the only birth that has changed the course of history, that of a God who for us becomes a child to announce the triumph of good, truth and beauty in the face of evil and who in his smallness reveals to us the dignity and greatness of every human being. That child should bring all children light and hope, all children suffering, and that politicians should bring us light to make righteous laws. And to all men and women of good will, of heart, I wish you a very happy and holy Christmas. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-23-CD211223.u41	Thank you very much, Mrs. Toscano. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, I have the floor, Mrs Álvarez Fanjul. Mrs ÁLVAREZ FANJUL: Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I take the floor again in this Congress to give voice to the problems surrounding the little ones. There have been many crimes that have affected our children throughout this turbulent legislature, and it is a real responsibility for me to take up these debates and take the floor to improve their situation. I have already shown it in my last speech in the Chamber and I want to reiterate today: no one can profile when a child's life is at stake, we need unity. Our children deserve to live up to the circumstances, but not only to the orphans, whom we are going to talk about today, but to each and every one of them, without exception, also to those who were not protected by those who had the legal obligation to do so, because, ladies and gentlemen, the guardianship girls who were sexually abused in Baleares and the Valencian Community were also vulnerable, surely one of them was an orphan or her family could not take care of her. And the little Canet de Mar did have parents who protected him, but the public institutions have been pointing him out and marking him as different for months, when he is not; the different, the abusers, the sectarians were them. [[The lady]] Before focusing on the proposed organic law that we are discussing today, I think it is necessary to look back: first, towards the origin, the 2017 State Pact against Gender Violence. We discuss it together, we agree and we show everyone that understanding is possible; concessions by many, but when people are in the center, the rest doesn't matter, and when that person is vulnerable, less so. It is a pity that the Ministry of Equality, led by the United Nations Podemos, is more concerned to impose its feminist and sectarian agenda than in its implementation or that we have been without seeing the minister in the Commission for the follow-up to the State Pact against Gender Violence since May 2020. Meanwhile, they're still killing women. And I use it to send a strong hug to the families of the last four murdered women, especially to the family of the murdered woman along with her 11-month-old baby. But next 2022 is going to portray them all, now that we have to start working on the continuity of it. Children, abused women, rather than collectives who throw each other at each other's heads, are people with a hard and difficult history behind them, and I think the least they deserve is that we feel like we are debating seriously, without chrispation and always thinking about defending the interests of those who suffer the most. But, I insist, it is necessary to sit down to debate and show a minimum of respect for this House and the rest of the parliamentary groups. Secondly and the result of the pact, of which his lordships refused, was approved in 2019, with the favorable vote of the People's Parliamentary Group, a bill to improve the orphan status of the children of the fatal victims of gender violence, but these pensions were very limited, according to the report provided to us by the Soledad Cazorla Tax Scholarship Fund and the Women's Foundation, around one hundred and fifty euros, while we find many cases of families whose applications were denied due to the lack of contributions of the murdered mothers. It was therefore a law based on a situation of unprotected and vulnerable children of victims who had not contributed enough to Social Security and who sought to increase the amount of orphan suspensions. The rule also created a new benefit for cases where insufficient pension could not be reached and it was decided to start with retroactive effects, i.e. it sought to care for all minors in that situation, and we are talking about 259 orphans at the time. I have no doubt that all of us here consider this rule to be a positive step forward, and I have no doubt that we will do so today too. The last report published last year proposed a number of changes that the proposing group has endorsed in this proposed organic law. We are talking about situations that had been left out, and that is why today we are trying to improve and update it, first, in relation to those minors whose father was not the one convicted of murder, and, second, in relation to cases of families who adopt orphan children as a result of a crime of gender-based violence, since they cease to be orphans or in relation to difficulties in dealing with taxes arising from the payment of inheritance if they exist and the need for all these issues to be dealt with in the same court, that of gender-based violence, which would give judgment. Therefore, and since it cannot be otherwise, our position is in favour of adopting it without introducing elements that distort the object or main purpose of this matter, which is to improve the situation of these children who are so ill-treated at such an early age. Frankly, we do not believe that it is the time or the normative text that has to be debated, because these children do not deserve it. Our vote against the rest of the amendments does not mean that we are against what is proposed, but we believe that it does not fit into this text. The presentation accepted some of the amendments of the People's Parliamentary Group related precisely to the work carried out in the State Pact and we are satisfied with the result, although our goal is always to improve. Thank you very much. Merry Christmas. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-23-CD211223.u42	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Pozueta Fernández is speaking first of all in the position-fixing session of the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-23-CD211223.u43	Thank you, Madam President. Egun where you're going. Briefly, I would like to recall, as we said in our consideration of this law in June last year, that we see the content of this law as appropriate and necessary in terms of reparation to orphans for violence against women. We share the improvements made, which are a necessary complement to the provisions of Organic Law 1/2004 of 28 December of comprehensive protection measures against gender-based violence. It is set out in parameters of justice, and we therefore consider it acceptable and necessary. We share that the daughters and children of women who suffer macho violence are victims and must be provided with legal, social and economic tools for justice and reparation. We are clear that we must continue to fight against macho violence in all its expressions, and our goal must be that no creature should be orphaned as a result of macho violence. We shall vote in favour. Mila esker.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-23-CD211223.u44	Thank you very much, Mrs. Pozueta. For the Basque Parliamentary Group EAJ-PNV, Mr Agirretxea Urresti has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-23-CD211223.u45	Thank you, Madam President. I am speaking very briefly to say only that we will vote in favour of the opinion of this law and we will not support the amendments tabled, because we believe that they are not in what was requested, that it is a very specific issue and a very concrete amendment of legislation that was unfair. If the situation suffered and lived by the orphans of gender-based violence is already unfair, what we could not do, as we said in the Commission, is that the bureaucracy was even more unjust with these people who unfortunately had to live what they live. So, as far as the law is concerned, we have nothing more to add. Finally, since this is the second time I have heard members of the same party say that we are going to remember the Child who was born in Bethlehem, I have to say that those who refused to welcome a woman who had nothing and had to give birth in a manger are the same ones who defend that we must not welcome other people who, unfortunately, come from the same places and with the same situations in order to seek a better future. Eguberri on guztioi. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-23-CD211223.u46	Thank you so much. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Miquel i Valentí spoke first.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-23-CD211223.u47	Thank you, President. I am speaking very briefly to establish my group's position, which will be to vote in favour of the initiative, while we will support some of the amendments that have been tabled. We are not doing this, as Mrs Toscano said, because this law is morally unsustainable. Actually, Your Honor, the majority of morally unsustainable issues I have heard in this House came from your parliamentary group. We will do so because we believe that this law should focus on the child, on equality and on the rights of the child, and we believe that some amendments tabled by the Citizens and People's groups are in that direction and will count on the support of our group. Someone will say that this law is certainly not necessary because it affects only twenty-six minors in what we have been doing this year, but I would say, ladies and gentlemen, that with it affecting one, it is worth spending time to repair an unjust and painful situation that needs this Congress and the entire administration to put itself at your service so that it does not have consequences on the development of your life. As I said, we believe that the law can be improved with the amendments tabled by Citizens and the People's Parliamentary Group. We believe that it is important not to discriminate against children either by the development of their situation or by the consequences that may arise from it. They will therefore count on our support, as well as support for the final text. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen, and Merry Christmas.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-23-CD211223.u48	Thank you very much, Mr. Miquel. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Baldoví Roda spoke on behalf of the same parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-23-CD211223.u49	Thank you very much, President. I simply intervene to express our agreement and vote in favour of the law. There are times when the laws affect a small number of citizens, but they are not less important, especially when they are citizens who have suffered as much damage as it is the loss of their mother and also of their father - who eventually ends up in prison - and therefore they are left without references. I believe that these little ones deserve all the protection of the State and all the facilities that can be granted to them, both for a pension and for access to the inheritance of their mother. We therefore express our agreement and vote in favour of a law which - I insist - is very necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-23-CD211223.u50	Thank you very much, Mr. Baldoví. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, I have the floor, Mrs López Domínguez.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-23-CD211223.u51	Ladies and gentlemen, good morning despite the barbarities we have heard in the last few minutes. As far as the year goes, forty-two women have been killed by sexist violence - the last only five days ago in Orihuela - six minors have been killed for the same reason and twenty-eight minors have been orphaned. On behalf of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, I would like to express our strongest rejection of all forms of violence against women and I would also like these words to serve as a tribute to all women and children and children who are victims of violence against women. I would also like to thank the tireless work of the entire feminist movement and, in particular, of the Cazorla Soledad Scholarship Fund. I would also like to acknowledge the work done by my colleagues Sofia Castañón and Isa Franco in the presentation of the draft law that we are dealing with today and to extend this recognition to all the colleagues of the other parliamentary groups who have worked positively so that today we have the opportunity to carry out this project. I also feel obliged to remember that denying the existence of structural inequality between men and women, denying the existence of violence against women simply because they are women is also violence against women. In this sense, I must cast my strongest reproach on everyone who, with his negationist discourse, contributes to the perpetuation of this structural inequality that causes so much pain in our society. But I also want to remind you that you won't stop us. The feminist movement will always be there to help make our streets a safe and just place for all women. Today we are faced with another milestone achieved thanks to the feminist movement and the commitment of the Government in general and of this particular group. We believe that this legislative amendment will remedy an injustice to orphans and orphans who are victims of gender-based violence. We would like it to have arrived earlier, since already in 2016 the Cazorla Soledad Scholarship Fund made known in this House the added difficulties faced by minors and relatives of murdered women. It was also one of the great consensuses of the State Pact against Gender Violence signed in September 2017 and reissued by all the sensible forces of this House. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-23-CD211223.u52	Wait a minute, Mrs. Lopez.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-23-CD211223.u53	This is a step forward so that orphans and orphans of women killed simply because they are women can, to the extent possible, overcome and be repaired their special vulnerability. The reform of articles 807 et seq. of the Civil Prosecution Act to explicitly regulate the legitimization of the heirs of the deceased victim in order to call for the liquidation of the matrimonial regime, the attribution of powers to the courts of violence against women when the heirs demand the liquidation of the regime on behalf of their deceased mother as a result of acts of gender violence, the introduction of a new tax benefit of an objective nature to facilitate access to recognized orphanhood benefits, or the modification of orphanhood benefits related to death when women are victims of gender violence are some of the changes introduced by this law and that improve as far as possible the plight of orphans and orphans of gender violence. Our commitment and our goal is to end all forms of violence against women, but as long as structural inequalities between men and women continue to exist, we have a duty as a society and as public representatives to accompany the victims. This proposal for a law goes in this direction and for this it will count on the support of our group. It is one more step in our commitment that is in addition to all the progress towards the consolidation of a new generation of feminist rights in Spain that is being promoted by the Ministry of Equality, such as the Corresponsible Plan, the real equality of trans persons, the guarantee of the rights of LGBT persons, or the one so demanded and announced this week by the Minister of Equality modification of the system of counting feminicides that will help the visibility of this social scourge, will recognize all the victims and will place Spain at the forefront of the fight against feminicides in line with the Istanbul Convention, because it will place Spain as the first European country to account formally for all feminicides. Ladies and gentlemen, take care. These Christmases remember that health passes by protecting us from the coronavirus, but also by protecting us all from violence against women. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-23-CD211223.u54	Thank you very much, Mrs. Lopez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much. For the Socialist Group, Mrs Guinart Moreno has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-23-CD211223.u55	Thank you, President. David and his wife adopted his niece when she became an orphan as a baby. Her father had murdered her mother and, after the adoption, the little girl was left without an orphan's pension. David does not regret at all having adopted his niece - quite the contrary - although the way has not been easy. It has had to face a multitude of judicial, criminal, civil and administrative processes. She thinks that even if she has a father and a mother who love her, the girl will never stop being an orphan of gender-based violence. This proposal for a law that we bring for adoption today is a remedy for the harm done to the girl child. We are here to improve people's lives, not to falsify reality, not to make dialectic traps or empty circumloquies! We are not even here to represent only those who voted for us, let alone to give our ears to a few at the expense of the suffering of many others. The facts are the facts and tell us that we are facing a real tragedy that plagues the world, that of macho terrorism, an epidemic that has taken the lives of three women and an eleven-month-old baby in recent days - and with a few hours apart - has seriously wounded another woman and killed her current partner. The Socialists and we are very clear: we do not resign ourselves to gender-based violence, but we are outraged and fought against it. When it is in our hands to improve the lives of vulnerable people, we do so and, moreover, always by the hand of civil society. Feminism has historically pushed great legal reforms that the Socialist Party has promoted. The proposal for a law whose opinion of the Commission we are debating today is an example of this. There are 334 orphans who since 2013 have left gender-based violence in this country, 28 this year alone. Each of them deserves the respect of each and every one of the Members of this House and, of course, deserves to be legislated so that, to the extent possible and beyond political disputes, their lives are a little less complicated. Families that host orphans of gender-based violence face not only the pain caused by the dramatic loss - which is capital - but in many cases they also have to face bureaucratic complications of various kinds. Fundación Mujeres is the entity that manages, together with the family of the deceased prosecutor, Soledad Cazorla, the scholarship fund that bears his name. By the way, a hug from here and our thanks. He has been the author of the report which blacks on white the different obstacles faced by these families. Those are the difficulties that this bill seeks to solve. We want to ensure access to pensions and benefits for a larger number of orphans and to make greater reparation for the damage done to them, preventing situations of poverty arising after the killing of women for macho violence. In the process we have incorporated the auto amendments of our parliamentary group together with the Confederal Group of the United Nations We can, which improve the initial text, and two amendments of the People's Parliamentary Group for the same reason. The rest of the amendments we have rejected, yes, because at all times we have preserved the object of the law and have gone by the hand of the Women's Foundation. First of all, I would like to thank the overwhelming majority of parliamentary groups for their willingness to debate and adopt this bill. With it we comply with the State Covenant against Gender Violence, facilitate access to compensation and inheritance, expedite the dissolution of the matrimonial society of profiteers and assign competence to the courts of violence against women. In addition, this proposed law provides for the possibility of tax exemptions and makes the collection of the orphan's pension compatible with adoption in cases of low income. Children of women killed by men who are not their parents shall be entitled to an orphan's benefit or pension in situations of vulnerability. It also introduces the presumption of abandonment of family responsibility in certain cases where the father is missing. In short, the measures contained in this law complement the provisions of Law 3/2019 on the improvement of the situation of orphans of the daughters and children of victims of gender-based violence, which already involved a before and after in the situation of these persons. We can name suffering and, more importantly, we can and must remedy the suffering that causes us to face economic difficulties caused by bureaucratic obstacles when your mother has just been murdered. Ivana and Edgar are two young orphans and victims of gender-based violence. They witnessed how his father shot his mother to death. They face problems of access to wealth, insurance, bank accounts and it is thanks to the scholarships of the Soledad Cazorla Fund that they have been able to enroll in the university. In 2018, Javier had to take care of his nephews, eight and twelve years old, and his own father. A sexist killer ended the life of his sister and mother in Vitoria. The killer is in prison and from the prison he has sold a flat so that the children cannot perceive any inheritance that will alleviate their economic situation. Javier says: Machist murders are like an expansive wave that destroys everything. They end the lives of women, also destroying the lives of their loved ones, but the most harmed are orphans; they and they are the great ones forgotten by justice and the rest of the institutions. [[Applauds]] We want to fix it, Javier, and we're going to do it! We have that duty and that responsibility! This bill goes for them, goes for them, for the 334 orphans and for the 1124 murdered women. Ladies and gentlemen, we owe you. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-23-CD211223.u56	Thank you very much, Mrs. Guinart. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] - Draft Waste and Lands Contamined Law for a Circular Economy [[PRESENT NAMED DRAFT RESIDUE LAW AND CONTAMINATED SOLUTIONS]] [[File number 121/000056]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-23-CD211223.u57	We move on to the next item on the agenda. Opinion of the Waste and Contaminated Soils Bill for a Circular Economy, formerly known as the Waste and Contaminated Soils Bill. To defend the amendments that have been maintained, I have the floor, first of all, by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Guitarte Gimeno.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-23-CD211223.u58	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Teruel There is going to support the final text which, from the Commission, has been articulated for this draft law on contaminated waste and soil. Many of the effects and impacts of waste end up in different ways in rural areas. Therefore, we need the principles and practices of the circular economy to be a characteristic of the sparsely populated areas. For this purpose, Teruel Existe has put forward an amendment which has finally been negotiated. It is about applying the technology that allows the generation of biogas and biomethane from purines, which, as you know, is a by-product of livestock. In this way, this biogas can be used as a source of energy on livestock farms and can also be injected into the network or distributed through deposits. It is a practice that, curiously, is very widespread in Europe and just in Spain and that the livestock territories, as is the case of Aragon, need to unite two objectives: on the one hand, to obtain a new source of energy from a livestock by-product and to generate a new source of income and, at the same time, to reduce the impact on the territory caused by the purines. Unfortunately, in Spain so far, as I have said, it has not developed. However, we recall that there are facilities prepared to apply this technology that have been stopped for years, as in Matarraña, Teruel. Similarly, the Government of Aragon has just declared an autonomous biomethane plant in Vencilón, Huesca. These and other energy installations are based precisely on the amendment that Teruel Existe has promoted on obtaining biogas and biomethane and its injection into the network. The aim is to apply in Spain the European Union's vision on biogas and biomethane and to adapt this new law to address some of the problems of the rural environment. We believe that this is a very important step, because by doing so we are able to revalue this by-product of the livestock sector through the circular economy, generating renewable energy and at the same time decisively tackling the problem of soil and aquifer pollution. We also believe that a greater effort should have been made during the process of this law to ensure the responsible involvement of local governments, small businesses and all citizens in the objectives proposed from the outset. It is a law that surely requires the proactive commitment of citizens and businesses, both to reduce waste and to collaborate in its treatment and incorporation into the circular economy. In this regard, Article 61 establishes the need for the competent authorities to adopt awareness-raising campaigns. Part of the success of the measures pursued by the law will lie precisely in ensuring that each and every one of the people in the daily behaviors act responsibly on the waste. This will require systematic assessment of the specific objectives of the law, which is not easy to achieve. Perhaps we should also listen to those who propose that the circular economy of packaging be ordered in a manner similar to the functioning of energy communities. Finally, I would like to point out that we are concerned about complaints about the volume of waste and plastics, as well as about the obsolescence of the recycling business model in Spain. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-23-CD211223.u59	Thank you very much, Mr. Guitarte. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the same group, Mr Botran Pahissa has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-23-CD211223.u60	Thank you, President. Today an important law is passed for the challenge of the ecological crisis, as was the climate change law in its day; and, as on that occasion, an opportunity is lost and a law is made far below the need for waste reduction. That is worrying, because this Government presents itself as the most progressive that could be given in the context of the Spanish State and yet this law is not as progressive as it should be, as was the Climate Change Act at the time. In fact, today we will not be the only left-wing force that does not support this law, and the Government is going to push it forward with a abstention from the People's Parliamentary Group. One should ask why a party like the PP, which did not vote in favour of almost nothing from the government, today facilitates this law to come forward, when it is precisely the autonomous communities governed by the PP that have the worst figures in terms of responsibility for recycling. Of course, the law contains progress - it would only be missing! - but far below what is needed; even more so given that the Spanish State is, within the European Union, the one that brings the most tons of waste to landfills, and this has meant that they open up a sanctioning file because it is failing to comply with all the recycling commitments. This context would require a courageous law, a state-of-the-art law, a law that recovers all the time lost to the present or even a law that, if it did not want to be so bold, at least laid the right foundation for the autonomous communities to reach where the central government does not arrive. None of that, however, is what we have found in the final result of the text. We have tabled a number of amendments to give voice also to the claims of Alliance Residuo Zero, which went, for example, by setting waste reduction targets; not by recycling, but directly by reducing waste, by packaging. We propose a 20% reduction in 2030 - that seemed to us to be what was necessary for that vanguardism, to recover the lost time - but none of that has entered. We also propose a ban on planned obsolescence, i.e. that companies take products out of the market that know they are perishable with the aim of selling more after a short time. Household appliances are an example of this, but also fast fashion, i.e. poor quality clothing, of which many brands in the Spanish state are promoters and pioneers. Given that the textile industry is the second most polluting, fast fashion should also be an objective to stop generating waste. Finally, the amendments we tabled were in line with what I said before: a basic law that would allow the autonomous communities more scope. At the end there are no reduction targets, there is nothing close to banning planned obsolescence - for example - and, as far as the autonomous communities are concerned, there has even been a clear invasion of competences in the waste canon that Catalonia is applying. That finally leads all the independence forces to vote no; no longer to an abstention for insufficient, but to a no for invasion of competences. So we do not trust that this law will transform what is necessary, but at least we trust that the autonomous parliaments will legislate and comply with the necessary commitments, as was done in the Balearic Islands in its day with a very pioneering waste law that should be updated, and that Catalonia and the Valencia Country will also be able to make laws that will arrive where unfortunately this Spanish law has not arrived. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-23-CD211223.u61	Thank you very much, Mr. Botran. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-23-CD211223.u62	Thank you, President. I am speaking very briefly to say that my group supports the amendments that we have left alive. I also announce to you our vote in favour of the law, which comes to transpose the Community directives on waste reduction and to achieve their efficient treatment, especially through the principles of proximity and closeness. In the case of the Basque Parliamentary Group, we have managed to negotiate many amendments whose objectives were mainly material, but also to preserve local and autonomous competences. I believe there has been a shared effort to improve the law. Perhaps, as has been said here, it could have been more ambitious, but I believe that we have struck a balance between what the various political groups are asking for. That is why we are going to support the law and, as I said at the beginning, I support the amendments.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-23-CD211223.u63	Thank you very much, Mrs. Sagastizabal. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Martínez Granados has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-23-CD211223.u64	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, in recent times we have heard the members of the government talk a lot about circular economy and they will allow me to remember the work of Yolanda Díaz on this; pompous work that seemed very complicated, but that was very clear about one thing: the vice president of Podemos had no idea what she was talking about. He said that we have heard a lot about circular economy, but in no case the way in which we conceived the Spanish liberals that it should be: inseparable from innovation, scientific progress and technical progress in industrial processes. Can we talk about circular economy without considering R & D? Yes, you can, but under no circumstances is it intended to achieve better and more efficient waste management that we generate. Ladies and gentlemen, innovation is always a challenge for our society, but it can be even greater in the case of waste. It is not unthinkable that a leading industrial process can be achieved in this area but that, because of its small dimensions, it is not economically viable. For this reason - apart from the liberal principles that we defend in our project since it was born -, in Citizens we consider it essential to maintain market unity and harmonized rules throughout the national territory to create the crop stock necessary for scientific and technical development. This is the correct order of the transition to a more circular economy: first, innovation followed by sustainability. To neglect the first to get the second does not cease to be to start the house on the roof, a mere declaration of intentions that will achieve nothing, except more frustration. We already know that this government does not mind abusing propaganda or playing with the frustration of citizens if it scratches a few votes with it, but what we have in our hands is a very serious matter. Returning to the unity of the market - which is an essential necessity that combines freedom and equality, the two pillars of our project - you will recognize me that it would serve very little for a company to develop a very avant-garde process - let us put, in La Rioja - if it has no way of exporting it to the rest of Spain and Europe or of benefiting from the waste generated in other territories. It is therefore fair to recognize the benefits of progress, such as the presumption of validity in the rest of the autonomous communities, unless expressly stated against it, but we would have liked greater ambition; for example, that the Ministry for the Ecological Transition automatically had the power and obligation to homogenize criteria in case of dissenting opinions between the autonomous communities or to favour with flexibility the nearest processing plants. Ladies and gentlemen, it is very frustrating to see how time runs and bipartisanism continues with its little pasties, doing little things, but always dragging your feet. With the ideas and the desire to work that the liberals have, it is angered to see that this project could have been much more, that it is a project where ideology has had a lot of weight and they have not had the progress that we need to achieve the goals that the climate change law sets for us. Apart from this purely pragmatic argument, there is another substance: the evidence that Spanish society has changed a lot in the last ten years since the current Waste Act was passed. The awareness of the Spaniards with building a more sustainable economic model is much greater today than yesterday, and with this greater awareness also comes greater demands on the public authorities and the norms we adopt. I must admit that the Liberals are concerned that the political debate on the environment and sustainability does not revolve around how to achieve these objectives, but that the parties, on both sides, again embark on an ideological battle. We believe that the ecological transition should not be in that ideological battle, but in a joint struggle to see the path to achieving the goals as soon as possible. It is no longer important, but it is essential to avoid falling into a marketing operation, because the smoke of empty propaganda that we are used to with this government, even by omission or circumvention of problems, leads us to delay in achieving many objectives. There is no point in setting great goals if nothing is done to seek unambitious consensus or goals that in practice involve a small achievement or a couple of headlines in the press. We have to be ambitious, but I think we're going to be short with this law. Here is the difficult thing: to find that point that is ambitious, without falling into complacency, but that is a achievable goal. We tell them, from the liberal political center of Citizens: at the center is virtue. I'll give you an example. The return and return deposit system for some had to be implemented, but others did not want to hear about this deposit. All pure positioning and replenishment. Seeing how the debate began, we must recognize that in the end the approach is put where it should be, conditioned on objectives and not on the media and, much less, on prejudice. We would have liked, however, that this that was achieved with SDDR would have been transferred to the whole of the law. All public policies should be based on the achievement of objectives, scientific evidence and technical capacity. It seems a lie that we have to be pointing this out at this point. Doubt, scepticism and concern are not signs of a lack of commitment, but the greatest symptom of commitment to rigor. Ladies and gentlemen, environmental sustainability is a global problem and therefore requires global solutions. This is no problem for those of us who believe in an open and consensus society. In the case of this law, it should be emphasized that it would be unacceptable to outsource the problems. There is no point, for example, in banning a specific technique or producing a particular product if we then allow it to be imported from abroad. We would be destroying employment in Spain to create it in another country with fewer regulations and, above all, without solving the fundamental question: the energy transition and the reduction of waste and CO2 emissions. There is also a need for coordination between Spain and the rest of the European Union and, within Spain, between the autonomous communities. For all the above, appreciating the successes of this law and the amendments that we have been able to make, but also knowing that it is really short because of its lack of ambition, my group will support this bill. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-23-CD211223.u65	Thank you very much, Mrs. Martínez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Rego Candaimil has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-23-CD211223.u66	Thank you, Madam President. We begin by acknowledging that this text is making progress in the management of waste, and there have even been some incorporations in the parliamentary procedure, such as the ban on incineration of waste which may be recycled or reused. This, by the way, calls into question the line of action of the Xunta for many years, which, against all logic and in the face of all the criticisms made from environmentalist perspectives, was engaged in the incineration of waste at the Sogama plant. In any case, it seems to us insufficient, and that is why the BNG tabled forty-six amendments which we thought were substantially improving the original proposal. As a result, some issues have been incorporated through compromises, but we have to note that most of our proposals, including the most relevant ones, have remained outside the opinion that is being brought here today. That is why we wish to point out some issues of concern to us. To begin with, more ambitious targets should be set for waste prevention and reduction; also measures for prevention and management by large producers, companies, areas, business parks, buildings and public equipment. In the case of domestic and community composting, different realities should be taken into account and generic criteria should not be established. In the case of Galicia, for example, such a system could be established as a single or main one in much of the councils. We could also point out some issues relating to planned obsolescence, separate collection of bioresidues, agricultural waste, agrocompost and wet/dry multi-material collection; in the latter case, we hope that it will be adequately reflected in the packaging decree currently being processed. In any case, the BNG will abstain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-23-CD211223.u67	Thank you very much, Mr. Rego. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much. For the same group, Mrs Sabanes Nadal has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-23-CD211223.u68	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Today we are debating a law that, despite its urgency, arrives a decade late in our country. It is a step and must be used as a tool both to improve the treatment of waste disposal and to fight and tackle the climate emergency, but I warn you that it will require great determination and courage at all levels of the Administration to deploy and implement it upwards. The current waste system, despite the efforts of some municipalities and some administrations, has failed to meet the recycling targets that Europe is asking for, and much less to move from recycling society to the recycling society, with a clear commitment to the circular economy. To advance in this direction, from More Country Greens Equo we have introduced improvements in the law, such as guaranteeing the right to reparation or that the products carry information about the service life or planned obsolescence. Could we have made much more progress? Yes, we could have made much more progress. The government coalition began this debate by stating that, yes or no, there was an urgent need for a packaging return deposit system and, in the end, we were halfway there. That is why we have maintained our amendment 443, which means starting the momentum of this system in 2023. The new waste management models undoubtedly open up opportunities for small and medium-sized enterprises, the social economy or new professions. When some of you insist - and you will insist today - that changes in waste management negatively affect the economy, you are actually taking on board the discourse of the lobbies and large companies' boards of directors, which look not at the general interest or the interest of the municipalities, but at their own results. Ladies and gentlemen, with this model of buying, throwing, buying and throwing, we are consuming far more than our planet can afford. Since July 29, we are already living on loan, which is unsustainable, as well as very unfair for future generations. With this law we can move towards a system that moves from waste management to resource management consideration. However, we, with the nuances we have put forward in the amendments, are going to vote in favour of this law, which is urgent and necessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-23-CD211223.u69	Thank you very much, Mrs. Sabanes. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the same group, Mr Miquel i Valentí has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-23-CD211223.u70	Good morning again, ladies and gentlemen. I begin my speech on this agenda item by announcing that we are going to vote against this initiative, and I do so despite thanking Eva Patricia Well - I think she is not here today and that she has to follow this debate from her home - her willingness to reach agreements, which has allowed about fifteen PeCAT amendments to be incorporated into this text. Despite that, of these fifteen amendments which are important, but which are not in the bulk of what was important to us and what had to be amended in this text, he has already announced that we are going to vote against. [[The lady]] We are going to vote against it, first of all, because we believe it is an unambitious law. If anything we learned in the debate on the Climate Change Act was that setting a timetable with objectives was important, and I think that this law does not, and does not, because, among other things, the parties supporting the Government have decided to seek support in a party such as the People's Party - which until recently denied climate change - to adopt this initiative and to move this law forward. They have, and that is understandable, tightened by the calendar. On 3 July we had to transpose European directives that were not ready to be transposed, and the government had brought this law here only a month and a half before. That tight timetable is what has forced the Government to seek its support in parties that have required little in setting goals and results in this text. We are going to vote against it also because there are two issues that were fundamental to us and that, in the whole process and in the debate on this law, are not collected as we would like. The first has to do with the tax issue. This is going to be a repetitive debate by different groups, not only Catalans, but also Catalans, and it should be by all those Members who represent territories where there is already a tax such as this law absorbs. In short, what we are asking for, ladies and gentlemen, is for this tax to be waived, as has been done with other taxes - property transfers, successions - so that governments can make policy on this tax and decide what they are making and what they are not, what they are going up and what they are going down. This law, this final wording - let us hope it will be corrected at another time - does not pick it up like this. We believe that it is important that it be collected, which prevents us from voting in favour. Ladies and gentlemen, we are also going to vote against it because another fundamental issue, the SDDR, the deposit, return and return system, which was a courageous bet that should be incorporated into this text, is diluted in a government proposal that is still a flight forward, setting objectives and constraints that we all know will not be met at the moment. And that is worrying, because, ladies and gentlemen, the pressures that have caused them to put these conditions today are going to be the same ones that will prevent them from implementing the SDDR model when the time comes, which is going to be more necessary. It is for these reasons, ladies and gentlemen, that we cannot support this initiative. Let us hope that it will be improved in other parliamentary procedures and hope to bring our position closer to this case.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-23-CD211223.u71	Thank you very much, Mr. Miquel.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-23-CD211223.u72	I'm done, President. Thank you. I just wanted, since this is my last speech of the year, to congratulate everyone on Christmas and wish them a happy 2022. Thank you very much, President. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-23-CD211223.u73	Thank you very much, Mr. Miquel. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Eritja Ciuro has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-23-CD211223.u74	Thank you very much, President. Our group's will has been and continues to be to assist in the processing of a minimum law to ensure the achievement of the objectives that the European Union precisely demands in the management of waste. We are fully aware of all the work that remains to be done. According to the Rezero Foundation, 11% of what is bought in the Spanish State goes directly to waste. Moreover, 26% of waste is not recycled in the Spanish State, well below the 50% required by the European Union in 2020. There really is a demand and a need to implement real policies in that regard. The challenge before us, therefore, is immense, and we have already said that it would only be possible if it were accompanied by truly courageous and ambitious actions. For our group the premises to take into account were four. The first: The best residue is the one that is not generated. Prevention must be the basis of the waste hierarchy; we must bet on ecodesign and demand more environmentally efficient products that are recoverable and reusable and, as a last resort, that are recyclable. The second: Who pollutes, pays; therefore, enforce the European principle of extended producer responsibility. We want to make progress in this regard in measures of control, transparency and traceability. The third is to implement effective environmental taxation that is above all finalist. The fourth would be to respect the legislative powers of the Autonomous Communities which have competence in waste management. In fact, the Republican Group, as well as other Catalan groups, have spoken since the experience in Catalonia of seventeen years of waste treatment management. You yourselves have recognized in various circles the success of our model. We also appreciate the success of the Les Balears Waste Act, which shows us how a courageous and demanding proposal in waste management can be successful. There are, therefore, sufficient examples in territories and in autonomous communities of successful legislation or waste management. From the learning that experience gives us, most of the amendments that we are putting forward extend a law that we consider to be clearly inadequate in this respect, with very little concrete objectives and measures that are too generic for the objectives that are actually being demanded of us. For example, one of the amendments tabled is to ensure that the waste generated in the Balearic Islands, the Canary Islands, Ceuta and Melilla is properly financed, above all because of the additional cost of insular waste transport. There is another block of amendments that focuses on the obligations set out in the extended producer liability regime. We believe that it is necessary to share responsibility for the management of waste throughout the value chain. It makes sense, it's common sense. On the one hand, we propose the mandatory extension of the producer's liability, since the law does not currently make it mandatory and differentiates it from the future adoption of the Royal Decree; on the other hand, the autonomous communities competent to issue additional environmental protection rules must have the capacity to regulate new flows of the producer's extended liability or to extend the current ones. There are several amendments that we propose more ambitious in order to extend in some way that basic principle, that basic law, which we believe is insufficient and should therefore be extended. That is why, precisely because we believe that very little progress has been made on all these issues, we doubt that this law can be truly effective in the future, and we therefore believe that it will need to be dealt with again. But if the amendments we have maintained so far go in parallel with the Government's approaches, with a more or less broad degree of ambition, there is a part of the text that refers to the new tax figures that clash frontally with the model that we have been working on in Catalonia. I am referring specifically to the creation of the new waste tax, which involves the disappearance of the tax figure of the waste canon, which has been applied in Catalonia for more than seventeen years. Nothing against the new plastic tax, which we believe is appropriate and correct; no, we are talking specifically about the waste tax, which directly affects the fee. From the purely environmental tax sphere, with this new waste tax, with this law, in Catalonia we lose, because, unlike now, we lose the capacity to regulate, to modulate the tax itself and, therefore, the ability to manage properly. We do not in any way oppose the creation of the Spanish State tax, because of the obvious needs that have been mentioned here, but we demand that this tax not apply to the communities that already have a tax tool in this respect, because this would mean for us to go back on a path that we have already gone through. The strategy of homogenization and centralization of certain tax figures to deal with the passiveness of some autonomous communities to deal with environmental problems, as we now find in the Waste Act, is not the solution that we think is most appropriate. In order to ensure the involvement of all the territories in the fulfilment of the objectives of the European Union, we propose other measures, such as that the amounts paid by the Spanish State in respect of fines attributable to non-compliance by action or omission by an autonomous community or local corporation are passed on to them; that it be those autonomous communities that do not meet those who have to bear the debt that comes to us. This is one of the clear amendments that we have tabled and to which no one has responded. For us, the creation of this new tax, which violates our competitive and fiscal framework, is a precedent, I repeat, a precedent for the creation of new taxes that end up eliminating other autonomous tax figures. Hence the gravity and, therefore, our positioning. It is a dangerous precedent, very dangerous for the competitive framework of the autonomous communities. Today there are already numerous personalities, organizations and institutions - which represent the transversality of civil society in Catalonia and which demonstrate the high consensus that the creation of this canon at the time - that have joined the manifesto in defense of the residue canon, including personalities such as the Councillor of Economics or personalities with an important political representativeness in Catalan society, but also environmental organizations such as the Ciutadana Platform Residu Zero, ECA, Fundació Rezero or Ecologists in Action. Environmental organizations see very clearly that the cannon is a red line and therefore dangerous. Our group will therefore vote against the text of the opinion. In any case, we hope that in the process of the Senate the subsidizing federalist soul and defender of the state of autonomy will prevail. We would not like them to do the work in the end on the decentralizing approaches of the far right. They do not hide from it, but in any case the present Government should not fall into such temptations. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-23-CD211223.u75	Thank you very much, Mr. Eritja. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Gestoso de Miguel has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-23-CD211223.u76	Thank you very much. I would like to begin by thanking Conchi, Valentina and all the staff of the House for all their efforts to ensure that we can safely intervene in all the Members of all the political groups in this House in the special circumstances we are in. So, thank you very much. [[Applauds]] We are here to discuss the Waste and Contaminated Soil Bill, although we might have to call it a Waste Business Bill. Here the usual ones, the friends and, perhaps, the relatives of someone from the blue bench and the chiringuitos created ad hoc for the occasion benefit; the big ones are the companies, the self-employed and the consumers. The waste management model they are proposing will bring state-run driving, more bureaucratic obstacles and more taxes, harming market and entrepreneurship freedom, and will ultimately impact on the pocket of the Spaniards, and that this government said it would leave no one behind. The waste hierarchy provided for in Law 22/2011, which transposes the European framework directive in this order, is abandoned: prevention, screening, reuse, recycling, recovery and disposal at landfill. They forget to safeguard the environment, the health of people and the efficient treatment of waste no less. They even abandon their progressive eco-requirements, such as the common position for all European States or the Sustainable Development Goals that they are unable to meet. We welcome these last failures in the hope that they will stop trying and save us billions in the pockets of all Spaniards. Look, the best residue is the one that is not generated and then, once generated and its recycling is not possible, it is eliminated. Although Title II of this Act is devoted to prevention, it is little more than a declaration of principles, since there are no serious mechanisms of control and enforcement; that is, it establishes such a harsh sanctioning regime of the left's taste in these matters. There's something that smells like corruption, it looks like corruption, and I don't know if it's corruption. The company that operates the business of the parents of the president of the government since arriving at the palace of Moncloa, Plastic Industries Playboy, received more than 700,000 euros in public aid in just fifteen months It would be necessary to explain how they benefit from this law. [[applause]] Say here if you're going to clear up this scandal at once. Also say that the plastic tax doesn't add up to more money for Sanchez's family and if that's legal, it's decent or it's not. It seems that the 700,000 euros are injected by the Institute of Official Credit, under the Ministry of Economy. It is all very cunning, in the ERE style, but, of course, you have to be a minister and responsible for this new nonsense to the same one that allowed the expoliation of the 600 million to the Andalusians. [[Applauds]] Today we ask you to give these explanations about the possible enrichment of the Sánchezes, to explain it in this House before voting this misconception and to all the Spaniards to whom they owe it. Remove your dirty hands from the pockets of the workers, but also of the companies; that it is the companies that establish the ways of interaction with their final customers for return to origin, recycling or recovery; that the products establish, on the label of each product, what to do with the residue. Stop criminalizing the Spaniards. Ideological sectarianism prevents them and has prevented them from accepting any amendment from our group, VOX, as has been reflected in the whole process of the project, whether or not we were right, whether or not the things we presented were reasonable. In the process of this project we have seen more than ever what we call the progressive consensus in all its action. Under a super-technical jargon, we are caught in an artificial waste market, supported by subsidies and controlled by power lobbies, apparently closer to all of you than we might have thought. This bill, moreover, abounds in inequality among the Spanish. The autonomous communities will have discretion in the authorizations, so the same material will have a different consideration and treatment depending on one region of Spain or another. Energy recovery by incineration is also not envisaged, except by applying insurmountable tax burdens. The Incineration converts each kilo of residue into 14 grams of ash; it is fast and clean, within the values of the European Union, and allows to transform energy into electricity, steam or heat, but they do not like it because it is not part of this artificial and sustained business of its chiringuitos. In Germany and Denmark incineration is an ordinary technology; these countries are so reflected. Efficiency brings gross yields from 18% to 25% and is clean and cost-effective. Year after year, decade after decade, landfills in Spain stretch out into hotbeds of stench and pests and they seem to like that more. The pompous denomination, that pompous word of circular economy, so like you to invent grandiloquent terms, does not appear defined at any point in the law, because in this law the only thing that is circular is the money for subsidies to friends and family. All this now, at a time when thousands of companies have had to close, with the highest youth unemployment rate in Europe, the light beating records every day, inflation at 1990 levels, a public debt triggered, the prohibitive shopping basket and a criminalized and dying primary sector. This is no time for new penalties and taxes. You lie and, perhaps, you also take something unclear from this. They are not in the green trench, they are outside contributing to the ruin of families, the stench of plagues and the enrichment of a few. Thank you very much and Merry Christmas. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-23-CD211223.u77	Thank you very much, Mr. Gestoso. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Sánchez Pérez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-23-CD211223.u78	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, once again we are late with you, we are late and we are wrong. The law we are debating today is a missed opportunity for Spain and the Spanish. This law is the only thing that makes it - and wrong - to transpose European directives. It's a law that could serve our country ten years ago, not today. It is a law that only has to circulate the title of the law and the definition of circular economy, by the way, thanks to two amendments of the People's Party. Beyond the title and definition this law is anything but circular. By the way, you will already explain to the left in this House what problem they have with reducing VAT to products that are donated to social organizations. This is a law that penalizes industry and companies in our country. It's a law that has a clear desire to collect money. This Government is the Government that has generated the greatest fiscal pressure in our country's recent history at a time when our country's families and businesses precisely need less fiscal pressure. They intend to introduce new taxes on a permanent basis, when the Bank of Spain and the European Commission itself are reluctant to increase fiscal pressure at a time of economic recovery. By the way, it has been an amendment by the People's Party that has made it possible for us to give the Spanish industry a moratorium on the plastic tax, after fighting with resources the government's veto on economic amendments. [[Applauds]] We did it because, if the tax had been levied this year, it would have been paid by families through inflation. I don't know if this sounds like inflation to the left: the rise of light, of commodities, the rise of gas prices, of fuels and better not to continue. It is a law that, as we have already denounced in recent weeks, does not contemplate the social or economic impact on Spanish society and industry, as also denounced by the Council of State. It is a law that will have a negative impact on more than a million companies in our country and on their competitiveness. In that regard, I would like to inform you that we are going to require an assessment of the achievement of the objectives, and time will tell you whether it has served the content of this law for something or is already adding to the long list of environmental breaches in our country. It is a law that has not been agreed either with autonomous communities, with industry or with municipalities, a law that, far from harmonising environmental taxation in the autonomous communities, will drive a race between them and promote legal uncertainty, will even encourage the illegal transfer of waste, a genuine legislative balkanization. Moreover, it is a law that breaks down harmonization with the rest of Europe, and that will leave companies located in our country at a competitive disadvantage compared to companies located in other countries of the European Union. You, the left, have not yet understood that it is essential, that it is possible and that we also need to make the fight against climate change compatible and to achieve our climate objectives and commitments with the economy, that the process of transition to more sustainable and respectful economies must and can be an opportunity for all, that the circular economy is a source of opportunity, as the Chamber of Commerce has shown, and that it can create more than 160,000 jobs in our country, quality employment. We have tried to improve this law over the past few weeks. We have had days of intense work with Eva, with Esther, whom we thank for their availability and willingness to reach meeting points. But this law is missing a lot, Spain deserves more, the Spanish economy deserves more, our environment deserves more. And I tell you that the People's Party, as soon as it reaches the Government of Spain, will do, among other things, five things. Firstly, as long as there is no economic recovery in our country and a harmonised framework for plastic tax across Europe, as long as it governs the People's Party this tax will not be put into effect in our country. Secondly, we will attract to Congress a true circular economy law that involves the whole of society - not like this law - all economic sectors, all autonomous communities and all public administrations, also the municipalities; an ambitious law, an ecological law, but also an economic law. Thirdly, we will implement sectoral plans with maximum transparency; we will know what every euro is invested in the circular economy in our country, not as it happens right now that we do not know where the EUR 500 million that Europe has given to Spain in this year in 2021 for the circular economy has gone. Fourthly, we will put in place indicators to measure the economic and social impacts of the circular economy; I remind you to the left, and the Socialist Party in particular, that in the Commission you voted against a proposal by the People's Party to set up an observatory on the circular economy in our country. Fifth, we will incorporate the principles of the circular economy into all our country's economic and climate change policies, incorporating the circular economy into the plans of the Pnieb to achieve the decarbonization of our economy. Moreover, something very important, we will listen to the committee of experts, committee of experts that has appointed the Government of Spain and who does not pay any attention to it. A committee of experts has to put on the table a green tax plan for our country, and do not patch up as this law does with the tax it wants to put on the table. We will stop taxing the creation of wealth, that of what the left is a specialist in Spain and in the world in general. We have to start thinking that what has to be taxed and penalised is those who destroy ecological capital. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a necessary law that comes late, that goes wrong and that is insufficient. Our group will vote for abstention, but they do not see it as a vote of confidence either to its group or to the Government of Spain or to the President or to the Vice-President; we will do so out of responsibility, because Spain needs it, because European funds have to come, because we are loyal and because we are responsible, for nothing else. We are a governing party that will govern Spain again and that arranges many things that you have done wrong, among them is law. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-23-CD211223.u79	Thank you, Mr. Sanchez. Mr López de Uralde Garmendia has the floor in position-setting by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-23-CD211223.u80	Thank you, President. Today we are discussing the adoption in plenary of a very complex law to which more than seven hundred amendments have been submitted, almost seven hundred and fifty amendments, which demonstrates the interest of society, parliamentary groups and, in general, social actors in the issues of the ecological crisis and the environmental impact of our activities. I would like to begin by thanking the social organisations, environmental organisations and environmental organisations that have contributed so much to the process of this law. I would also like to thank the rapporteurs in the Commission and the members of our Commission - in particular the spokespersons - for their work, and I would like to make special mention of two Members of the Socialist Party, Esther Padilla and Eva Bueno Campanario, who have worked tirelessly to negotiate amendments. [[applause]] I would also like to thank, in a law of this kind and with this difficulty of amendments and articles, the work of the technical services of the Commission, as well as of the lawyer and other lawyers who have participated in this process, because often with two general sentences all this work is disqualified - it is said consensus progress, it is said I do not know what -. As Goebbels said, a lie a thousand times repeated can turn into truth. I think we need to rescue and value the work that is being done in this House, because if we don't, no one is going to do it. [[Applauds]] And I believe that in this law there has been extraordinary work; there has been extraordinary work. You may or may not agree with the final result. Undoubtedly, it is not a perfect law, but I also want to say that it is a law that, first of all, transposes the European directives: the 2018 waste directive and the single-use plastic directive. Some, therefore, will also have to clarify whether they want us to be in Europe or want us to be outside Europe, because this is not a chiringuite, this is the transposition of two European directives, and we need to make this very clear. That's it! It's all right with manipulations and lies, please! We then continue and go to the content of the law. Firstly, the origin of this law is that waste is actually generating a very serious problem in our society. They are creating problems that could not be solved by the 1994 directive. Since this directive aims to reduce the amount and environmental impacts of the waste we generate, it is true that landfills continue to be saturated and continue to cause serious problems. By the way, it should be mentioned that in a recent European research, the landfill in Valdemingómez was one of the most important in methane emissions, a gas that precisely COP 26 - the Climate Summit held in Glasgow - agreed that it was necessary to reduce. For the main issue focus in this country we have it nearby, in the landfill of Valdemingómez, whose management, by the way, is in the hands of the People's Party. Fires in recycling plants are unfortunately another constant, a constant that worries us very much, exports of waste to third countries or what we have talked about so many times, which are the impacts of plastic waste on the environment and especially on the marine environment. We know from a good source - and there are numerous studies that show this - how the plastic waste we produce is seriously damaging marine life. That is why we agree that the current model is not solving the problems. Current waste management systems are not being sufficient to address the problem of waste. Hence the importance of this new law and hence the introduction of new strategies and improvements that go to the structural deepening of the current waste policy. I will highlight just a few, because it really is a very prolific law, with more than a hundred articles; therefore, it is difficult to expose it all in such a short space of time. For the first time the word prevention is put into action by banning some plastics of one use absolutely useless. This - I insist on this - is a consequence of the European Plastics Directive and therefore does not respond to any chiringuite or interest. That's it! On the other hand, it is obliged to separate the collection of organic matter. This is a claim for many years by social organizations working on waste issues, because organic matter finally in the garbage - especially in landfills - is the source of many problems, among others, of the emissions of that methane that I was talking about earlier. Separate collection at source is therefore one of the essential strategies to deal with the situation. On the other hand, the deposit, return and return system is put in place. Yes, it is being implemented because the reason behind this law is that the objectives set out in the directive have not been met and, therefore, although the deposit system is conditional on the achievement of certain objectives, those objectives are not being met. It is high time, because we are facing the entry into force of this system, which will be a substantial improvement in the waste collection model, a system - that of storage, return and return - which is being applied in many countries of our environment with very high recovery rates, rates which, for example, in the case of Germany are above 95%. I therefore believe that it is reason to welcome the fact that this waste management system will finally be put in place in our country, and we hope that it will be done as soon as possible, because it is a complaint from the public. We've all lived in our childhood carrying those helmets, those bottles back to the storekeeper and giving us back some pessetilles. For that is what the system of deposit, return and return does now in a technologically more developed way. In short, it is dealing with asbestos waste, something that society has been demanding for a long time, and it is promoting the reuse of waste and introducing, as I say, a great deal of new developments in waste management. Of course, we're taking a step forward. I agree that it is not a perfect law and that it can be improved, but we need it to be implemented and developed in order to really begin to deal with a growing problem that our society has to use and throw away, which is the problem of the environmental and health impacts that generate so much waste. Thank you very much and I wish you a happy holiday. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-23-CD211223.u81	Thank you very much, Mr López de Uralde. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Padilla Ruiz has the floor for the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-23-CD211223.u82	Thank you, President. I will begin by clarifying some of the messages that have been launched from this rostrum, and to focus the debate on rigour, I want to bring the strength of the facts. Mr Sánchez, in less than two years the Government of Spain has approved the Circular Spain Strategy 2030, the Action Plan 2021-2023 and five royal decrees in this area, and through the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan has incorporated a specific allocation for investments in circular economy of 850 million euros. In fact, it has already begun to implement with a transfer to the autonomous communities of 400 million euros, and a call for grants of more than 150 million euros is planned next year to help companies in the transit of the circular economy. Now we can talk about what really involves the project of contaminated waste and soil for a circular economy, which is not a satellite in the universe, but the cornerstone of an ambitious process of revision of waste regulations, aimed at making possible a fair transition to a new model that promotes the protection of the environment and the transformation of the productive system, ensuring sustainable economic growth, quality jobs, responsible consumption of resources and better well-being, because we must effectively comply with the Waste Framework Directive and with the Single-Use Plastics Reduction Directive, with the waste management objectives recommended by the European Commission, and with the commitment made in the Recovery Plan, so that it is inescapable to implement to access the Next Generation funds. I hope that at this point we will all agree with that need and with how good they are for our country. Moreover, there is a commitment - if not greater, at least as important as the previous ones - of this progressive government to respond to one of the greatest challenges for the environment, for sustainability and for human health: the generation and management of waste, clearly betting on the prevention and reduction of these and their adverse impacts. If we want to move forward, we must take steps with determination and responsibility, and this bill does so. I would like to highlight some measures that I consider very important, such as the establishment of new concrete and quantifiable objectives, new separate collections, deposit, return and return systems, including with great wisdom, as has already been said. In addition, environmental taxation, obligations under European directives, is introduced, and here it is in the tax on non-reusable plastic packaging, which of course addresses one of the major challenges, namely pollution from plastic waste, as well as the tax on landfilling and incineration, demanded by the OECD and the European Commission. However, we have facilitated the adjustment of these new tax figures by fixing their entry into force in 2023. Yes, of course, with amendments from all groups, as we have done, because we wanted to agree and work, but with the will of the Socialist Group, the United We can and the Ministry to agree and take measures like this from the entry into force in 2023. [[Applauds]] In spite of all this, I would like to make it clear that, far from the assertions that it often makes, the taxes collected in this bill are not collection, but quite the contrary. For the government, the less it collects, the better. Why? Because that means that those companies or entities concerned are meeting their goal of helping to reduce our waste and improve its management. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, willingness to cooperate - take note of some -. At this point, I would like to thank these companies, this economic sector of the country and the different administrations for their commitment to meet this challenge. I sincerely believe that the law is enriched by the interesting and viable contributions of virtually all groups; for those who come up to this rostrum to insult and deny reality, it is really impossible. Ladies and gentlemen of Esquerra, PeCAT and Junts, I am very sorry for your position, we have tried to exhaust it and we regret that, even with all the work you have done with numerous amendments, it has not been possible to reach an agreement. But we invite you to continue working because we believe that it is still in the Senate. This group is reaching out to them, because the will of the Socialist Group, the United Podemos and the Government has been very clear from the minute one: working to make it better law and also doing it with everyone, listening and agreeing. And at this point I want to thank the different groups for their work and what, agreement or discrepancy, we have always done from respect. In this regard, I would especially like to thank the rapporteurs who have been working since the first minute and who have very much believed in this law, Idoia, Inés, Guitarte, Óskar, Carmen Martínez, Caesar and José Ángel. Well, yeah, we said we had to talk, we tried, and the law is good and they know it. We have updated the 2011 law, which the Socialists have also done, and you say you are going to do it and you are going to do it, but you never do it, and you are not going to do it because this government is going to continue for many years. [[Applauds]] And when I say that we have worked, I mean a very important team of people, not in numbers, but in quality, of course. I am referring to the lawyer, who we have worked very closely, to the comrades of the Socialist Group, to the workers - thanks immense to all of them - and also to the team of the ministry for their work from the beginning - Juancho, it is a pleasure to make this journey together. And of course I thank my colleagues: Dani Viondi - what a premiere we have had - and Eva Patricia Well, who has indeed been from the beginning, will be following us now securely telematically, and will follow us until the end of the processing of this law. I conclude by telling them that this law is to be fulfilled and is to be fulfilled; it is ambitious, realistic, balanced and courageous; this is how it progresses. He ended up telling them to take care of themselves, wishing them happy holidays and my best wishes for the year 2022. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-23-CD211223.u83	Thank you very much, Mrs. Padilla. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-23-CD211223.u84	We move on to the last item on the agenda, on the proposal for the House's motion for a resolution on the deliberation and final vote on the general telecommunications bill. This item shall be voted on without debate.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-23-CD211223.u85	Ladies and gentlemen, having completed the deadline for the issue of the vote by the telematics procedure on non-legislative proposals and motions, the amendments to the direct and read-only procedure, the opinions of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the amendments to the two Commission opinions on legislative initiatives and the request for avocado submitted in connection with the draft general telecommunications law, I should like to state the outcome of the votes. No legislative proposal by the Socialist Parliamentary Group on speeches of intolerance and discrimination against LGBTI people in Poland and Hungary. It has been voted on in its terms. Votes cast, 346; in favour, 204; against, 54; abstentions, 88. Accordingly, the non-legislative proposal was approved. - OF THE VOX PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, TO STRENGTHENING IBEROSPHERE THROUGH THE CONSIGURATION AND ARTICULATION OF A MULTINATIONAL AREA OF COUNTRIES OF SPANISH LANGUAGES AND PORTUGUESE OF ALL CONTINUES. [[File number 162/000792]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-23-CD211223.u86	No law proposal of the VOX Parliamentary Group, aimed at strengthening the Iberosphere through the configuration and articulation of a multinational space of Spanish and Portuguese-speaking countries of all continents. It has been voted on in its terms. Votes cast, 346; in favour, 55; against, 202; abstentions, 89. Accordingly, the non-legislative proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-23-CD211223.u87	Motion following urgent inquiry by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, for the Government to explain the arbitrariness in the allocation of some items of the Recovery and Resilience Mechanism, as well as the delay in the actual execution of these European funds. It has been voted on in its terms. Votes cast, 345; in favour, 153; against, 170; abstentions, 22. The motion was therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-23-CD211223.u88	The result of the joint vote on the amendments to the full refund of the bill amending Law 12/2002 of 23 May approving the Economic Concert with the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country, submitted by the parliamentary groups VOX and Citizens. Votes cast, 346; in favour, 63; against, 282; abstentions, 1. The amendments are therefore rejected in their entirety.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-23-CD211223.u89	The result of the joint vote on the opinions of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on international conventions. Agenda items 28 to 30. Votes cast, 343; in favour, 320; abstentions, 23. The opinions were therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-23-CD211223.u90	Amendments to the opinion of the proposal for an organic law to improve the protection of orphans who are victims of gender-based violence. All the amendments were rejected. - Draft Waste and Lands Contamined Law for a Circular Economy [[PRESENT NAMED DRAFT RESIDUE LAW AND CONTAMINATED SOLUTIONS]] [[File number 121/000056]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-23-CD211223.u91	Amendments to the opinion of the draft Law on Contaminated Waste and Soils for a Circular Economy [[formerly known as the Contaminated Waste and Soils Bill]] Transactional amendments 1 to 4 and technical corrections 1 to 4 were adopted. The result of all the votes for these amendments will be published on the House's website, in accordance with the usual procedure, and will be appended to the minutes of this sitting.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-23-CD211223.u92	Request by the plenary of the House for the deliberation and final vote of the draft general telecommunications law, submitted by the Republican Parliamentary Group. Votes cast, 346; in favour, 343; abstentions, 3. Consequently, the draft law is being submitted to the plenary.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-23-CD211223.u93	Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to inform you that, from now until the 13th and 15th minutes of today, the overall vote on the draft law amending Law 12/2002 of 23 May approving the Economic Concert with the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country can be taken by telematic means; the opinion and the vote as a whole on the proposal for an organic law to improve the protection of orphans who are victims of gender-based violence; and the vote on the opinion on the draft law on contaminated waste and soil for a circular economy. [[formerly known as the Contaminated Waste and Soils Bill]] The meeting was suspended until 3.30 p.m. Thank you very much. The sitting was suspended at 12.30 p.m. The meeting resumed at 1.30 p.m.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-23-CD211223.u94	Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is resumed. Having completed the deadline for the issue of the vote by telematics procedure, I shall now state the outcome of the votes. The result of the vote on the entire text of the bill amending Act No. 12/2002 of 23 May 2002 approving the Economic Concert with the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country for the single reading procedure. Votes cast, 341; in favour, 280; against, 57; abstentions, 4. Accordingly, the bill amending Act No. 12/2022 of 23 May approving the Economic Concert with the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country, which will be referred to the Senate, was adopted.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-23-CD211223.u95	Opinion on the proposal for an organic law to improve the protection of orphans who are victims of gender-based violence. Votes cast, 341; in favour, 293; abstentions, 48. The opinion was therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-23-CD211223.u96	Result of the overall vote on the organic initiative. Votes cast, 341; in favour, 292; abstentions, 49. Accordingly, the proposal for an organic law to improve the protection of orphans who are victims of gender-based violence is approved. [[Applauds]] - Draft Waste and Lands Contamined Law for a Circular Economy [[PRESENT NAMED DRAFT RESIDUE LAW AND CONTAMINATED SOLUTIONS]] [[File number 121/000056]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-23-CD211223.u97	Opinion of the Waste and Contaminated Soils Bill for a Circular Economy, formerly known as the Waste and Contaminated Soils Bill. Votes cast, 340; in favour, 182; against, 70; abstentions, 88. The opinion was therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-23-CD211223.u98	Ladies and gentlemen, today we close the last of the plenary sessions provided for in the calendar of meetings of 2021. I wish you very happy holidays and hope that we will all enjoy with the prudence imposed by the pandemic of these days of family reunion and also of remembrance to those who are no longer with us. I think I speak on behalf of all the Members of this House and all the Members of this House by conveying our congratulations and best wishes to all the workers of Congress who make our task possible every day. Allow me also to wish you all the opportunity to gather good intentions, understanding, respect, coexistence and willingness to agree for the next session and to make those wishes a reality by 2022. Merry Christmas. The meeting rose. [[Applauds]] It was one and thirty-five minutes in the afternoon.
