ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-30-CD210930.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. The meeting was resumed. We continue with the item on the agenda for the debate on the whole of the draft reform of article 49 of the Spanish Constitution. For the presentation of the bill, I have the floor, on behalf of the Government, the Minister of the Presidency, Relations with the Courts and Democratic Memory.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-30-CD210930.u2	Good morning, Madam President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I rise to the rostrum for consideration of the preliminary draft reform of article 49 of the Constitution on the protection and promotion of the rights of persons with disabilities. This draft regulation was adopted by the Council of Ministers on 11 May and represents a clear step forward in shaping our social and democratic rule of law. The reform has two objectives. The first is to enshrine the right to dignity and free development of persons with disabilities. The second objective is to consolidate the obligation of the public authorities to promote the rights of persons with disabilities in an integral way and to promote their full life. We are talking, ladies and gentlemen, about 3.8 million people with disabilities in our country; according to data from representative organizations, one in five households in Spain lives with one person with disabilities. They are people who not only need specific care and care, but also have other circumstances that make us especially sensitive: they have greater barriers to finding a job; they suffer a significant wage gap; they continue to have difficulties in accessing public services and social participation; and in the case of women, ladies and gentlemen, they also suffer higher rates of sexual violence and gender-based violence. Nor can we forget the impact that the pandemic has had on the daily lives of this group and the families and professionals who care for and accompany them. The reform that we are presenting to you today is not the result of the will of the Government, it is the fulfilment of a duty that we have as a society, that we all have. This proposal stems from dialogue with civil society, and I would therefore like to take advantage of my intervention in this rostrum to thank persons with disabilities, their families and their representative organizations. [[Applauds]] Thank you for opening our eyes, thank you for all the work you do day by day, thank you for doing so in a generous and exemplary way and thank you for the effort of all these years so that today our country will start a path to becoming a more dignified, more supportive and more egalitarian country. Your voice, the voice of people with disabilities, that of their families and that of their associations, strengthens our democracy and is an example for all of us. This proposal for the reform of the Constitution has direct recipients who are persons with disabilities, but it also has a much broader beneficiary, which is the whole of Spanish society. Every time we extend the borders of freedom and citizenship to one group, we renew the promise that these borders will continue to be extended every day for all and for all. Every time we reaffirm the dignity of anyone, discrimination and injustice lose a battle. In short, every time one person gains a right, democracy becomes greater for all others. [[Applauds]] The inclusion of article 49 in our Constitution was at the time a great step forward: it was constitutionally recognized that the defence of persons with disabilities is not a private or family issue, but is a public issue that concerns and calls on the public authorities. However, the passage of time has made article 49 of our Constitution age, and the reality is that today it is not in line with the evolution of the concept and approach of disability. Today we want to place the emphasis on the rights and duties of persons with disabilities and to abandon the medical conception, the rehabilitative conception that has the current article 49. We must incorporate - today we start the way - the social perspective that defines disability as a set of conditions, many of which originate or worsen in the social environment itself. This reform means taking a step further in the implementation of what we have committed internationally. In 2008, Spain ratified the International Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, adopted by the United Nations in 2006. The path began in 2011 with the adoption of the Law on Regulatory Adaptation, continued in 2013 with the Consolidated Text of the General Law on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and their Social Inclusion and, recently, we have adopted two other legislative reforms along the same lines: we have amended the Loreg, to guarantee the right to vote of persons with disabilities, and we have just adopted a law that replaces the incapacitation and guardianship of these persons with a system of support and strengthening of personal and civil autonomy. With all these measures, we have improved the lives of persons with disabilities and have fulfilled the constitutional mandate to promote and remove from public administrations obstacles preventing their full participation in political, social, economic and cultural life. If we have made this mandate reflected in the laws, we have to be more convinced today that we must also incorporate it into the text of the Constitution itself. Ladies and gentlemen, this amendment to Article 49 is an update of our Magna Charter and putting it at the level of the international convention. The aim is to harmonize in order to ensure more and better the full and effective exercise of the citizenship rights of persons with disabilities. In addition, the text we are presenting today is preceded by a work that you all did in 2018, which this House did. Within the Commission for Comprehensive Disability Policies, all groups agreed on the need to amend article 49 of the Constitution, an amendment which the Council of Ministers approved in December of the same year. However, the 2019 election calls prevented its processing. The reform of article 49 of the Constitution - I would like to stress this - has always had the support and participation of the Spanish Committee of Representatives of Persons with Disabilities, the Cermi, which has described as a historic day the adoption of this reform of article 49 of the Constitution in the Council of Ministers of 11 May 2021. That day, Cermi decided to give its unconditional support to the reform of article 49 and, in some way, supported the momentum that the Government made that day without turning back. Today we are starting the parliamentary process to move this reform forward. I hope, ladies and gentlemen, that, with your contributions and with a reasonable debate, the text will be able to have the strengthened majority sufficient to amend the Constitution. Furthermore, let me tell you that I do not believe that this reform will not be approved by a very large, almost unanimous majority in this House. [[Applauds]] I do not think of a single reason for voting against the recognition by the State of the respect and dignity that all persons with disabilities deserve. It's our obligation. It's your duty, ladies and gentlemen. In accordance with the agreement of the Council of Ministers of May 2021 and in accordance with the Constitution itself, the preliminary draft was forwarded in time and form to the parliamentary groups, accompanied by an explanatory memorandum and the opinion of the Council of State. Their comments were considered to reinforce and ensure the quality of the text. Next, I give a very brief account of the content of the reform that we are bringing to this House today. First, terminology is changed and updated. Ladies and gentlemen, the current text speaks of diminished. The public authorities, according to article 49 of the Constitution, will carry out a policy of foresight, treatment, rehabilitation and integration of the physical, sensory and psychic impairments. I do not think anyone in this House can feel comfortable using the term diminished in a conversation. We propose to replace it with the expression persons with disabilities, an expression consistent with the recommended guidelines for correct, respectful and inclusive language. Disability is one more feature; it is not the only thing to recognize a woman, a man, a child or a girl. The important thing is to put the word person first and use that term. People are not disabled, but they have a disability, which, of course, cannot define them. [[Applauds]] Persons with disabilities is the only valid and consensual expression covered by the United Nations Convention. It is the expression that defends the social movement at the international level and it is the expression that has already been applied in the current legislative framework. For all these reasons, I understand that this change in terminology should be indisputable in this House. Secondly, the structure and content of the article is being reformed. We propose a much broader and more comprehensive wording, a wording articulated in four sections that reflect the multiple approaches from which the protection of persons with disabilities is addressed. As I have just pointed out, paragraph 1 of the new text recognises that persons with disabilities have rights and duties under conditions of freedom and effective equality, without discrimination. Paragraph 2 of the reform that we are proposing has a great deal of substance for the present and for the future of the people to whom it is addressed: firstly, it sets out the objectives which must guide the positive action of the public authorities, such as their full autonomy and social inclusion; secondly, it includes the participation of representative organisations in the adoption of public policies affecting them; and thirdly, it expressly mentions the specific needs of women and girls with disabilities, who will be particularly addressed in view of their special vulnerability. [[Applauds]] Finally, paragraphs 3 and 4 of the reform we are proposing regulate the special protection for the full exercise of their rights and duties, including the protection provided for by the international treaties ratified by Spain. At this point, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to focus on two ideas relating to the constitutional reform that I outlined in my appearance before this House on 9 September. The first is that the Constitution can and must be amended to adapt it to the times and improve its text, and it must be done when there is a broad political and social consensus, which I hope we will achieve with this much-disputed reform, in the view of the Government. The second is that these changes must be carried out with rigour and responsibility, in keeping with the only objective we have, which is to adapt and improve the text and strengthen the links of our Constitution with the social reality of our country today. The constitutions cannot be at the dawn of ideological or party changes, but they cannot be immobile either. There is no better way to defend the constitutional principles than to bring the Constitution into line with the changes that are taking place in our country, and this is a clear, very clear example. Today we are faced with a reform which, in the view of the Government, must be indisputable in this House. We propose a change that strengthens the Constitution and that at the same time strengthen our values and our commitment as a society. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, I ask you for a consensus. Consensus must be unquestionable when we talk about expanding rights and freedoms, when we talk about reforms aimed at expanding the concept of citizenship and at progressively eliminating discrimination that prevents our fellow citizens from living a full life. It is our duty as a parliamentary chamber to remove these obstacles and to facilitate a dignified and full life for persons with disabilities. Respect for the dignity and rights of persons with disabilities is a basic consensus that I am sure we all participate in. I am also sure that all the amendments that are going to be tabled in this House seek to improve the text. We are open, I tell you, and we express our readiness to refine the text with the proposals that arise from the consensus of the debate of the parliamentary forces. And once we get to the end, when the time comes to vote, I ask you not to think about what you would have wanted it to be, I ask you to think about whether the new text is better for people with disabilities, whether it is more useful for them. If you can contribute to that goal, I ask you to vote in favour of this reform. It is a reform formally presented by the Government but has as its origin and destination persons with disabilities, families and organizations that support them every day. I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, do not turn your back on them - do not turn your back on them, I insist. I'm done, ladies and gentlemen. I invite you to distinguish the relevant from the accessory. The daily political climate makes the differences between us often seem insurmountable and that making an appeal to consensus seems naive, but those differences do not justify not approving this constitutional reform. I am sure that all of us in this House, all of us, without exception, have ever thought about the immense honor it brings us to represent or serve our fellow citizens and that we will have expressed on more than one occasion how important the great agreements are to improve the lives of the Spanish and Spanish people. I believe that today we have an opportunity to honour that commitment, to improve and to give greater dignity to persons with disabilities. Today we have the opportunity, ladies and gentlemen, to strengthen the commitment to Susana Rodríguez, the Paralympic triathlon champion in Tokyo 2020, who, in addition, as a rehab doctor, has treated patients with COVID-19 during the pandemic. An example of effort, dedication and dedication to others. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, we must approve this reform for Susana and also for all those people who like her struggle every day for their full personal, professional and social realization. Ladies and gentlemen, for all these reasons, I hope and hope that the reform of Article 49 will achieve the maximum possible support, the reinforced majority, and that we amend Article 49 of the Constitution to improve the lives of persons with disabilities. I finish now, and I want to do so by recalling the words he uttered, full of emotion, Jesús Vidal when he received the Goya Award for his performance in the film Champions: inclusion, visibility and diversity. And now, I add: a constitutional framework that makes this possible. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-30-CD210930.u3	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Two amendments to this bill have been tabled to the full refund, one from the VOX Parliamentary Group and one from the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress. In defence of the amendments tabled, Mrs Olona Choclán has the floor by the VOX Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-30-CD210930.u4	With all due respect, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, very good morning. Minister Bolaños, good morning. I would like to begin by stressing that I take as a real privilege the responsibility that my parliamentary group has entrusted me to take the floor to defend the position of the VOX Parliamentary Group in this whole debate, because I hope that we all agree as politicians, and in my case additionally as toggled politics, that debates as far-reaching as the reform of our Magna Charter, of our Spanish Constitution, are taking place few in this House. [[Applauds]] ............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... With the seriousness that requires such a far-reaching debate, allow me to begin before addressing the substance of the matter with two previous considerations, and listen to me very carefully because then I do not want any misconceptions or accusations of attempted coup d'état. Neither the current Government of Spain, represented today by Mr Bolaños, nor this House has the moral legitimacy necessary to address a debate on constitutional reform. We have, of course, ladies and gentlemen, political legitimacy; we have parliamentary legality; legal and constitutional legitimacy is beyond doubt, but not moral legitimacy. And this aside from the concrete content of the proposed reform. Because before we propose any kind of modification of our Magna Charter, the first thing they would have to do, Minister Bolaños, is to respect the Spanish Constitution. History contemplates us and, thus, both the Government of Spain and the deputies in this House who supported it during the XIV Legislature will go into history for having starred in the most obscene attacks that are remembered to our Spanish Constitution, as VOX denounced, as VOX appealed and as VOX has won and will win, before the Constitutional Court. [[Applauds]] Because obscene and unconstitutional is to curtail the rights of the Spaniards by imposing an undercover state of emergency. Because obscene and unconstitutional is to close the Congress of Deputies and gag the opposition by order of the Government, in both cases, when we were most expected, ladies and gentlemen, when the Spanish needed us most. It is indecent that, on the part of the Government of Spain, today comes to defend precisely a proposal for constitutional reform which has been the legal architect of these most obscene attacks on the Spanish Constitution that have been carried out during these months. And, yes, Minister Bolaños, I'm referring to you. I turn to the second consideration that I would like to transfer to your ladies and gentlemen as a necessary introduction or background. I ask the speakers to take the floor in this privileged watchmanship not to continue on that path that Minister Bolaños has marked by openly lying in this House. I ask you to maintain the decorum and not to fall into the indecency of reiterating and repeating that today - if you reject the amendments to the whole that we have recorded both VOZ and the People's Party - it will be a historic day in the recognition of the rights of persons with disabilities, because nothing is further from reality, Minister Bolaños. If this reform proceeds, no additional rights will be granted to persons with disabilities. No new rights are introduced by this regulatory amendment, but it is even more serious that the rights that persons with disabilities, dependent persons, are recognized by Spanish legislation remain unfulfilled. Today is no historic day for them, so at least do not insult them, because they are still in the same situation of helplessness as they were yesterday, in which they are today and in which they will wake up tomorrow. The examples are multiple, but for lack of time I will stop exclusively in the case of an ALS patient, Jordi Sabaté, who fortunately a few hours ago returned to his home after spending two weeks at Vall d'Hebron Hospital in Barcelona. Jordi loves life, but this Government of Spain and this House offer only as an alternative to death, to him and to the rest of the patients of ELA who, as in their case, forces them to remain 24 hours a day connected to a machine. A few weeks ago, on 21 July, the price of light reached, as you will recall, a historic milestone: 106 euros per megawatt/hour. Tonight, Minister Bolaños, Government of recovery, the price of light will reach unknown and prohibitive maximums for most Spanish households: 221 euros per megawatt/hour. Ladies and gentlemen of Podemos, do not bend your head, although it is normal that, as a matter of shame, it is the only thing you can do. [[Applauds]] At a price of 106 euros I had the opportunity to go up to this rostrum and explain to the minister of energy terror that, with the most progressive government in history, as they call themselves, the most everyday acts of any Spanish household had become an act of luxury, and I asked her a question: what happens to the sick who need to live being connected 24 hours a day to an electrical appliance? The minister of energy terror guardosilence, and I spoke and was very clear in saying that the only way this Government offers these people is euthanasia. [[Applauds]] This statement caused the Socialist spokesman, Mr Germán Renau, to take the floor - excuse me if he is present, but before I start my speech I have set myself and I have not seen him in the House - from this rostrum I will be seriously disqualified. His words were: twisted and shameless. He insulted me. Unfortunately, the Presidency of the House at that time had not yet decided to fulfil its obligation to defend the decorum and dignity of Parliament. So you will understand that we applauded from VOX with fusitiveness when just two days ago he made that purpose of amendment, that we hope to keep it for the rest of the legislature. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, ladies and gentlemen of Podemos, I ask you to listen to me very carefully. "I am living in the first person the terrifying situation of knowing that if I could not pay my home assistance, 6000 euros a month, I would only have the option of asking for death by obligation. It's like being on death row and he can only save your money.' I'm just her. But the twisted and shameless I am for giving voice to those who cannot speak in this House. This reform that the Government is bringing us is not going to solve people's needs. Because they do not receive the public aid provided for in ordinary legislation, they have no choice but to die. The draft reform, to which our parliamentary group has tabled an amendment, as explained by Minister Bolaños, proposes to amend Article 49 of the Spanish Constitution included in the Third Chapter of Title I, whose current wording - it is important to mention it, minister, because it is something that has been lacking - literally is the following: 'The public authorities will carry out a policy of foresight, treatment, rehabilitation and integration of the physical, sensory and psychic diminished, to whom they will give the specialized attention that they require and protect them especially for the enjoyment of the rights that this Title grants to all citizens'. It is necessary to highlight the sensitivity of the constituent parents, of the constituent courts, who, as early as 1978, wanted persons with disabilities - at that time the term to use was that of the diminished - to have a specific and reinforced protection in our Magna Charter, and it is important to highlight it because there are few precedents in comparative law for a mention like this in the constitutions of the countries in our environment. We could cite the Constitution of the Fourth French Republic, the Portuguese Constitution or the Italian Constitution, but there are no further examples. The reform that the Government is submitting to us and that this parliamentary group rejects is not new, it takes up the path that began in 2018 and that was abruptly completed as a result of the early elections and the dissolution of these Chambers, but it maintains the same blemishes of reproach - from the necessary dispassionate speech that must be made when one approaches a constitutional reform - that already run in 2018, because if something - history contemplates us - we must attribute to the constituent parents its height of view in very complicated circumstances, which allowed them, unlike the background of our democratic history, to draw up a constitution of consensus, that is not of a party. Today, however, the constitutional reform project brought to us by the Government is a project that is completely removed from this necessary consensus, as well as explains in detail the extraordinary amendment presented by the People's Parliamentary Group, because, while it is true that they cite some background sessions in the Commission on Social Rights and Comprehensive Disability Policies, and also in the Centre for Political and Constitutional Studies attached to the Ministry of Presidency, it is no less so that these limited and sparse backgrounds are not the necessary parliamentary consensus that should trigger constitutional reform, Minister Bolaños. You are not up to it, as this draft constitutional reform is not up to it, and what is more serious, Minister, the higher consultative body of the Government, as determined by the Spanish Constitution, the Council of State, has issued a very harsh opinion that led to the qualification of this constitutional reform, which does not add a single right to persons with disabilities, as a seriously disturbing reform, because the inadequacy of the legislative technique employed, the unnecessaryity of the reform that is introduced, is such that the highest consultative body of the Government, in a subsequent opinion to these limited precedents that you mention, has completely and flatly rejected this reform proposal. But his pride is above the Council of State, the State Attorney's Office, the Public Prosecutor's Office, this House, and so, when this government receives the largest judicial wards in the history of Spain, his personal response, Minister Bolaños, to the media in corridors is that they do not care because for that they have the BOE. This parliamentary group endorses the very serious points contained in this opinion of the Council of State and, of course, will remain on the path of constitutionality, addressing any reform of the Spanish Constitution with the necessary seriousness and rigour required of us by parliamentary activity. Thank you, Madam President. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-30-CD210930.u5	Thank you, Mrs. Olona. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] To defend her amendment, by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mrs Borrego Cortés has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-30-CD210930.u6	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Spanish Constitution, as the supreme rule governing the functioning of the State and enshrining the freedoms, rights and duties of citizens, or as President Felipe González recently said, points out the framework for everyone's coexistence and regulates their reforms through strict mechanisms which inexorably require the combination of the spirit of pact and the political calm experienced by the constituent Courts. And all this becomes impossible when you want to get political revenue out of the changes. We are facing a reform that has been put forward without consensus, in an irresponsible manner and without technical legal rigour. The Constitution was made with consensus and constitutional changes must be made with agreements. Many books have been published, some of them from memories of the protagonists, which reflect the spirit of consensus that prevailed in the process of drafting the Constitution. Just over a month ago, I was talking to a constituent Member who told me how the first days of the work of the drafting group were discussed, voted and decisions taken by majority vote. That was leading a constitutional path aside. Before that, there was a meeting on the identity majority that was to be given to the text, and the mode of work was radically changed. The previous meetings of War and April Martorell began, so that an inspiring principle was consensus. In the Spanish constitutional book, Pérez-Llorca explains very clearly the method of work of the constitutional presentation. I think that the section entitled 'The method of consensus' is recommended; it reflects a spirit and a political, human and professional quality which enabled us to achieve an excellent result in the elaboration of our Magna Charter. He describes Pérez-Llorca that Fernando Abril Martorell and Alfonso Guerra staged the consensus by also negotiating with the rapporteurs, who always turn out to be the drafters of the final texts, and with the political leaders the parked texts and the unresolved issues. A constitutional text that was not born against anyone, drawn up in a spirit of integration, born of consensus and has provided us with the best years was thus achieved in a short time. More than forty years later, we should aspire to undertake any constitutional reform with the same inclusive spirit and a level of consensus as similar as possible. The Constitution, which some groups in this House today denounce, has been the framework of coexistence that has produced the greatest economic and social progress in Spain in the last three centuries. It has grown as never before, progressed in freedoms as never before, respected minorities as never before and sought the integration of the most vulnerable as ever. In order to continue sharing a common project, we must build on our true history and continue to maintain the spirit of consensus and agreement that illuminated it in order to reform the constitutional text, as agreed on the timely reforms that have been undertaken in recent years; two reforms that have given security and serenity to the process. It is not good to take that path unilaterally, a constitutional reform must be undertaken with a prior agreement between most political forces. There is no agreement if there are no assignments on the part of everyone. In view of the reform of article 49 proposed by the Government, adopted without having previously dealt with it with at least the People's Parliamentary Group, my group agrees that the change - and we have kept it in public and private - of the names applied in this article to persons with disabilities is necessary. But it seems to us that the text of the reform proposed by the Government raises to constitutional rank contents that are not specific to the Constitution, include repetitions that can be disturbing and generate comparative grievances between organizations; all this with a confusing wording and location in the constitutional text that can lead to misunderstandings. This is reflected in the opinion of the Council of State, which are not the words of this speaker. The protection of persons with disabilities, as the Minister said, has as its central focus the content of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, adopted on 13 December 2006 by the General Assembly of the United Nations, ratified by Spain and in force since 2008. This convention has a broad recognition of the rights of these people and articulates mechanisms to promote and protect them in an integral way, with the aim of alleviating their social disadvantage. It also establishes channels to ensure their equal participation in civil, political, economic, social and cultural spheres. Spain, within the framework of our Constitution and following its guidelines, has made substantial progress - and I dare say that by going ahead with the rest of the Western countries - in the care of persons with disabilities and in the promotion of equality in persons with disabilities. Not only did article 49 of the Constitution, which we are debating here today, mandate the public authorities to do so, but article 9.2 also required the public authorities not only to respect equality, but to promote equality with positive discrimination measures that would make it real. In all this way the associationism of disability has played a very important role, which has been recognized by successive governments, by all the powers of the State and in a very significant way by the Congress of Deputies. The International Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities calls for a paradigm shift in the approach to disability policies, definitively overcoming the assistance perspective of disability to address a human rights-based approach. To this end, respect for the inherent dignity of the person, individual autonomy, the independence of every human being, non-discrimination, full and effective participation and inclusion in society, equal opportunities, respect for the difference and acceptance of persons with disabilities as a manifestation of diversity and human condition are established as general principles. I am sure that these principles are fully accepted by all the groups in the House and must therefore inspire the whole process of legislative changes in Spain and all the programmes to be carried out by the public authorities and the various administrations. Placing persons with disabilities with policies of positive discrimination on an equal footing cannot and should not be subject to political confrontation, but must be assumed as always, as practically always has been, with consensus. The position of the People's Party is clear and was set out in the explanatory statement of a pre-Convention rule: Law 51/2003 on equal opportunities, non-discrimination and universal accessibility of persons with disabilities, which was voted by a very large majority in this House. The text derails how the Constitution, in its article 14, recognizes equality before the law without discrimination, and continues to state that in turn, article 9.2 of the fundamental law states that it is for the public authorities to promote the conditions for the real and effective freedom and equality of persons, removing obstacles that impede or hinder supremacy and facilitating their participation in political, cultural and social life. And article 10, which deals with fundamental rights and duties, establishes the dignity of the person as the foundation of political order and social peace. In line with these requirements, the Magna Charter, in article 49, referring to persons with disabilities, directs the public authorities to provide the necessary specialized care and special protection for the enjoyment of their rights. And it is stated in that legal text, in the explanatory statement I am quoting, that the rights and freedoms set forth are one of the essential pillars of action on disability, and that the public authorities must ensure that persons with disabilities can enjoy all human, civil, social, economic and cultural rights. That is how we have been working from my group, and I believe that from all groups, although the terminology in Article 49 is not the correct one at the present time, it is at the present time. That terminology has not prevented us from continuing to work and the Constitution has the framework and is the framework in which the content of the convention we have cited fits perfectly. Indeed, since the signing of the convention, that spirit has been transferred to the Spanish legal system. The last example is given in the recent Law 8/2021 of 2 June, which amends civil and procedural legislation for the support of persons with disabilities, cited by the Minister; a rule in which we have all worked together and which has been adopted by a very large majority in this House. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall make a number of points. My group understands, as it cannot be otherwise, that the wording of the reform of the Constitution must be in line with the report of the Council of State which I have mentioned before, because, Minister, how can that report, that opinion be ignored? We are talking about constitutional reform. We know that the Government recently does not respect the Council of State, as do other institutions, but in this case it is essential because we are talking about our Magna Charter. Any reform must therefore respect the opinion of the Council of State. We believe that it would be preferable for the legislative initiative to be born in Parliament, on the proposal of the groups. The Constitution is not of the Government, it is of all. It is essential that there is a majority agreement and that the reform should be confined to the proposed text. Why am I talking about delimiting? Have you read the minutes of the session of the Constitutional Commission on 12 May? Do you know what melon they've opened? How do you plan to close it? Minister, are you going to take on all the proposals that your government partners proposed to you that day? You need to go back to the exit box. It is necessary to start again, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, my group, both in the opposition and in the Government, we have and have had two clear ideas: to move forward in the effective and real implementation of the exercise of all the rights and duties of persons with disabilities and to do so with almost total unanimity. They'll always find us there. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-30-CD210930.u7	Thank you, Mrs. Borrego. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr García Adanero has the floor on behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-30-CD210930.u8	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the truth is that it is not normal for a Spanish minister to come out to the rostrum and say that amending an article of the Constitution solves the problems of a collective; in this case, of all persons with disabilities in Spain. That is not good because it is not true and can create a false expectation in a whole collective, which will not create that false expectation because they are not fools and, obviously, they know that amending an article of the Constitution does not solve any of their problems, none of them. The problems are solved every day; and you know that here, in recent months, enough legislation has been amended to guarantee all those rights that were not guaranteed and that we had an obligation, as Congress, to guarantee. They have been done; they have been changing legislation for a few years to guarantee day-to-day rights. But, as has been said here by other speakers, then there is the daily reality; that reality which affects you as a whole of citizens, but in a special way because of your situation, such as the crazy price of light, such as inflation at 4% or any other problem of which we all have, but which they see aggravated by your personal situation. And that is not resolved by amending article 49 of the Constitution. One cannot be so self-sufficient, saying that if we adopt the Constitution, those people will be left with the problems. You can't do that! Besides, you've said things that don't fit reality. You know that you have not brought here the same text that the spokespersons agreed in Legislature XII. It's just not the same text! It cannot be said that it is a text agreed in Congress and bring a different text to the House for debate, because then the whole truth is not being told; and that text is not the same; it has been modified. I think these things have to be said. On the other hand, it should be pointed out - and it has also been said here by other speakers - that a constitutional amendment, as you have commented, would be good if it were approved with as many people as possible, of course, with the necessary majority that establishes the Magna Charter itself, but that does so without talking to anyone in advance. So when we talk about consensus - which, in particular, you like to talk about big consensus - we already know that consensus does it with those who do it, but, of course, what you have brought here is the initiative to the House, but without talking to the parliamentary groups beforehand, and, above all, in this case, with the majority parliamentary group in the House, which can make a sufficient number of votes to carry out this constitutional amendment. When we talk about the amendment of the Constitution, I am not going to go into other debates because I do not want to fail to respect what this amendment provides and the people who are affected by Article 49, so - I repeat - I am not going to go into the debate of the constitutional melon that would give for a long time and, of course, in our case for very important things; there will be time in the House to talk about these issues. But, of course, I believe that the position that the Government has brought is not the right one. We understand that there are things that can be changed. You have made as your own questions that are not yours. The first person who brought to this House the possibility that persons with disabilities could exercise the right to vote was Union del Pueblo Navarro. It was also an initiative that at first was not well received by some. It is true that, then, through an initiative of the Madrid Assembly, it was taken into consideration by the whole House and, in the end, it was adopted. But it did cost us a lot of work that that initiative we understood of justice some understood it as good. I hope that this sensitivity that we have had some and that we have had over the years in this House with initiatives such as the creation of the Special Commission on Disability itself will serve others to gradually continue to function and to continue to solve the problems of these people. In short, with the amendment of Article 49 we do not solve the problem of light, we do not solve the problem of inflation, we do not solve the problem of education and we do not solve any specific problems for them. We are solving it day by day and we hope that the Government, which has the most capacity, will put sufficient resources in place so that these people, not waiting for the amendment of Article 49 to be approved, can live with the dignity they deserve as the rest of the Spaniards. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-30-CD210930.u9	Thank you, Mr. García. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Giménez Giménez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-30-CD210930.u10	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I would like to begin by saying that for me it is an honour that we are debating in this House a breakthrough in our legislative text par excellence. I believe that the best tribute we can pay to the generation that gave rise to our democratic system is to work on updating our Constitution and adapting it to the new times, which is an advance in rights. Furthermore, I would like to make it clear that, when we talk about the situation of persons with disabilities and about progress in rights, of course we do not resolve with a reform everything that we need to improve: employment inclusion, non-discrimination, inclusive education when we talk about people with disabilities. But the use of language also improves and represents progress in rights and that is why we have to bear in mind that in our magna charter we keep talking about diminished. Given what CERMI itself says in this regard, we must amend it because we must not use offensive language for people with disabilities. [[Applauds]] Free persons, equal persons, people who, as a hex, suffer a great deal of discrimination in certain areas of their lives, and people with disabilities deserve our full attention and support. We must continue to make progress and, moreover, that is what we are doing in this House: in 2018 we advanced with the recognition of the right to vote, we have talked about the reforms that we have had at the last moment. Furthermore, I am proud that, from Citizens with the support of the entire House, you have succeeded in reforming the Criminal Code in order to prevent the forced sterilization of women with disabilities. [[Applauds]] On this path we are, ladies and gentlemen. We're all on the path to progress in recognition and we can't take a step back. As a legislative branch, we must accompany persons with disabilities in this process. It is our obligation because the Constitution itself, in its article 9.2, speaks of promoting conditions for real and effective freedom and equality. Removing obstacles, removing the use of language that is offensive to persons with disabilities is removing obstacles today. [[Applauds]] That is why I do not understand that there are two amendments in their entirety. What they are doing, both the ladies and gentlemen of VOX and the People's Party, is to put obstacles to this path of progress in the field of law. I am also surprised that they have been at the European level for a long time, avoiding issues such as cross-border crime, the issue of gender-based violence or voting against the recognition of de facto couples throughout Europe. That is, they are on a path - the People's Party has pointed out quite a bit - that, in matters of equality and in matters of freedom, they are causing setbacks. Of course, this proposal can be improved, and the Council of State itself says so. Moreover, the Council of State itself is not opposed to reform. You have to read the whole report right. It does not oppose reform, it makes improvements. The Citizens' Parliamentary Group wants to make improvements, wants to work, to remarry - which is what this parliamentary group usually does -, to work and to improve it, but it does not oppose the reform itself and I believe that our obligation is to come here to work, to make the contributions that have to be made and to reach consensus in areas as relevant as the progress in the rights of persons with disabilities. That is why, in this case, what I am asking the People's Party to rectify. We ask them to abandon the path of opposing the recognition and improvement of the rights of persons with disabilities and to support the reform of this specific point of the Constitution which is very necessary, because such reform also serves to dignify our magnanimous charter and to pay tribute to those who built it. It is not a reform that affects our model of state, because they also sometimes distort certain parliamentary groups. It doesn't come up with any of that. It is a reform that it does is to address the situation of persons with disabilities and to give them greater recognition to their rights through the proper use of language. When we read your amendment, we see that they have mixed up issues that do not under any circumstances justify the rejection of this reform; a reform that has a totally necessary fund; a reform that we must draw up in accordance with the international standards for the recognition of the rights of persons with disabilities. We are talking about social improvement and, therefore, in the Citizens Parliamentary Group we are going to be on this side of the reform, clearly. We are going to work for this reform, we are going to make it possible and, in addition, we are going to give voice to people with disabilities. As I say to you - people have been spoken here with ELA - the Citizens' Parliamentary Group has put forward a proposal for a law to improve the situation of people with ELA, because words and facts have to be translated, and I expect everyone in this House to do so as well. [[Applauds]] That is what I hope: on major issues of consensus, let us put the political colours aside and support what is best for building our society. If you decide to take the final consequences, both the People's Party and the VOX, this amendment to the whole will have to explain to the Spaniards why they turned their backs on people with disabilities, they will have to explain to them why they put obstacles to the recognition of the proper use of language in our Magna Carta for people with disabilities. That's why I'm telling you again: rectify, let's work, let's work on this road together, it's where you're always going to find the Citizens Parliamentary Group. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-30-CD210930.u11	Thank you very much, Mrs Giménez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor for the Plural Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-30-CD210930.u12	Thank you very much, President. Does PP and VOX really oppose this reform? Are they really opposed to guaranteeing the rights of persons with disabilities? Are they really opposed to guaranteeing their personal autonomy and social inclusion? Are you really opposed to changing the definition to persons with disabilities? There is a stage in the development of children - those we have been parents we know - which is the age of no, not everything. VOX and PP are at that stage and do not leave that stage. Grow, grow, for God's sake, and stop being in the not everything! When we talk about the Constitution, there is always a very catchy phrase: the Constitution that we have all given ourselves. This Constitution is already mature, it is forty-three years old. Virtually very few people in this Congress voted for this Constitution. Even I myself, who already have a grandson, did not vote for it because I was not old enough to vote for it. Hey, in 43 years this country has changed a lot, a lot. Well, sometimes, seeing the VOX bench, it looks like we're still in the NO-DO, but, finally, the country in general has changed a lot. And there are reforms, many reforms that are needed, for example, word reforms. The Constitution only recognizes marriage between men and women; this is the Congress of Deputies, and there are deputies. We have already called for reform to be called Congress; Congress and Senate, and this includes Members of Parliament.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-30-CD210930.u13	Mr. Baldoví, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-30-CD210930.u14	And there are so many other realities that you don't contemplate. Let us therefore lose the fear of reforming this Constitution, which is now many years old. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-30-CD210930.u15	Thank you very much, Mr. Baldoví. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the same parliamentary group, Mr Boadella Esteve has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-30-CD210930.u16	Good morning. Look, I wanted to mention a person who represents as no one the political legacy of my political formation, Ramón Trias Fargas. Ramón Trias Fargas was elected a Member of Parliament in 1977, and on 21 February 1980 he presented the well-known Lismi, a law aimed at ensuring that persons with disabilities and their integration into the world of work. In that parliamentary debate he said: It is too late to recover the tears that have been shed, but it is time to amend things as soon as possible. This is the reason for this law: to amend things as soon as possible. There has been a long road since 1980, when Ramón Trias Fargas pushed for the approval of the Lysmi, until today, and in the last part of this road there have been numerous reforms to ensure that people with disabilities are cared for. There have been intensive discussions and consensus-building, as mentioned above: the recovery of the right to vote of persons with legal disabilities, the eradication of forced sterilization, and the recent amendment of civil and procedural legislation on capacity. And yes, totally agree, it is now also the Spanish Constitution of 1978. The term diminished for persons with disabilities is not welcome, and this expression, that of persons with disabilities, is valid and agreed by the sector, by the latest legislation and also by the convention that obliges the Spanish State. For our part, therefore, this is a necessary reform, it is a reform that must begin to work. Undoubtedly, these amendments to the whole do not cease to be another stone in the way of many people with disabilities, another stone in the way of recognition and support for these people with disabilities. The PP pointed to a question of method. I believe that there are issues of substance and form, and the way in which this amendment is presented to the whole, without a doubt, demonstrates an opposition to this change. What's the alternative if not? VOX raised in his speech, in his initial approach, the question of moral legitimacy. I won't be the one to remind you of the difference between law and morality. Here we are to do law. Morals, let them go with the individual conscience of each one; the right must be at the side of the people we represent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-30-CD210930.u17	Thank you very much, Mr Boadella. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Finally, also for the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Pagès i Massó has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-30-CD210930.u18	Good morning, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, once again we are faced with a series of topics from the extreme right and the extreme right; amendments to the whole of PP and VOX, which are aberrant because they are ideological and unnecessary to update the Constitution, with what they show, one, that their ideology is anchored in nightly prejudices and, two, that they are afraid to open the reform of the Constitution. Ladies and gentlemen, defending the inviolability of constitutions runs counter to genuine constitutionalism, democratic. We, the independenceists, from our democratic radicality, believe that the constitutions must reflect them basic consensuss of the coexistence of societies, and when these consensuss move, it is necessary that the constitutions reflect it. Because you know something? Societies are alive, evolving, and constitutions cannot remain as a picturesque artifact of an outdated past. We say this, ladies and gentlemen, because the independenceists are constitutionalists, but of democratic and pluralist constitutionalism, that of rights and freedoms, not that of the Rojigualda Constitution. In the text of the Spanish Constitution there is still much that sounds like rancio; for example, the offensive letter and the paternalistic spirit of article 49. Although the regulatory technique used seems to us to be much better, this article needs to be changed and pointed. The reference to the diminished that you want to maintain should be deleted. When a collective asks to be named respectfully, it must be named respectfully. This is giving dignity to this collective. Moreover, since the adoption of the 2006 United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, this change is imperative. On the subject of content, we welcome the move from a medical and tweaking approach to a rights and duties-oriented approach, the shift from personal autonomy and social inclusion to public action, and the involvement of third-sector organizations. We welcome the specific reference to the situation of women and girls with disabilities. It says VOX that the references to the third sector and to women and girls cause him to be stupor; to us what causes us to be stupor is his stupor before what is normal. We ask for a little sense of reality and respect for people in general and, in particular, for people with disabilities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-30-CD210930.u19	Thank you, Mr Pagès. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Cortés Gómez has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in common.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-30-CD210930.u20	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, Minister. With the reform to which the right-wing parties are opposed, increasingly mingling each other, article 49 of the Spanish Constitution will be updated to bring it into line with the 2006 International Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. This is a reform, ladies and gentlemen, which is late, but it is never too late if the bliss is good. Firstly, it is a question of changing the term 'diminished' to replace it with the new term 'disabled persons'. In this way, language is updated in a way that reflects the very values of the Constitution and the dignity of the collective that must be protected. As the Minister of Social Rights and Agenda 2030, Ione Belarus, has explained, this reform repairs a legal, social and moral anomaly with persons with disabilities. This is the right way. Effective recognition of human rights must be the goal and path of our country. Honestly, it is difficult to digest any parties that are committed to continuing to call their compatriots down. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party and of VOX, what are the real reasons why they oppose this constitutional reform. Is everything valid for you so as to oppose the government? The reform of article 49 places emphasis on the rights and duties of persons with disabilities as free and equal citizens. In addition, this reform sets out the objectives that should guide the positive action of the public authorities, such as their full personal autonomy and social inclusion. The Spanish Committee of Representatives of Persons with Disabilities has stressed the importance of this reform, especially since the new article crystallizes the vision of human rights in line with international and European frameworks. The Spanish Confederation of Persons with Disabilities stresses that the amendment includes the defence of inclusion and independent life, gender perspective and dialogue with organizations and inclusive language. Ladies and gentlemen of the progressive groups, in the face of the reactionary strategy of the right, it is necessary to move forward in a process of legal and cultural transformation, which involves changing dominant conceptions of political language that tend to deny certain groups their dignity. As the Minister pointed out here, at the 2019 Goya gala, Jesus Vidal, awarded as best actor revelation for his performance in the film Champions, pointed out three words that must be nuclear in today's debate: inclusion, diversity and visibility. Well, today I want to highlight the history of struggle of people with disabilities, and it is that in this country, persons with disabilities until well into the franchise were linked to feelings of shame, were imprisoned and excluded from public life and were denied any possibility of playing an active role in society. It was in the 1970s that persons with disabilities began to organize themselves into groups to combat their relegation to the home or to institutions of detention and the exclusion of the labour market that made it impossible for them to earn a living. These struggles for justice broke with the charitable, caring and paternalistic model and questioned the social model that segregated and excluded them. At present, in the plural and democratic society, disability is understood as a contextual and dynamic characteristic of the human condition, and persons with disabilities claim the recognition of a diverse humanity, challenging the traditional notion of bodily and intellectual normality. We're all familiar with disability. No one is alien, either by their own experiences or by the experiences of loved ones. It should therefore not be so difficult to empathize with this reform of Article 49. Ladies and gentlemen, today you are re-immigrating, blue and green, green and blue, exercising political irresponsibility. I believe that in substance they do not oppose both the content of Article 49 and a reform of the constitutional status quo. The spokesman for the People's Party in Congress has already said in statements to the media: It is not the politically opportune time to reform the Constitution. In the background, what you do not want is to break the seal that keeps the Constitution intact, our Magna Charter, but you can no longer prevent constitutional rules from advancing at the pace that society is advancing. The immobile will of the PP and VOX clash, is discompassed with the times that marks an active and exciting civil society. The Constitution must be seen as a living instrument, which can and must be developed for the common good. Thank you very much, President. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-30-CD210930.u21	Thank you, Mr. Cortés. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, Mr Ruiz i Carbonell has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-30-CD210930.u22	I want to address the world of organized disability and those who are prevented by the restrictions of the pandemic today from filling the hemicycle's stands and following us through the screens; also all those who live with their disability, in their workplace, representing us in the Paralympic Games or not even have an environment that cares about them, and the whole of society to convey to them the total and absolute rejection of the Socialist Parliamentary Group of the amendments we are debating. [[briefly expressed in sign language]] [[Applauds]] On most occasions, from this rostrum we come together to tell people with disabilities that they are part of society, to build a legal framework that guarantees the exercise of their duties and rights, like any other citizen, by implementing the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities of the United Nations, in force in Spain since 2008. From what we have heard, it seems that this time it is not so, that not all are willing to take a new step. Socialists do, because it is part of our DNA to guarantee rights and achieve the full inclusion of all in society, not out of a desire for notoriety, not out of electoral calculation, not out of hidden intentions, which they clearly know we do not have, nor out of a fleeting whim. They have programmes of successive electoral campaigns, the minister has said. In the XII Legislature we agreed on a text to reform the article in the Commission on Comprehensive Policies for Disability, which was then chaired by MP Jordi Xuclà. Its processing was truncated by the dissolution of Congress, the repetition of the elections, the pandemic and the states of alarm. It also shows that it is not a whim for us to participate in the majorities that have passed legislation these years that allows persons with disabilities to marry on equal terms, to participate in juries, to have the right to vote, to prevent forced or non-consensual sterilization, or that at last the reform on the exercise of their legal capacity has been completed and that we presented in the Senate, in order to reactivate the reform of the article, a motion adopted almost unanimously last December, that is, with the favorable vote of the People's Party, and once again shows that, after the state of alarm, it is back on the table. The text, basically, was drafted in the XII Legislature, which was able to capture the aspirations of the world of disability and to agree on the criteria of all parliamentary groups. To this end, we celebrate appearances - Luis Cayo Pérez, president of Cermi; Rafael de Lorenzo, professor of UNED; Yolanda Gómez, director of the Center for Political and Constitutional Studies; Vicky Bendito, journalist affected by the Treater Collins Syndrome - and we even organize a seminar at the Center for Political and Constitutional Studies. We need few meetings to agree, and on December 4th we sent the Vice-President, Carmen Calvo, a letter to request that our proposal be processed and sent to her. The proposal has been improved through dialogue with entities representing disability and with comments from the Council of State, which has not opposed it. The Socialists have not intended to do this alone nor to be their protagonists, aware that social changes like this, which affect the whole of society, require broad consensus. We can understand that VOX is presenting such an amendment. They are what they are; by correcting the Bible, we can say: By their votes you will know them. They use our Constitution as a sort of parapet against any upgrade, modernization, reform or advancement - little favor they do - leaving us with the feeling that they only read from it what is right for them. They become, as today, a kind of Constitutional Court bis or one of the Inquisition, condemning them all to hell, for, after that and after a muddle of political figures many times, to hide their no to disability. They're excuses. It is more difficult to understand that the People's Party is calling for the bill to be returned to the Government. To do so is to maintain that the Constitution continues to call persons with disabilities diminished. Would Manuel Fraga use this word today? They suggest that they already agree with the medical-rehabilitative conception of the current wording; they do not advocate that persons with some kind of disability be holders of duties and rights, like any other. To do so is not to commit to the implementation by the public authorities of policies that guarantee full personal autonomy, social inclusion and respect for the freedom of choice and preference of persons with disabilities. To present it is to reject dialogue and cooperation as the basis for the relationship of powers with entities representing them; to take away the vulnerability of women and girls with disabilities; not to reinforce that persons with disabilities from institutions have the specialized care they require; to make it difficult for persons with disabilities to enjoy the protection provided by international treaties. You know? It is hard to understand that the party of general directors of Disability, such as Nacho Treviño or Borja Fanjul, do so. You do not present it because you think the text is better or worse or because you disagree in whole or in part. It gives me the impression that they do so because when they govern others they are unable to hold their shoulders or to rejoice when things improve; because they are hostages of their incompetence before VOX to occupy the space of the far right; because they are hostages of their policy of burning, blocking and not everything. [[applause]] It is a policy that associates to make noise to cover up that the vaccination campaign is going well, that our economy is improving, that the negotiation of European funds has gone well, that the numbers of occupied ones are improving, that we have regained international prestige or to distort efforts to build bridges between a part of Catalonia and the rest of Spain, a situation in which it seems that you were only passing through there. But it turns out that this policy has crossed over with this bill and has made 3.8 million people's interests, aspirations, illusions and rights conditional on its policy, becoming mere collateral victims of it. We can still make this path all the Democrats together. Do not use as an excuse the theory of not opening the melon; here there is no melon. We're waiting for you at the Constitutional Commission. They have said nothing to prevent us from moving further along that path to place an anchor in the Constitution for the policies of persons with disabilities.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-30-CD210930.u23	Mr. Ruiz, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-30-CD210930.u24	Okay. Thank you. [[It is briefly expressed in sign language.-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-30-CD210930.u25	Thank you very much, Mr. Ruiz. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-30-CD210930.u26	We continue with the item on the agenda for the debate on the entire draft law guaranteeing the purchasing power of pensions and other measures to strengthen the financial and social sustainability of the public pension system. I should like to inform you that the Republican Parliamentary Group has called for this bill to be enacted. That request shall be put to the vote after the vote on the amendment as a whole. For the presentation of the bill, I have the floor on behalf of the Government, the Minister for Inclusion, Social Security and Migration.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-30-CD210930.u27	President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to present today from this rostrum the draft law guaranteeing the purchasing power of pensions and other measures to strengthen the sustainability of the system. This is a bill born of consensus; it is the result of the effort, contributions and generosity of a wide spectrum of political and social forces, and, more importantly, it includes key measures to improve our present and future pensioners. This bill has its genesis in this very House, where, less than a year ago, political groups were able to park their short-term concerns and send a clear message to the Government and society about what to do about pensions. After ten years without agreement, ladies and gentlemen, you have managed to agree on recommendations within the Toledo Pact which were endorsed with only two votes against in this House. Once again I would like to reiterate my appreciation to all those who, from the legitimate discrepancy, but in a constructive spirit, worked within the Toledo Pact Commission to move these recommendations forward. These recommendations that you endorsed a year ago have been our permanent reference throughout this process and they continue to be. What we are now bringing to the House is the implementation of those recommendations in an articulated text that will certainly improve the lives of our citizens. The text I am presenting here today is supported by the social partners, by all of them, who signed an agreement with the Government on 1 July, even after a decade without consensus. I would especially like to thank here the social partners - the CEO, Cepyme, the Workers' Committees, UGT, and also the self-employed associations, ATA, Uatae and UPTA - for their work, their commitment to dialogue and their contributions to improving the content of this agreement. The work of the social dialogue table has not been easy. It has been nine months of intense and constant laborious work, seeking to incorporate the legitimate concerns of entrepreneurs and workers into the text. It's been hard work, but it's worth it. I genuinely believe that the result is an improved text. As I have often recalled, the search for consensus makes the agreements stronger and more durable. This, which is certainly a basic principle of good governance, is particularly important in the area of pensions, where the decisions we take today will have long-term effects. It is a great consensus, in short, for which we must all congratulate ourselves. The text that we bring to the debate in Congress does not only incorporate the contributions of the labour and business world, it also responds to the ongoing dialogue that we have had from our ministry with the European partners in order to explain how these measures in the field of the pension system are a central element in the structural transformation of our economy and our country in the medium and long term. That is why we wanted to include these measures explicitly in the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan. Following a frank and ongoing dialogue with the European Commission, these measures constitute component 30 of that plan, validated and approved, as you know, by the Council of the European Union. The draft legislation that we are bringing here responds scrupulously, therefore, to the commitments that Spain has made to Europe both on the content and depth of the reforms and within the agreed time frame. Irresponsibly putting this reform at risk would mean damaging the plan, and with it, all its capacity to finance and transform our country. I assure you that it would be misunderstood from the instances and the EPAs that a reform agreed with them will be adopted with less consensus simply on short-lived grounds. By its nature, by the way it has been developed and by its role in the recovery plan as a whole, it is not a party reform, it is not even a government reform, it is a country reform. [[Applauds]] We have counted on all of you, we have incorporated in the best possible way all your concerns and sensitivities, we have counted on employers and workers, we have worked with the European authorities, always having as main objective in mind the well-being of our citizens, and, as it cannot be otherwise, we will continue to do so. It is a collective responsibility, which cannot be affected by short-term interests, and a consensual response to the demand of our citizens, whom we cannot disappoint. This reform is, in short, a historic opportunity to build a new and true framework that strengthens through various tools the sustainability of the system and ensures stable and dignified pensions for all. I will then summarise the main elements of the reform. Firstly, the main objective of the reform is to eliminate uncertainty in our pensioners, current and future. Its foundational element is therefore the permanent guarantee of the purchasing power of pensions, a central principle which you agreed in this House and which this reform assumes as your own, establishing a new mechanism that clearly guarantees the right to the revaluation of pensions in line with the increase in the cost of living. Let me recall Recommendation 2 of the Toledo Pact, which was voted here just under a year ago and which literally states: 'The annual revaluation of pensions on the basis of the real CPI is presented as the mechanism to preserve the purchasing power of pensions'. Preservation of the purchasing power of pensions is the greatest message of tranquillity that we can send to pensioners, as you understood last fall. The guarantee of the purchasing power of pensions is common to all countries in our environment and is the best instrument we have to give certainty to pensioners. They must know that they will have a sufficient pension when they retire and that this pension will always retain their purchasing power, whatever happens, governs who rules. The new mechanism set out in this draft law provides for a revaluation with the average inflation of the previous year and puts an end to a stage in which the rule governing the evolution of pensions imposed a systematic assessment of its purchasing power, a stage further defined by the uncertainty caused by the finding by the Government itself that it had approved it was an unsustainable rule. This uncertainty is unfair to pensioners, harmful to the system and politically harmful to all. It must end, and you, ladies and gentlemen, must make it possible. As we have seen in the various surveys of recent years, since the adoption of the last reform, without any consensus, the uncertainty about our system has been growing since 2013, something understandable if we take into account that the mechanisms established there meant in twenty years an accumulated loss of purchasing power of 40% of the pension for an average and even greater pensioner for those close to the maximum pension. Is it reasonable for someone who retires with a pension of 1000 euros to end twenty years later earning 600 euros? The mechanism that was then adopted did not exist in any country in our environment, it was economically unjust and ultimately socially unsustainable. This lesson we have all learned, at least that I believed until Monday last week, when I heard the leader of your party, Mrs Gamarra, say that if you re-governance you will resume the 2013 pension reform; a reform that drove thousands and thousands of pensioners into the street against the rise imposed by the 0.25 pension amount, a reform that contemplated the sustainability factor that you now claim but that you yourself did not dare to implement, delaying its implementation twice. We now have the opportunity to eliminate that fear that our pensioners have and to resume the CPI as a permanent mechanism of re-evaluation, fulfilling the constitutional mandate of Article 50 to regularly update pensions to ensure the economic sufficiency of citizens during the senior years. Our pensioners should know that their pension will grow to the same extent as the cost of living. Those who take up retirement with a pension of 1000 euros will see that the pension will grow in nominal terms so that in real terms it will continue to retain the purchasing power of the 1000 euros with which it retired. This is the central element of this new reform, this recovery of a right that brings us closer to the common revaluation systems in the countries of our environment, and we have been able to agree on this in the Toledo Pact, in the social dialogue and with the European authorities. Let's not put him at risk, ladies and gentlemen. Secondly, the bill I am presenting today also eliminates the other great source of uncertainty for our pensioners, the deficit that unjustly reflects the social security accounts. In line with recommendation 1 which you adopted a year ago, we propose the completion of the separation of sources of funding and the transfer of non-contributory social security expenditure to the General State Budgets. It is fair that we reassure our pensioners by being transparent about the current and actual situation in the Social Security accounts. In Spain, ladies and gentlemen, we have a reasonably high level of social contributions and an average pension expenditure even slightly lower than the countries in our environment. For this reason, the Social Security accounts should not cast any deficit, and if they do so it is because social contributions income covers some legitimate and relevant policies in many cases, but which should not be paid with the quotas of employers and workers, but through contributions from the State. The Toledo Pact identified more than 22 billion of these social security expenses, but they should not be financed by social contributions. That is why we are already responding to this consensus recommendation in the Toledo Pact. As a result, 14 billion of this non-contributory expenditure was covered last year, and in the 2022 budget this amount will be raised to EUR 184 billion. And our commitment, also reflected in the agreement with the social partners, is that Social Security has budgetary balance at the end of the parliamentary term. But we will not only end the deficit of the system this legislature, but we have committed together with the Ministry of Finance that any new policy that we want to finance from Social Security must be covered by the General Budgets of the State. We have thus managed to make our pension system a little more like that of the countries in our environment. If this assumption had been made years ago, instead of burdening the system with expenses without its corresponding funding, we now have a reserve fund with sufficient resources to meet the increase in pension expenditure resulting from the retirement of the youngest. [[Applauds]] I know some people call this cosmetic measure, but I honestly believe it's because they don't take into account the damage it does to our system and our pensioners. Read headlines daily about artificially red Social Security numbers and their lack of resources unhindered present and future pensioners, and does not reflect the actual situation of Social Security accounts. Again, we must combat this uncertainty that unjustly harms pensioners and taxpayers and erodes the confidence of the system. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall now refer to the third element that I would like to highlight from the bill that we have brought to this House, the range of measures to bring the effective retirement age closer to the ordinary age, as you included in recommendation 11 of those voted just under a year ago. This range of measures is essential to strengthen the sustainability of the system and, therefore, also inseparable from the commitment to maintain the purchasing power of pensions on a permanent basis. In Spain, ladies and gentlemen, in terms of the ordinary age of access to retirement, we have a more than reasonable starting point, a retirement age which today is 66 years and which in 2027 will be fixed at 67 years for workers under 38.5 years of age. But that does not mean that we have better practices and, therefore, we need to generate incentives to change this situation. I have said it many times, I have defended it in all forums and I repeat it here: Spain does not need to change its legal retirement age, it is adequate and sufficient. What we must achieve is that the effective retirement age, the average age at which our pensioners actually retire, is close to that established by law. To achieve this goal, we prefer to use individual incentives rather than forcing people to retire later than they do. This preference is based on two principles that I believe are shared by all: the first, that retirement is a right, not an obligation, and the second, that not all people have the same willpower to continue working when they reach certain ages. For this reason, the system must promote the lengthening of working careers only for those who want to continue working and not for those who, by the nature of their work or by vital circumstances, do not want or cannot do so. We have found that many of the reasons why the effective retirement age is lower than ordinary - the one provided for by law - are alien to the will of pensioners themselves. Many workers are expelled from the labour market at an early age and their exit is a loss for them and for all. Many others, given their circumstances, might wish to work more and be compensated for by the pension system, but we know that the incentives offered so far to pensioners who delay their access to retirement are little known, very little generous and, ultimately, much less used than in other countries. Thus, when we compare ourselves with the countries in our environment, we observe that the percentage of the population between 25 and 54 years of age participating in the labour market is somewhat higher than that of the European average, but it is significantly lower for workers over 55 years of age. That is not only a problem for the pension system, it is a problem for those people and for society, which is unable to take advantage of their experience and knowledge. This must change, we cannot waste the talent and experience of our workers over the age of 55, on the contrary, we must work so that they can continue to contribute, so that companies continue to count on them in the right and parallel positions, and this is also very important, to review the access of early retirement to groups with special conditions of penosity. Everything is compatible in this sense. And since the debate has opened, let me tell you that expelling older workers from the labour market does not encourage the employment of younger workers. The empirical evidence is overwhelming and tells us the opposite: the countries with the highest rates of activity of older workers are also those with the highest rates of activity of young workers. Older workers and young workers are not substitutes, they are complementary. In this country we know very well. The massive incorporation of women into the labour market did not reduce the number of men employed, nor was the arrival of immigrants accompanied by fewer jobs for the Spanish. To bring the effective age closer to the legal age, there are various measures in this reform to make it easier for those at these ages who wish to work to continue to do so on a voluntary basis, exempting companies from contributions by common contingencies from compliance with the ordinary retirement age and compensating pensioners economically if, through their stay in employment, a profit is generated for the system. In a novel way, we introduce an option to capitalise the incentive in the form of a retirement premium of up to EUR 12,000 for each year that voluntarily delays access to retirement, making the system of early retirement coefficients more flexible so that workers can access better pensions if they delay, even if it is one month, their access to retirement. But in order for these delayed retirement incentives to be deployed, the bill includes another stalemate agreed with the social partners: the elimination of forced retirement clauses from collective agreements. This clause, ladies and gentlemen, made retirement an obligation for many workers, when it really is, and should be, treated in our system as a right. These clauses, which have been progressively disappearing in all comparative law, render ineffective any measure to encourage delayed retirement and do not take into account the willingness of a worker to make such a relevant decision as it is when he wishes to retire. The bill presented today in this House provides for the elimination of this clause when the age is less than 68 years, with the very important exception of those sectors in which there is a female under-representation, provided that a woman is hired. In short, changing access to retirement, not through legal changes but through voluntary incentives, which through multiple individual decisions can have a huge added effect on the system. According to the Social Security calculations, this is the most powerful measure we can put in place to strengthen the sustainability of our system. That is why the bill I am presenting today includes, as I have just described, a wide range of measures in this regard. Let me now mention one of the collectives that is not always taken into account when talking about pensions: our young people. In this bill, there are fundamental measures for them. We have to make sure that the generations who have just entered the labour market and those who have just been born will have access to a pension, as we have those who are already veterans. First, the bill includes the repeal of the current sustainability factor, a mechanism as unfair as it is ill-designed, without consensus, that the previous Government postponed its implementation until 2023 twice, first until 2019 and then until 2023 itself. It is not surprising that the application and practical implication of this factor will be carried out. The younger one was, the greater the cut-off in the entry pension automatically, as a result of the sustainability factor. To illustrate this, consider a young man who is now 18 years old who will retire there by the year 2060 or 2065, the pension cut was to be 20%. Is it reasonable and acceptable for someone, just because he is younger, to have to suffer a cut of this caliber? We all agree it's not, it's not. Therefore, in agreement with the social partners, we propose the replacement of the sustainability factor by an intergenerational equity mechanism, which is in the process of dialogue, but whose limbs have been reflected in the agreement signed with the social partners on 1 July. It will be a very important, contingent mechanism; that is, it would be activated only if the evolution of income and expenditure of the system required it, and limited to the years in which the system bears greater demographic pressure. It is a question of protecting our young people in particular, who have reached a labour market in particularly difficult circumstances for them. In addition, there is a commitment in the agreement to a measure widely requested by young people, which is the contribution of practices. We know that for many young people entry into the labour market is through unpaid scholarships and that, in many cases, these periods, which are sometimes prolonged over time, do not count in their working lives because companies do not contribute to them. Well, from now on these periods will count in your working life because we have agreed with the social partners. Ladies and gentlemen, you can see that this bill that I am presenting today is - and I believe it is - very beneficial for everyone. In it we have tried to make the most valuable recommendations that you adopted in this Chamber after many months of negotiation. This standard also reflects the spirit of consensus, which you yourself have shown in our long negotiations within the framework of social dialogue. Faced with those who say that it only includes simple or 'empty measures', I think we can assume that we have brought a comprehensive and substantive bill, which addresses concretely and effectively the challenges we must face, and does so by strengthening our pension system as a public system of distribution based on intergenerational solidarity. This bill takes up the path of consensus in 2011 and eliminates the uncertainties associated with the failed reforms of recent years. Our aim must be to restore certainty and to do so with gradual and transparent reinforcement measures, allowing pensioners to stop worrying about their near future and young people to regain confidence in a system that takes them into account. We have done so by restoring the consensus on pensions, both here in Parliament and at the social dialogue table, working with the European authorities in the context of the recovery plan and reflecting the result in a rule, which I believe is something we should all welcome. It makes no sense to block this consensual process, neither these structural changes nor the arrival of these European funds. This process of dialogue of agreement and improvement must not derail, we cannot go back to the systematic loss of the purchasing power of pensions, to uncertainty, to the breakdown of commitments with Europe and with the social partners, but, ultimately, to have a plan to strengthen our system. This is a state policy and we have understood that since the first day. With this will we have worked and dialogued, heard and agreed, with each other and with each other. It is a long-term policy, in which everyone's voices are to be heard, it is a policy in which blockades and vetoes make no sense. In the parliamentary process we will have the opportunity to discuss and improve the legislative text and we will do so in our best constructive spirit, which has accompanied us throughout this time. It's time to build, not destroy. It is time to think about the long term, to put the long lights and transmit certainty. That is what our country and the system needs and what our citizens expect and deserve. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-30-CD210930.u28	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] An amendment to the full refund has been submitted to this bill. For the defence of the amendment tabled, I have the floor, by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Cabezón Casas.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-30-CD210930.u29	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to rise to the rostrum today on behalf of the People's Parliamentary Group to do what the Government of the nation should have done: defend the Spaniards, defend our public pension system and try to ensure that it remains the great pillar of our social and welfare model. [[Applauds]] Unfortunately, we all know that sanchism has different priorities than that of citizens as a whole. As the Spaniards look with concern at the future and sustainability of our pension model, you bring to this House an incomplete project, a project that is abstract from reality and a project completely alien to our social, labour and economic situation. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, I anticipate that my group will ask, as it could not otherwise be, for this initiative to be returned. There are many reasons that lead us to this, but I will tell you the main ones. First of all, we will not support a reform that is absolutely without Parliament, Minister, trying to circumvent the ordinary procedure of a bill. We know that you do not like parliamentary control, we already know that, but your obligation is to be accountable and to talk to everyone. That is not what the People's Party says, as the Constitutional Court says every day. Secondly, we will never support a project from which we do not know its fundamental content. How and how will you ensure the sustainability of our system? Where is your intergenerational equity mechanism, Minister? What is it? When will the intergenerational equity mechanism be presented to us, Minister, not to the People's Party but also to the social dialogue? Minister, you signed the agreement in July and today you still do not have the mechanism of intergenerational equity on the table. That is what you are talking about, the sustainability of pensions, and that is the deficit you have: you do not present the papers, nor do we know what the bulk of your reform is, Minister. Thirdly, we will never support a reform which thinks exclusively of today, but which forgets the pensioners of tomorrow and the day before tomorrow. Finally, we will never support a project that goes against the general interest and also against the essence of the principles of the People's Party which are: better pensions, better jobs and better economic system for Spain and for the Spanish, Minister, but also for the future. [[The Lord]] Ladies and gentlemen, it presents us with a project that clearly defines the government's policy: a reform in time, by fascicles. Today he has presented us with the preamble, the comfortable part, the easy part, but in the following chapters he will come to what we are accustomed to: the troubles, the difficulties. Minister, believe me, we don't need too much imagination to know what the end of this book is going to be because we always live it with you. Answer us if you can, Minister: how are you going to ensure the sustainability of the system by preventing its reform from being translated into a structural deficit of social security that is inexhaustible? The forecasts already speak of a possible growth of the deficit from 5 to 7%. Who's gonna pay for it? Will there be an increase in social security contributions? Let it be known that this is not said by the People's Party, this is even said by Minister Bolaños in his report accompanying this bill, which tells him that - abrocomas -'more detailed information would be desirable' - close quotes - than you put forward. And answer also: are you going to reform your own reform, that to prevent early retirement from being more burdensome than it is today? Minister, they don't even do it right when they try. Or tell us: how will the quote of self-employed people be? Have you already agreed? And what are you going to do with the interns? And what are you going to do about widow's pensions? And do they claim that minimum living income is the first step in the transfer of social security to the Basque Country and Navarre to counter political commitments to the detriment of the single pension fund, its equity and its solvency? This you do not answer, Minister. Why? Why are you omitting it? This project, not that the People's Party doesn't understand it, is that it doesn't understand it, not even the government you're part of. Some ministers of the blue bank are still waiting for me to explain to them what the intergenerational equity mechanism is, the opposition as well and, as I have said before, the social dialogue as well. It's not a minor issue, it's that the most important measure of your law is not in the law. As you hear, ladies and gentlemen. They reserve their star measure - intergenerational equity mechanism - to include it through the back door, through the back door via amendment. It has never been seen in the parliamentary process that a mechanism that gives sustainability to the bill is put through the back door through amendment. You, Mr Escrivá, said something to us in one of the few sincere statements we have heard from this government: either we were going to have to work longer or we were going to get less pension. Logically, he received a quick call from the Ferraz factory, from the Moncloa factory and had to rectify. He also said that pensions would have moderate adjustments. This is what you said in the press. This week you have returned to the burden, in one of those attacks of sincerity that give you from time to time, always in the media, and you said that you could raise the retirement age to 75 in what you call a cultural change. Once again, he had to go out and deny it. We already know what awaits us if these initiatives that you bring to this House are approved. You're called a social shield, but the Spaniards know they're lower pensions. As we were promised cheaper light, and today it is 221 euros megawatt - a luxury article already - with its pension policies we know that the same will happen: worse pensions, more work time and worse labour market to work for a future. You know that in a few years you start to retire the baby boom generation, no more or less than one in three of those who make up our country's activity rate. How do you plan to ensure that our current pension system is sustained if one third of our contributors retire? How are you going to square your accounts if in your bill, in your economic part - listen well - they present a project with calculations that predict inflation for 2023 of 1,3%, for 2023 of 1,69 % and for 2024 of 2%? Do you know what current inflation is, Minister? 4 %. How are you going to square the calculations, Minister? How do you want to be convincing if you rely on scenarios completely alienated from reality? Can you explain it to us, Minister? How we yearn for Mr Escrivá, when he was president of the AIReF: the methodist, the one who squared accounts, the one who really analyzed the bills. You have become a perfect convert of politics, a perfect convert of those who try to make more merits than the socialists themselves to try to defend the indefensible, Mr Escriva. [[Applauds]] Those who know have been warning them for a long time that this reform is not the reform that Social Security needs, because it makes it worse and owes it, but this is the usual policy of the house. They do not listen to the Banco de España who warns them that in order to pay this reform we should raise social contributions by 35% if we want to maintain the generosity of the system; they do not listen to the AIReF - ask nostrils! - that it warns them of a rise of several points of GDP for the new expenditure on pensions; and they do not listen to those who warn us that their reform will put us at insurmountable levels of public debt. They also listen deafly to Europe. Yes, Minister, deaf ears to Europe because they ask you to ensure with your reform the sustainability of the system and intergenerational equity, but your project is the opposite. In the face of its disastrous pension policy, the People's Party has on numerous occasions offered it its cooperation and dialogue, because we know how to do so, because we have done so and because we are thinking about our country. It should be remembered that it was the policies of the People's Party that managed to increase pensions during their years of government by 16% without renouncing sustainability; that it was the PP that revalued pensions every year, while in some years you Socialists froze them, because I will not have to remind the Socialists how their boss pressed the button of the freezing of pensions for six million pensioners in this same Parliament - Mr Sánchez froze the pensions by pressing the button in this Chamber - and that it was the PP that managed to get nine out of ten euros that will be paid in pensions out of contributions and employment. That was done by the PP who demonstrated responsibility with the pensioners, yesterday's, today's and tomorrow's. Yes, Mr. Escriva. Proof of this was the 2013 Law, a difficult law, which you repeal without offering any alternative. The same reform that the European Commission has often praised for thinking about the long term and sustainability. The same reform that allowed the European institutions not to make recommendations on pensions from 2013 until you entered the government. And I understand, Mr Escrivá, that it is not easy to try to reform the pension system at the hand of a Minister of Labour who wants to recover expired and totally overnight formulas, and that we know that her policies achieve the opposite of what they want. And that's why it makes us the country that's gonna take the longest to recover after the pandemic, that the most mass of jobs has destroyed in the developed world, that we are leaders in youth unemployment, leaders in female unemployment and leaders in gender gaps. And, Mr. Escrivá, these days you were appealing to cultural change, and you know what the Spanish think? They don't ask for a cultural change, do you know what the Spanish ask for? A change of government, Mr Escrivá, is what the Spanish ask. [[Applauds]] The Spanish want a government to think of them, their children and their grandchildren, a government to treat them as adults, Mr Escrivá. The Spanish want a responsible and courageous government, a government that dialogues to adopt reforms that improve our system. Mr Escrivá, you are talking about a reform that you believe is born of social dialogue, and you know that it is incomplete, that only seeks to deceive Europe without solving the problem. And make no mistake, what he agreed in July with the social partners was not the reform that Spain needs, it was a kick forward. That agreement only served him to get a photo in the gardens of Moncloa and save yourself from the government crisis, for nothing else serves this reform. And just two days after the photo, the social workers themselves gave him a shot of ears for his unfortunate statements, and since then they have not stopped criticizing the secrecy of his reform, because they do not know what he wants or how he wants to do it. You also tell us that your reform stems from the recommendations of the Toledo Pact. Do we remind you of your appearance in the Toledo Pact in which virtually no group supported this reform or has already been forgotten? And you also said yesterday that friendly fire is a classic, but, Your Honor, I sincerely worry if no one backs me, no friends, no enemies, no one. I conclude now, ladies and gentlemen, and I do so by saying that the People's Party will never support a reform that we know almost nothing about, a reform that only thinks of the forthcoming elections, a project that covers its eyes to the demographic and socio-economic reality of our country, and that is why we say no to this project. As Pablo Casado has already said, from the People's Party, we show our responsibility with Spain and the Spanish saying no to this reform. We are committed to a reform that guarantees balance...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-30-CD210930.u30	Your Honor, you must finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-30-CD210930.u31	... - it has concluded -, the increase of the purchasing power, the support of the system, the general economic situation and the pensions of the future. That has been, is and will always be the idea of the PP in the area of pensions and we will continue to maintain it. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-30-CD210930.u32	I give the floor to the Minister for Inclusion, Social Security and Migration. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-30-CD210930.u33	The reform of 2013, Mr Cabezón, was made without any consensus, without agreeing with the social actors, scorning all the social actors. That is why it is understood that for you now, when we agree with all the social agents - discussing even the smallest detail for months and months - and we sign it in La Moncloa, that is a photo in the gardens of La Moncloa. Because social dialogue, agreement and consensus for you are that: photos. You're portraying yourself, Mr. Cabezón, you're portraying yourself; you're portraying yourself. [[Applauds]] Well, he used the word cheating several times. But you are defending the 2013 reform and the IRP, an index you call pension revaluation, when as you know it is the pension cut-off index. The error is not revaluation, it's cutbacks, massive cuts in pensions. And that's what you're offering here today as an alternative, but you do it by confusing, cheating, without giving figures. Look at you - as you speak of the Banco de España -, I have here what the Governor of the Banco de España told you - then the Banco de España published it on its website - to all the members of the Toledo Pact when it appeared less than a year ago. He told them the following with reference to the IRP: In this case, if the CPI is located over the years close to the European Central Bank target of 2%, the loss of purchasing power of pensions would be 15% in ten years and 30% in twenty years. That's what the governor said, and he went on to say: And secondly, according to current projections of life expectancy developments, the operation of the sustainability factor would reduce the initial pension for workers who have not yet retired by about 5% in ten years and 10% in twenty years. That is, 40%. 40%! And why do they do it? Casually, I know even the thinnest guts of the IRP, because I've been evaluating it and following it in my previous work. Do you know why you did it? Because they wanted to lower taxes in 2014 so they would apply in 2015, and thus reach the 2016 elections. All that tax, corporate, etc. had to have a opposite correlation, which was to cut pensions. They do so in 2013, and with the IRP – that 40% drop in the purchasing power of pensions and cuts – they were able to justify to Europe the 2014 electoral tax cuts, which materialise in 2015. That's the IRP. Of course, they don't dare tell the pensioners. Well, the former President of the Rajoy government did say so the other day; he said: indeed, an impressive strike is going to take place, because it goes from this. He told us all. I find it really incredible that, after having supported the recommendations of the Toledo Pact, all of them - I have here their sentences of how I said it - now return to the 2013 reform. What happened, Mr. Cabezón? What happened? What has happened with all your statements - I have them here, but I will not read them - during this time and your support for the recommendations of the Toledo Pact, if you are now defending the 2013 reform, which is precisely the opposite, the reduction of pensions and marking the adjustment of pensions to the evolution of a number of parameters, which lead to a 40% reduction of pensions in a pensioner's expected life? But don't you realize that this is barbarity? This is not done by anyone in the world, it's nonsense, and you yourselves stopped applying it. You yourselves have stopped implementing this reform, you have turned back! And now they come back to this again; for the pensioners and future pensioners of Spain need to know that this is spending cut to perhaps do other things elsewhere, which we don't know about. [[Applauds]] This is what you do, and you do it opaquely, through the back door, without explaining it here, and besides, having them all distracted for months and months. Because, of course, how many times have we spoken in the Toledo Pact? How many times have your colleagues, who are here, been discussing details with you? All the details, all the recommendations, and now what? The other day in the Toledo Pact, when Mrs Gamarra replaced you, we all suddenly became perplexed when she made a speech radically contrary to what you had been saying in the Toledo Pact, we all said: but what happened, let us all reflect. What happened? This is what has happened: they have decided that pensions, too, must be subject to a burning land policy and a policy of non-consensus. Pensions, too? One more time, one more time. One more time! Once again you have taken as hostage the pensioners, their future. [[Applauds]] They have completely despised social dialogue. If we've agreed with all the social partners, with everyone, with everyone! But it doesn't matter to you, as it did to you in 2013. They don't care about everything. They don't care about everything! The only thing: we'll see what this reflects on; let's see the consistency of your system. That 40 % pension cut behind the return to 2013, what is it going to reflect on? What is it going to reflect on? I imagine what it is going to reflect on: in a more regressive fiscal policy, in a tax elimination probably for the more wealthy people, at the expense of the pensioners. At the expense of the pensioners! It can't be; really, it can't be. And what brings me here is a series of cylinders, references, numbers taken from here and there. But this is very serious! Forgive me, but this is very serious! We talked about the European Commission, and we've been talking to them for a year. Read the evaluation report of Component 30's Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan. The European Commission and all its experts and all its teams have validated this. It is that all the European institutions validate it! It's validated by the social partners! It's going to validate much of the parliamentary arc! But, please, this absolute disregard for consensus, for agreements, for rigour, for technical analysis, for transparency, is not deserved, sincerely, by the Spanish pensioners. They don't deserve it, no! [[Applauds]] Thank you, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-30-CD210930.u34	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Cabezón has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-30-CD210930.u35	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, we have become accustomed to these scarecrows lately when you come up to the rostrum to try to defend the indefensible. You speak of the Toledo Pact and it is noted that you were never in the Toledo Pact Negotiating, because we were the parliamentarians who were defending that Toledo Pact with a loyalty that you have jumped from the minute one. [[Applauds]] It did so with the gender gap complement, which never called on us to introduce that bill, and it has done so with this pension reform, which, yes, has agreed to it in social dialogue, but it did not previously pass through the Toledo Pact and was a posteriori of the agreement when it brought about that reform, jumping over the Toledo Pact once again. Because you talk a lot about agreements, because you talk a lot about the Toledo Pact, but, I repeat, you skip the Toledo Pact to the toaster, Minister. You come here today very ugano with great words, but you remind us of the worst - as I said earlier - converts of politics; you remind us a lot of Solbes. It reminds us a lot of Solbes, how we miss the AIReF Writer! That writer - I also have his statements and if you want to read them - defending the IRP and defending the sustainability factor, Minister. You were defending the IRP. You defended the sustainability factor, Minister. And now he forgets. If you have to have memory too, Mr Escrivá. I understand that you are now trying to be very disciplined with Mr Sánchez. First, the sustainability factor was not put by the People's Party. The first to put it into law was the Socialist Party, introducing a sustainability factor into pensions. Secondly, you are talking about that the sustainability factor is a cut, can you explain to me what the intergenerational equity mechanism is? Why do your government partners constantly ask you what you are going to do with the intergenerational equity mechanism? Because the mechanism of intergenerational equity is its cut, the one that does not dare to pose in the reform because, if not, it would not go ahead and not unlock even in the blue bank. That is why Mrs Yolanda Díaz is constantly arguing with you, because she is afraid of this mechanism of intergenerational equity; that is why Meri Pita and Aina, the deputies of Podemos in the Toledo Pact Commission, warned you that the mechanism of intergenerational equity would not allow it. You are being like the worst trilers presenting a mechanism of intergenerational equity that will not go forward to hold the People's Party accountable. [[The Minister for Inclusion, Social Security and Migration, Escrivá Belmonte, asks for the floor]] And we're not gonna let that happen. We've made it clear to him since minute one. In all the appearances we have made, in all of them, since the Toledo Pact, we warned you that we were not going to allow a reform in time, in pieces, that we wanted a complete reform that would give priority, above all, to the sustainability of the system for today's pensioners, for tomorrow and for tomorrow's pensioners, that for us it was essential a mechanism that was supportive, but, above all, that future generations should be aware of it, that they should be thought of and respected. And you forget it. And he forgets it all the time. You, kick forward with social dialogue to save yourself from the government crisis. That's what he did with that deal. I would remind you, if you wish, how those negotiations were in which you, in a Commission, put us to give birth to all Members of Parliament because you said that the social dialogue was very advanced and that you had permanent meetings. We showed you, even in the Commission, that it was false, that the social dialogue was up to your crown, Minister, because it was permanently deconvoked you, as you spent this week with the ERTE, by the way. When it comes to the day, with such important topics as ERTE or pensions, you don't show up, and that has happened again right now. Last week, the Bureau for Social Dialogue was deconvoked, at which the intergenerational equity mechanism was to be presented. He did not want to present it because he knew that today we are discussing the pension refund amendment; he did not want to show what would be the cut he would present in this Parliament and he did not want us to face him that his cut would be - and we will see if we are wrong - worse than the 2013 reform. Thank you very much. [[Applauds.-A honourable Member: Very well.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-30-CD210930.u36	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] I give the floor to the Minister for Inclusion, Social Security and Migration.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-30-CD210930.u37	I understand, Mr Cabezón, that you have very difficult to recognise here - and I ask you, please, courage to do so - what you are bringing to the House as a counterpoint to the reform that we have agreed with all the social partners and that you have that great consensus, which is that 40% pension cut. It wasn't just the Bank of Spain. I have here - and I will send it to you - the calculations of the International Monetary Fund, the calculations of the European Commission's Rule of Law report, and also the calculations of the Independent Tax Liability Authority. They all conclude that the application of the IRP plus the sustainability factor implies a 40% drop in purchasing power, and that pensioners, no longer able to react, when they retire with a pension of 1000 euros, will end their working life with 600 euros. That's what you're trying to hide here today, Mr. Cabezón, with all these pitching outs. Please defend what you are doing, have the courage - as Mr Rajoy has done - to say exactly what it implies, which is what we need to talk about. We know perfectly well what the reform we are discussing, it has all the detail and all the concreteness, we have discussed it bilaterally, multilaterally with all of you. We need to know what you are proposing. Please recognize what you want to do, recognize this huge cut. Sustainability factor. What are you saying? The sustainability factor defined by the People's Party means condemning young people to a huge cut in lifetime pensions. It doesn't make any sense, no one defends this. Intergenerational equity mechanism. I understand that you are not interested or will not be interested in reading the agreements with the social partners. We have agreed with the social partners on the general framework of the intergenerational equity mechanism; read it, study it, as we have sent it several times. It's a contingent mechanism, don't try to misrepresent it here. What do you mean? I'll explain. We have made a number of calculations and deployed a set of measures that we think are perfectly done, the European Commission agrees, secures sufficient pensions, revalued with the CPI, and also represents the sufficiency of the system. But the world is contingent and within five years it has passed something that can go in one direction or another. If that were so, we would establish a mechanism at that time that would take into account intergenerational equity. That's what it is: a contingent mechanism. You read it. What you're trying to tell us is that the important thing about this law is not that pensions are revalued with the CPI versus the IRP? That the important thing of this law is not - which is the substantive - the balance of social security, the separation of sources, the incorporation of 22 billion into social security, that we clarify the entire system of delayed retirement and create incentives? Isn't everything that comes in this law important? The only important thing is a secondary mechanism of final adjustment, which is contingent, and that we have to finish giving details with the social agents, which we have been talking to them for a while? And you're trying to throw us all away by focusing on that. Look, Mr. Cabezón, you're not going to sneak in. It is by no means going to focus on what is really at the heart of this reform: precisely, maintaining the purchasing power of pensions and ensuring pensions that are constantly being revalued. That is the great demand, and what you want is precisely the opposite: the IRP, the pension cut-off rate, with a fall of 40%. Have the courage to acknowledge that this is what you want. Really, have the courage to recognize him. Every time he comes here he tries to throw us away with one thing or another, but what this is about is knowing what his alternative plan is to which we have agreed among all. Cutting pensions by 40% in a pensioner's life, that's what his reform is. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-30-CD210930.u38	Thank you, Minister. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Mazón Ramos has the floor at the time of the joint parliamentary group's fixing of positions.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-30-CD210930.u39	Good morning; thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I admit that I was surprised by this amendment to the whole People's Party. We were dealing here with a matter in which consensus had been reached, we could almost say that historical, where a state pact is absolutely necessary, since pensions are something that affects millions of citizens, I would say that to all: current pensioners and future pensioners, and should not be pending every year from the Budget Act. There was also a strong consensus that the rules needed change. Times have changed a lot since 2013, everyone recognizes it and, secondly, because the current regulations were not being complied with. That is why I am surprised at the attitude of the People's Party, which should be more responsible, especially when this text has achieved a very broad support from the social partners. I recommend reading the July report of the Economic and Social Council on the preliminary draft. From my group we support the handling of the draft law, mainly because it seeks to give stability to the system and, at the same time, introduces improvements aimed at the efficiency of the system and the modernization of the administrative apparatus, which is something that the Administration in general urgently needs in Spain. In that direction is the creation of the new agency, and that is that Social Security is one of the agencies that has worked best historically in our country, but it also needs a new impetus. In the same sense, there is the separation of sources, which is a positive step, but we are not fooled either, because by passing social security expenditure on to the budget it does not eliminate them, much less, they will remain the same, but it has a functional and psychological improvement and, therefore, we give this change for good. The fundamental thing is to return to the criterion of maintaining the purchasing power of pensions, which has the whole logic of the world, since the one who enters the system no longer has the possibility of action and is fundamental to social stability. We will never be able to guarantee the future to a hundred percent, but the 2013 reform had not been fulfilled either. In addition, people do not understand the sustainability factor. The CPI is quite logical and, in addition, it is understood by everyone because it is a basic concept for all groups with low incomes, including most pensioners. There are other aspects to be discussed, of course, such as intergenerational solidarity, flexibility in the types of retirement, compatibility with other savings instruments, etc. But, for the moment, above populisms, we are with the minister, we are constructively with the general pension policy, and it would be good for the PP to join this task of consensus which has so much repeated in the previous debate, even if only for once. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-30-CD210930.u40	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Botran Pahissa has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-30-CD210930.u41	Thank you, President. We will of course not support the amendment to the whole People's Party; the counter-reform of 2013 was an infamy, but that does not make all the proposals coming from the PSOE good. It should be remembered that also in 2011 the PSOE itself made cuts in pensions, which will now be consolidated and which are even offered to us again, so neither will the Government be able to count on our support, and I will focus on this. One of the measures that would deserve our support is the increase of the minimum pension to 1080 euros, as requested by the European Social Charter which you yourself signed. However, what the Government's counter-reforms propose is to hinder or penalize early retirements, and in that we cannot agree, even less when someone has been listed for forty years, and even less when certain sectors have already earned the right to this early retirement in 2007, because they are exposed to certain substances that can degenerate into diseases, as you have mentioned, as we know that on the asbestos issue they have a commitment to do so, but it is necessary to do so. But this is not just about penalizing early retirements, but we cannot support the extension of the retirement age either, because the counter-reforms that point to the means that are brought to us are directed here. Germany is often put as an example that the retirement age is longer and that people work longer, but the fact is that those who work beyond 67, which is the retirement age in Germany, are not because they enjoy their work, as former Minister Margallo said the other day, setting themselves as an example, when he said he liked to work and that is why he had done it for longer; not, in Germany, in most cases where people work beyond sixty-seven is because they do not get their pension. For example, a job of people older than sixty-seven is not that of a Tertullian or counselor, as in the case of Margallo, is that of a taxi driver, even there are companies that offer their incorporation to pensioners with this statement to supplement their pension, and there are older people, even when they are seventy years old, driving taxis in Germany. Nor is life expectancy the same according to social classes. In Barcelona, for example, a few days ago I collected a series of data, and I observed that between neighborhoods there are differences of more than six years of life expectancy. Therefore, extending the retirement age to those who are penalised again is to the poorest sectors of the working class, who will have fewer years to enjoy their retirement and pension. In conclusion and in conclusion, you are concerned about squareting the numbers and meeting the demands of the European Union, but from a left-wing position you must guide us only four objectives: work less, work all, produce what is needed and redistribute everything. That is the real cultural change, which is also in line with an ecological crisis that is soon to intensify. All this of course goes beyond the pension system, so we cannot isolate the debate, that is, it is not that workers or contributors are missing or going to be missing, because right now there are already three and a half million people in the Spanish state who want to work and cannot, so the problems would be low wages and unemployment, and this is a problem of an economy very focused on financial and real estate speculation. If there was money for the rescue of the bank, let no one now make us believe that there will be no money for pensions. No left-wing government, in short, should face working class people in the dilemma of working longer or less.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-30-CD210930.u42	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Barandiaran Benito has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-30-CD210930.u43	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, Minister. Mr Cabezón, I tell you quite frankly, the introduction of this amendment has been a disappointment to me. I expected so much more from you, from the People's Party, because that was not the attitude you have maintained throughout the debate on the Toledo Pact, in which your contributions, your will has been another very different one. And let me tell you one thing, and it is that, in view of this amendment as a whole, I had a retro sense, back in the past, of something that should not have happened, because, apart from going to common places as obvious as it is necessary to create employment to improve the pension system, this amendment of what is exclusively - let me respectfully - is of a rabies in the face of a concrete measure, which is the repeal of the sustainability factor. This is the key to this amendment as a whole, there is no other. And this also makes less sense than ever before and is an inconsistency with the approach and attitude that you have maintained in the Toledo Pact. You know very well that the sustainability factor in the wording you currently have, which is that incorporated in the consolidated text of the General Law on Social Security after the amendment of Law 23/2013, is substantially different from that other sustainability factor that was incorporated in the Toledo Pact in 2011 and substantially different from the legal amendment that was introduced at that time, but not only in terms of content, but also in terms of attitudes, because it is not the same thing to have a legal measure that is sustained, even with a parliamentary majority, by a single political force than another that, with the same parliamentary majority, is supported by a wide range of forces, which possibly represent not the concretion of today's Parliament, but of the Parliament always, of the plural, interdisciplinary Parliament and of different points of view, which are to be concrete on any issue, but in particular that which we have all understood to be the backbone of the system of protection of society, which is of a general nature. Well, Mr Cabezón, with regard to that modification of the IRP, in view of its validity or invalidity, it happened that at one point it was delayed. It had an effective date and was postponed, precisely as a result of the amendment made in the General Budgets Act of 2018 and as a condition imposed by the Basque Group, which had always understood that this was an unfavourable measure for pensioners, a measure that should not enter into force in the terms in which it was envisaged and that it should be amended. Then, if that was not so intangible, but one that could be agreed and modified, I wonder why it should not subsequently be possible for a wide range of Members of Parliament, when we have all recognized in the debate that the Toledo Pact had effects - Minister Escriva reminded us - quite undesirable for the future of pensions. Moreover - I would remind you again - I will acknowledge that your attitude or that of Mr Camps in the debate on the Toledo Pact has been exemplary, and I thank you, I have always told you. We have all given in, we have all left hairs in the catera, but I remember perfectly how I recognized you and Mr Camps on your day too - I pointed out to you and then did - that I believed that consensus in the Toledo Pact would come at the moment when you admitted the possibility that the IRP and the sustainability factor could be reworded, and you admitted it in the debate and in the end when you adopted the recommendations of the Toledo Pact. And that was an exemplary attitude. Then why now? It really does not seem right or admissible to me, but neither does it seem to me to you, because you are a serious party that aspires to govern and, therefore, that others have the same degree of loyalty in a matter as sensitive as the pension system, as we have all shown: you, too, I, and most political forces. Having said that, little more remains for me to add. With the reform proposed in the draft law we can agree quite well, although there is some question, for example, on which I will give you the reason, Mr Cabezón, spokesman for the People's Party, and it is in that regard that it does not seem entirely appropriate for the measures to come directly from the social pact through a draft law, but rather that it is Parliament which must be the protagonist in the vertebration of any measure, and much more in that of the sustainability factor, as you have also said. There has been some time, as with the gender gap supplement, that came directly - and I criticized it at the time here in Parliament, I told the members of the Socialist Party, and so it is - and I should not have come that way. I believe that this mechanism has to be corrected, Minister, and I say this to you in all sincerity, or at least to adapt it, to say it in some way, although it is true that it cannot be prevented, either, but that dialogue in the social pact should be left worthless. It is therefore true that on this subject we believe that the People's Party is not acting properly in making this proposal out of context. There are things to be corrected that I believe could be done through partial amendments, even part of the content of this amendment can be reduced to partial amendments. In any case, I simply ask you for one thing, a change of attitude; in the rest of things too, but in the pension system in particular. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-30-CD210930.u44	Thank you so much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Muñoz Vidal has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-30-CD210930.u45	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, we are certainly debating a fundamental issue today, but at some points in this debate I felt that we were in the middle of the election campaign, and I can tell you that if I had played a dinner we would have heard some 'you froze the pensions' and others 'you do not want to revalue them', I would have won the bet. There is no doubt that what we are dealing with today with this bill is one of those problems that occupy and worry Spanish families: the pensioner, who wants to know what is going to be his living livelihood; the children of the pensioners and also the grandchildren of the pensioners, those young people who look unbelievably towards a State whose disdain makes them think that no one will take care of and take care of their pensions. Every time we bring into this House something related to pensions, the labour market and especially youth unemployment I have the feeling that we are dealing with it by putting patches and kicking forward, and today, Mr Escrivá, you have presented us with a text half-finished, an unfinished text; unfinished because you lack the nuclear part of what is pension reform, which is nothing more than about the sustainability of pensions, the sustainability of the system. Precisely what is missing, that nuclear part is what will guarantee those working today that they will get their pension and that others will also get tomorrow's pension, which is what the State has to guarantee. And that is an indefatigable debate, and there are no further delays, ladies and gentlemen. However, although we share many of the reasons that lead the People's Parliamentary Group to table this amendment, we will not support it. We will not support it because, in view of the unfinished business brought to us by the Government, the opposition intends to return the text in order to continue to postpone the debate, without an alternative text. Ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE, as I said, they do not address the fundamental issue, which is that sustainability factor. And your proposals may seem more or less right to us, but if you don't mention how pensions are going to be paid, it seems to us to be a toast to the sun. And what we cannot consent to, Minister, is that they then introduce such important nuclear issues through amendment, mocking Parliament. You know as well as I do that that is a lack of respect for the parliamentary procedures and all the groups in this House. But ladies and gentlemen of the PP, as I said to you, although we agree with some of the arguments put forward in the amendment as a whole, we do not share their way of acting. We do not share the need to wait until there is nothing left in Spain to govern or pensions to divide so that you can tackle all these reforms at once. The Spaniards can't wait for you to look like a good time to get to work. Leave the whole thing not, completely wrong, because you aspire to rule, or so you say. We know that this week you are very busy with your traveling convention, but the place to discuss the issues of the future of Spain and to talk about pensions is this Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, not the convention, saying that it will repeal everything and that nothing happens even if you get a general strike. I was saying, Minister - and you know that I appreciate you professionally, and I want to tell you that you are not alone, at least outside your government - that from my parliamentary group we have always tried to be propository. There are aspects of the legal reform that you know we share, and there are aspects that are direct recommendations of the Toledo Pact and reforms that are also committed to Brussels. Citizens appreciate that I encourage workers who voluntarily want to adjust the legal age to the retirement age, it seems to us a good first step the idea of taking certain benefits out of the Social Security box, approaching us to a model where it is the welfare state that corrects inequalities, but, said this, minister, you know what is the biggest obstacle that we have with this law, and that is that there is not that star part. We want you to tell us how you're going to ensure that the Spaniards pay their pensions. Overweight, which you often do without any blush, to tell us that you will take us out of doubt later, that you will bring it by amendment in the parliamentary process of this law, even unilaterally, by hammering the intergenerational equity mechanism, Minister, you should have started there. I recognize that in Spain and even in your Government it is difficult to talk about pensions and sensitive matters trying to get out of propaganda and demagogy, but we must all make an effort to do so. You and I know that the best factor in sustainability is the fight against youth unemployment, precarious work and bet on birth. The pension system is not alien to low wages or the absence of labour market reforms or the abandonment of family policies. I know that you know all this, but the problem is that you cannot defend the sustainability of pensions with one hand and with the other sign with Bildu the repeal of labour reform, as if that were the solution to unemployment and precariousness. We, the Spanish liberals, want a model of a country that guarantees the future of society as a whole, a model of a country that thinks of pensioners but also of young people. We cannot continue to tell the Spaniards that we take their future seriously and then Parliament offers them bumps and patches. We have to address unacceptable youth unemployment rates, we have to adjust our labour legislation to the current reality and we have to work for a just pension system. But you know what, Minister? That, with its partners, with the partners of its Government, is very difficult, if not impossible.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-30-CD210930.u46	Your Honor, you must finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-30-CD210930.u47	Therefore, I say to you that the best possible factor of sustainability is not to agree with Bildu, with Esquerra or with Podemos. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-30-CD210930.u48	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Rego Candaimil has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-30-CD210930.u49	Thank you, Mr. President. We want to make two things clear from the beginning. We do not agree with this government pension bill, but we will also not support the amendment to the whole and return of the People's Party. The BNG does not share the measures proposed by the Government, inter alia, because, far from repealing previous reforms, it consolidates the most harmful aspects of the reforms, particularly the extension of the retirement age to sixty-seven years and the increase in the period of calculation to twenty-five years, measures which led to a fall in pensions of 25%. In addition, it insists on the same direction by penalising early retirements and encouraging late retirement with public money, which, with 40% youth unemployment, seems to us to be a waste of money. Minister, you say the change is to work up to seventy-five years. I do not know at what age they expect young people to start working or what perspective they propose not to emigrate; in my country, in Galicia 300,000 people only in ten years, more than 10% of the population, and their theory of compatibility of complementarity, sincerely, is not in line with reality. They do not raise minimum pensions, as was their commitment, and Damocles' sword still remains in the so-called intergenerational equity mechanism, which would entail further pension cuts. The PP thing is very easy. All this that seems unfair to us to the workers seems too much to them.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-30-CD210930.u50	Your Honor, you must finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-30-CD210930.u51	...and keep the scissors in hand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-30-CD210930.u52	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Errejón Galván has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-30-CD210930.u53	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing and voting today on the amendment to the whole of the draft law guaranteeing the purchasing power of pensions, which is basically the People's Party arguing that pensions do not go up the same way that prices are going to rise, that is, for real purposes, the impoverishment of pensioners. How is it explained that the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party or VOX can vote against pensions raising at least what prices rise? Because of lack of empathy and because it does not affect you, because you have your future entrusted to private pension funds; only that is explained. If your future depended on public pensions, you would never vote against public pensions rising at least as high as prices. But it doesn't affect them and they lack empathy. And basically this is always the same, it's people who don't have their future entrusted to public pensions by voting in favour of the cut in public pensions; people who don't know public health or education, don't value it and don't need it, voting in favour of cuts in public health and education; people who charge ten times more than the minimum wage by voting against the rise in the interprofessional minimum wage. Exactly, something like the policy of the funnel: to prescribe to the Spaniards just the opposite of what you would want for yourself and your families. Mr Escrivá, the government has to stop throwing probe balloons, all of which are always in the same direction. It is true that there are a few privileged professions, in which perhaps continuing to work until the seventy-seven, seventy-five years is a privilege, but it is such a small number that it should not occupy the public debate. The government has to stop launching probe balloons and deal - you know - with the structural issue. The pension system has a problem of income, not expenditure. The minimum wage for a young person in Spain today is 973 euros and the average pension for a baby boom that is retired today is 1500 euros. That is the fundamental gap, which makes the pension system in Spain difficult to sustain, and before that there are basically two recipes. There is the recipe of the People's Party - they don't say it, but it's quite clear - that we have to cut pensions, and there is the other recipe, that of increasing the income of the public pension system, and that goes through the war of precariousness, by guaranteeing quality employment for young people, because the discussion of pensions is not a discussion of older people, it is a discussion of a country model and an intergenerational pact...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-30-CD210930.u54	Your Honor, you must finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-30-CD210930.u55	...between those who deserve a break and those who deserve a chance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-30-CD210930.u56	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Boadella Esteve has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-30-CD210930.u57	Good morning again, Mr. President. Minister, in the previous speech I mentioned Ramón Trias Fargas on disability issues and, of course, in this intervention on pensions I will quote Carles Campuzano, who, as you know, is a teacher for us in this matter, and therefore with explicit thanks and for the work he has done during all these years on pensions. From this trajectory that you mentioned earlier about having approved the Toledo Pact, I believe that the foundations of what the new pension system has to be have been approved by all of us, also with the PP. And on those grounds of the Toledo Pact it was said that pensions increased with the CPI, that the real age was adjusted to the legal retirement age and that there was a need to deepen the separation of sources. I therefore believe that we know everything about the framework we have set ourselves. It is also true, however, and as I mentioned in the timely Commission, that we are surprised that the project is going through phases, not the whole. We would like this to be a clear, definitive reform, and not with bundled deliveries. We have already commented many times on this issue with regard to ERTs, because of these time-term renewals, and perhaps it would be much better to address structural solutions. But the project has also been accompanied - and you know it, Minister - by controversies, such as that of the baby boom or recently that of the retirement age. In PeCAT, as far as the retirement age is concerned, we are quite clear: those who want to continue working must be encouraged - that is so - but those who no longer want or cannot do so cannot be penalised either. Therefore, under these premises is how we approach the issue of retirement age. But it is necessary to start the way. Mr Cabezón pointed out before that the minister is alone, but, looking at the previous speeches, what turns out to be alone is the People's Party. So the question to the Group of the European People's Party with this amendment is: What is your proposal? Because the amendment is a return, the amendment does not bring new content, it only involves the return and continues in this uncertainty on this whole issue. That is why we consider it necessary to start working. We want to enrich the text on issues such as the retirement age, the broad burden of contributions, disability and pension issues, autonomous issues, issues that are stuck, such as public pension plans - the Budget Act modified the contributions of private plans in relation to annual contributions - or the deduction. If public pension schemes are not put in place, this will lead to a totally ineffective situation and, therefore, we urge the Government, we urge the House to work on the whole, not just the part. If we have to do the part, we will do the first part and the second part later, but we do not understand this amendment to the whole of the People's Party, because it is due more to a change of strategy than to a change of substance in this matter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-30-CD210930.u58	Thank you so much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Salvador i Duch has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-30-CD210930.u59	Good morning, President; good morning, Minister; good morning to everyone. On the law, we will speak in the form of amendments, as we have done in particular votes, and you already know our discrepancies and also know what we value as positive in your law. But today I am going to focus, above all, on the amendment to the whole and some important things that I think we should all be clear about. Ladies and gentlemen of the PP and the Socialist Party too, the economic problem of the Spanish State is not retirement pensions. What condemns the pension system is what you have not addressed for more than ten years, so as not to go further, and you know it, Mr Escriva: the high structural unemployment of millions of people - that does affect - the high unemployment in all age groups - that does affect, especially older workers - and that of young people, in record unemployment in Europe - that does affect - and the precariousness of work - that does affect, because it is precarious of the future of pensions - and the gender gap and low wages and the extension of the submerged economy and the great fraud to Social Security, without crossing data between Finance and Social Security, and the non-regularization of immigrants, so necessary, and the exponential deindustrialisation of the whole State. These are the real problems of people and the pension system. And this is the heritage of the governments led by the People's Party and led by the Socialist Party, so don't applaud, because you are accomplices to what's going on. Having said that, leave the pension system alone and focus on what is important. Gentlemen of the PP and gentlemen of the PSOE, this is not about unfair patches, this will not be resolved by extending working life by obligation, Mr Escriva, nor by cutting pensions, as some claim. But let no one make a mistake - I want it to be clear, and above all, the Ministry of Finance told me to take the message -, Esquerra Republicana did not vote in favour of the recommendations of the Toledo Pact, we are not bound by this consensus and we are not here to legislate pension cuts in any form, including penalties for early retirements of people who have no alternative but to pre-retirement or live from social assistance or leave their health in it. Obviously, we valued the CPI and everything expressed, but we said that we would deal with this later. And the truth is that his law is only a first phase of the pension law, which made us think for a moment about returning it, because really this by giving it for fascicles, without addressing the problem in a global way, we don't like it as a way to work. But let us go to the gentlemen of the PP and to their amendment as a whole. Gentlemen of the PP, you don't get used to telling the truth, but you don't care. They like their pseudo social security experts, on the salary of the financial system, have been failing for decades in their hopes of bankruptcy of the pension system; they do not agree with one. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, with pensions of about 60% of the minimum wage and contributions of about a third, it is enough for two people to work to cope with a retirement pension. If between sixteen and sixty-seven years of age we don't get two people to work to pay for this, something fails, and it's not the pension system. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, with twenty-five years of contributions and a minimum annual return of 2% would cover the fifteen years separating retirement age and life expectancy. But the problem is not, as you say, that today retirees live more - as if this were a problem - or that the generation of the baby boom is coming and you will not be able to pay the pensions, as it also threatens you - sometimes, Minister, you seem to be going there -; the problem, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party and also of the PSOE, is that you have plundered the single pension fund for decades, that is the real problem. The single box of the pension system has been the milk cow for the State and its governments, thanks to which much of the welfare State has been financed. You know that: employment, birth promotion, public health and heritage policies, etc. With our deferred salary, with our indirect salary, which is both employee and self-employed contributions, budget items have been paid that should never have been paid by the Single Social Security Fund. Without going further, up to more than twenty billion a year, as you have said, and in this you have put a quota. In what has not been quoted and we miss it, so we are going to propose it in the form of an amendment, especially for the Ministry of Finance, it is, for example, in that the nothing suspicious for you Court of Auditors - for you nothing suspicious, for us yes - figures and demands a replacement of more than one hundred and three billion euros, unlawfully looted to pay the so-called improper expenses; one hundred and three billion euros, and nobody says anything about this. Mr. Cabezón, it's okay with this, isn't it? They don't take anyone's property here, they're not independenceists. We want to know what's going to be done. We want a replacement, because you know that according to rigorous sources the surplus of Social Security in the last forty years exceeds half a billion euros. We don't say we get there anymore, but we'd like it to be recognized. We would also like to see an audit of Social Security, so that people know that the working class has paid much of the welfare state. The State is in debt to this working class, to which it has to return its money and not cut its pensions. We are going to work and propose amendments to that effect, because we do not want to let this time pass. [[Applauds]] You talk about the over 100,000 million that Social Security owes to the state, and that's not true, you know that. Article 109 of the General Social Security Act, which required transfers and not loans or credits, had not been complied with. Now we'll see if they take us out and, above all, they owe us. We want this to come out, and we want it to be resolved. As I said, we workers have been paying for decades everything that the State Treasury had to pay and could not pay; and it could not pay for political will and insufficient fiscal pressure on high incomes and very low fiscal pressure on capital. That's the problem with pensions. How was that money supplied? As you said, when they were lowering pensions at the same time they plundered the Social Security box and hid the state's debt and passed the debt on to the workers. It is true that in the future there will be more retirees or retirees, but it is not the only relevant data. It is false the story of the sustainability of the pension system used by the PSOE and the People's Party, and it has a very interested objective that does not come out here, but it seems to me that it is behind - when we talk about supplementary and private pensions that will surely come out that issue -. And it's that you create a fake mantra or fake news that the system is unsustainable - it's not; the cause of untenability, if there were, would be elsewhere - so people think: oysters, I have to make a private pension plan, I won't get there, they won't be able to collect pensions...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-30-CD210930.u60	Your time is up, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-30-CD210930.u61	Too bad, because it's a very important issue. I say again that seven minutes is not enough time. To talk about a topic that moves a budget of more than 15 billion euros it takes a lot more time. I said it in my private vows...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-30-CD210930.u62	Your Honor, finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-30-CD210930.u63	...and I was dispatched in seven minutes. But I'll say it again now. I think that retirees need a much broader and more serious debate and that we need to know everyone's positions. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-30-CD210930.u64	For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, I have the floor, Mrs Franco Carmona. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceed to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-30-CD210930.u65	Thank you, President. Mr Cabezón, you come here doing a lot of terrible things, but we do not miss the fact that with your amendment you have denied the greatest, the revaluation of pensions. That's what you've denied. I am not surprised that you continue to defend the Rajoy reform of 2013, the unprecedented hacking of the purchasing capacity of our pensioners, imposing the damned sustainability factor that impoverishes future pensioners and the damned revaluation rate at 0.25 % that impoverishes the current ones. The one that crushed the hopes of our pensioners. That is how you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, paid our pensioners or retirees all the efforts you have made to build a democratic country with rights and to bear with your pensions the burden of the 2008 crisis, of your real estate bubble, supporting your children, your daughters, your grandchildren, your grandchildren and entire families who fell into unemployment thanks to their policies. [[Applauds]] The truth is, you don't defend our pensioners. You defend the banks and pension funds, the vultures of our elders' money. All you're trying to do is get rid of the pension right to turn it into a business. The only thing you see in the pensions is a huge possibility of making cash. Ladies and gentlemen of the PP, you are the main force of the opposition and I hoped that at least you would have made the numbers. But I'll give it to you. In the year of their pension reform the majority unions warned that the cut they were imposing from the government of Mariano Rajoy would mean for our pensioners a loss of purchasing power of between 14.8% and 28.3% in the following fifteen years. Even the International Monetary Fund, which is not suspicious of being a body that makes proposals from the left, drew up a report in which it estimated a 30 % loss of purchasing power to our pensioners in the next 20 years. With your proposal, you got our retirees and our retirees to lose in the last year - only in the last year - EUR 420. That is something that, thanks to this new law, will never happen again. Thanks to the insistence of the United Nations We can, it has been achieved that pensions are revalued at the same level as price increases and that this is re-guaranteed by law to ensure their purchasing capacity. There is a question of an enormous cruelty that is happening today. Do you know how much the pensioners would have been impoverished with the huge and unprecedented increase - well, with a precedent of more than ten years - of the 4% of the CPI we have right now? Do you know how impoverished they would have been? All this has been thanks to the artificial rise of the light of the four main electrics, to which you sold Endesa - the public Endesa, which is now private - and also for their participation in the boards of directors. Do the math. Make the accounts of how much they would have lost with this increase of up to 4% of the CPI thanks to their policies. Do the math. They are not going to lose that purchasing power today because pensions are guaranteed and indexed to the CPI; they are not going to lose a single euro. Thanks to the fact that UN Podemos is in government, in this pension law we have ended the reform of 2013 of the People's Party, with the revaluation, as I said before, of 0.25 % and with the sustainability factor; the separation of sources has been achieved, which is going to ensure the viability of the system, eliminating inappropriate costs; the modification of the self-employed system has been agreed, so that they can contribute according to their real income, and the equality of de facto couples to marriages in access to widowhood pensions has been achieved. But we know that everything is not yet won and that we have to keep fighting. Therefore, the improvement of minimum and non-contributory pensions is one of our main battle horses in the agreement of the General Budgets of the State, because we know that with 600 euros you cannot live. That is why we are fighting and we hope that the Minister of Social Security and his party, the Socialist Party, will agree with us, with his partner in government, and with courage the rise and improvement of minimum and non-contributory pensions. A warning. The votes of Unita Podemos and our participation in the Government will neither serve nor ever serve to raise the retirement age nor to impoverish current or future pensions. We have shown this by closing the debate on the increase in computing time to thirty-five years. He's not going to move on. [[Applauds]] Another warning. The greatest cuts in the history of our democracy have been justified in the name of technocracy. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not know whether Minister Escrivá is a politician or a technician, but what I do know is that he is a minister and that the dignity of our pensioners is a political issue. On the proposal for cultural change and to retire at seventy-seven or seventy-five years, I must say that I am deeply pleased that you have denied these statements. We make sure that being United We can in the government this is never going to happen. We also do not know what it means by the intergenerational equity mechanism, because it has not yet been translated into any proposal, but what we do know is that it will not translate into a single euro of pension cuts for our young people. This is not a technical problem, it's not a birth problem and it's not a baby boom problem either. What needs to be done is to increase wages, guarantee quality jobs for our young people and for our current and future workers. That is the greatest guarantee of our pension system. And if all of this has been achieved thanks to the struggle of our pensioners and our pensioners on the street, because we know that rights are not won if they are not won on the street.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-30-CD210930.u66	Your Honor, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-30-CD210930.u67	Yeah. I'm done. In Unity We know which side we are and will always defend the dignity of our pensioners. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-30-CD210930.u68	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Sáez Alonso-Muñumer has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-30-CD210930.u69	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, amendment to the whole People's Party of the bill which does not guarantee the purchasing power of pensions and does not strengthen the sustainability of the system. The consensus between the PP and the PSOE was broken, with parties that no more than a year ago voted in favour of the report on the evaluation and reform of the Toledo Pact. This report, as already indicated by the VOX Parliamentary Group, was, firstly, a deception to the Spaniards; secondly, it offered no guarantee of pension sustainability, and, thirdly, it legitimized the Government to continue to strain a system, forgetting the reality of public accounts. You, gentlemen of the PP, signed it and accepted it. It draws attention to the fact that the PP speaks in this amendment of time-bound reforms, when the sustainability factor approved in 2013 was to enter into force before January 2023. Let us begin to evaluate the bill. A premise. Pensions are guaranteed only if there is money to pay them, not because the State Gazette says so. [[Applauds]] Let us remember that in Greece pensions were cut and their laws said they were guaranteed. We must ask ourselves: is there money to pay them? First reality. There is no such thing as social security contributions. This is not the case in 2021, where the expected income from social contributions is EUR 17,901 million lower than the expenditure on contributory pensions, including the minimum supplement. Nor will quotas be sufficient in the year 2022, in which extraordinary expenditure with a double origin will be recorded. The first is the impact of the compensatory pay in February as a result of higher inflation. The annual CPI is set at 4% - we will see where it is in November - compared to a revaluation of 0.9 % of contributory pensions and 1.8 % of non-contributory pensions. The second is that of the effect of the revaluation of pensions in 2022 on the basis of the average inflation this year, which will be at levels close to 3%. Between the two of us we are talking about an additional expenditure that could exceed EUR 6 billion. But this additional expenditure will also have consequences in years after it has multiplied over time as a result of its consolidation. Second reality. Transferring the social security deficit to the central administration does not fix anything. We remember again that there is only one box. Let us remember that the Social Security budget for the year 2021 includes transfers of more than EUR 31 100 million. And we wonder: where does the money come from the transfers? Of course, it does not come out of heaven, but from the taxes that we all pay. This implies that retired people are taxing part of their own pensions and that, regardless of the revaluation that applies, any rise in the tax burden means a reduction in their disposable income. Let us remember that only VOX carries in its programme the exemption from pension taxation in the IRP. Third reality. Public accounts are in alarming red numbers. Brussels estimates that the structural deficit in Spain's public accounts for the year 2022 will be 5.2% of GDP. For its part, the public debt in Spain in June amounted to EUR 1.42 billion, representing 122,1 % of GDP, well above the target of 119,5 % set out in the Stability Plan. Finally, a structural deficit and an open debt that prevent ensuring that the current level of transfers and, at the same time, expenditure on education, health and social assistance can be maintained in the future. It is a bill that guarantees nothing and has important silences, including the silence on policies that promote birth, an issue that we consider essential in VOX, and it is also essential to increase support for families, which in Spain are among the lowest in the European Union. Silence on measures to create jobs and strengthen the system's income, which is surprising in view of the unemployment rate in Spain, which amounts to 15.6% of the working population. Silence on proposals for young people, who are asked to commit intergenerationally while the youth unemployment rate is 38.4%. Silence on contributions from self-employed persons or on the strengthening of supplementary pension systems, matters which the Government postpones to a second reform. Silence on the design of the intergenerational equity mechanism; it is incomprehensible that the sustainability factor should be repealed and the mechanism that will replace it should not be proposed. Silences are important, especially when we are before a government and a Socialist Party with a major lack of credibility. There is a lack of credibility in a Government that talks about supporting women but has reduced pensions to women with three or more children. [[Applauds]] Lack of credibility with a PSOE that in 2011 froze pensions to more than six million Spaniards and cut the salary of public employees by 5%. In front of the party without credibility is VOX's commitment to ensure the sustainability of the pension system. To do this, we have to choose between spending for the Spanish or spending for the politicians. In VOX we propose to undertake a profound reduction in public expenditure, political expenditure, the elimination of duplication and the simplification of the excessive structure of the autonomous state.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-30-CD210930.u70	Your Honor, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-30-CD210930.u71	I'm finishing up, Mr. President. They are measures that do not understand those who do not want or who do not know because they have never worked in private enterprise, have never carried out an analysis of expenses and have never squared a budget. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Group, on the floor]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-30-CD210930.u72	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Perea i Conillas has the floor for the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-30-CD210930.u73	Hello. Good morning. It's good to be back here, in addition to defending a pension law that will project security and tranquillity to millions of people. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, we strongly oppose your amendment to the whole of a law aimed at guaranteeing the purchasing power of pensions and strengthening the sustainability of the system. We oppose each other objectively, rigorously and, above all, honestly with millions of people. Let us begin to disprove the reasons put forward by the People's Group for presenting this whole amendment. By the way, it is a law that is accompanied by the agreement of the Toledo Pact and by social dialogue. The search for consensus - I take the Minister's words - makes the agreements stronger and more durable. Let's take it apart. Let's start with the first - I open quotes -: 'Retired people live more and more as a result of increased life expectancy'. Well, according to a recent report by the University of Oxford, the pandemic has severely hit longevity, especially in Spain. In a single year, longevity has been reduced by six months. Gentlemen of the People's Party, you have sacrificed life expectancy, with a 2013 sustainability factor as an excuse to cut back on pensions. And these thick-track policies that were carried out in 2012 are no longer being carried. Your drastic neo-liberal cutbacks from the Rajoy government have been fulmated by the social shield, and you have yet to find out. [[The lady]] I believe that citizens will be wondering what would have happened if the measures of the social shield had not been deployed in these months, this year and a half. Where would citizenship be? During the pandemic, this government has shown that a radically different response can be given than you did with the 2012 labour reform and the 2013 pension reform, which brought precariousness and the highest rates of inequality, despite Mr. Rajoy's beatings saying that it was the highest economic growth since 2014. Well, it also gave rise to the greatest degree of inequality. Second reason. According to you, the PP took responsible steps to ensure the welfare model. False. Your reform of 2013 violates article 50 of the Constitution - for you already the violation of the Constitution goes de sei; we have seen it day by day - meant a reduction in pensions in real terms from 30 to 40% in 20 years. Its reform generated great uncertainty, discomfort and uneasiness. It caused early dojo retirements, as the Catalans would say. But the greatest uneasiness and uneasiness it produced was that of Rajoy's own government, which put it in a drawer and made it a total amendment with the 2018 budgets. [[Applauds]] Which, ladies and gentlemen, you're missing the shot. Gentlemen of the People's Party, its reform has mud feet and lacked political and social legitimacy, essential elements for viability. Third reason. They say that the law forgets young people and repeals the 2013 sustainability factor that guarantees a future pension without proposing a mechanism to replace it. Look, if at this point they have not understood that their sustainability factor does not guarantee decent pensions and the stability of the system is that they have not understood anything. We have told them that this law puts black on white that the State is the guarantor of the public pension system, and not of any public pension system, not a school system, but a system with guaranteed and sustainable pensions. Gentlemen of the People's Party, stop creating fear and uncertainty, do not look for subterfuges or cheap excuses not to face a reality, because this pension reform is solvent and, moreover, will follow its processing, I am convinced. The social agreement is in this, and this Government has shown it well in this year and a half of a severe pandemic, where you were neither in nor expected. Fourth reason. The 2013 law developed the sustainability factor raised in the Toledo Pact and Law 27/2011. False. You lie. Law 27/2011 announced a sustainability factor that had to design the social dialogue, which you mocked, as you did with the Toledo Pact. Mr. Spokesman of the People's Party, you laughed at the Toledo Pact, and we know it because, moreover, it is on the record, not that I invent it. His committee of experts, made to the finger by Mr Rajoy, what he intended, and the minister said, was to justify a reduction in expenditure to justify a reduction in taxes. I would propose that the particular vote be read, which says that this 2013 reform is unsustainable socially, politically and economically. Be rigorous and read it. Now comes the fifth, which is of trachea. They say they agree with the revaluation of pensions according to the CPI, but they also say - I open quotes - 'we would like it to be as much as possible'. What do you mean as much as possible? That it goes up more than inflation or that inflation goes up? This amendment shows a lack of improper rigour on your part, and more than one spokesman has said so. They say that it is an amendment that, in turn, requires responsible action - listen to me, because it is fat - and establish mechanisms for adapting to macroeconomic variations that must take into account circumstances such as life expectancy. What? Does the index that guarantees purchasing power have to take into account life expectancy? Savage sovereign. Friday. And without having enough of these misconceptions, they say that the People's Party government never intended to freeze pensions. I will show you very clearly, in positive it was the socialist governments that raised the minimums, to the SOVI, to all, that gained purchasing power, and you, thanks to your 0.25, frozen it. [[shows a document]] You've frozen - I'm finishing - with that 0.25 present and future pensions. They lost the purchasing power of the pensioners. They generated a historical deficit of 18 billion euros. The backup's been cleaned. [[Applauds]] End of appointment, Mr. Spokesman. The corporal. As some spokesman has said and the minister has said, this amendment to the whole does not go against the government, it goes against the pensioners of today and the future, it goes against those of thirty, forty, fifty years, it goes against the baby boomers too, it goes against them this amendment. The Socialist Party is certainly not going to allow it. We'll vote against it. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-30-CD210930.u74	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] - PROPOSAL FOR THE ORGANIZATIONAL LAW FOR THE REFORM OF ORGANIZATIONAL LAW 10/1995 OF 23 NOVEMBER, OF THE CRIMINAL CODE FOR THE PROTECTION OF FREEDOM OF EXPRESSION. [[File number 122/000124]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-30-CD210930.u75	We continue with the debate on the proposal for an organic law to reform Organic Law 10/1995 of 23 November of the Criminal Code for the protection of freedom of expression. An amendment to the entire alternative text has been submitted to this bill. In defence of the amendment tabled, Mr Rojas García has the floor of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-30-CD210930.u76	Very good afternoon now, ladies and gentlemen. It is an honour for me to be in this rostrum presenting the amendment to the entire refund with an alternative text to the proposal for a law of the May Group. We do so because what we are trying to do is far from the title of your proposal. [[The Lord]] With this proposal for a law, freedom of expression cannot be extended, but the opposite is true. They intend to abolish provisions of the Criminal Code that they do is to strengthen freedom of expression because they isolate it from any element of hatred, humiliation or abject apologies. Therefore, such precepts should continue to remain in the Criminal Code and continue to function as necessary legal assets, protection of such assets, in order to have a right of freedom of expression of the tenor of which is contained in our Constitution and consistent with the international conventions that have been signed by Spain. This is made clear by our amendment to the whole, which also has an alternative text which maintains articles 490, 491, 504, 525 and 543 of the Criminal Code as they stand, and which is punishable by article 578 to send, ladies and gentlemen, the clear message that we are not going to admit acts of advocacy of terrorism, such as the one intended to do to the terrorist Henri Parot. [[Applauds]] Believe me, ladies and gentlemen, this is a diaphanous message. Anyone who seeks to humiliate the victims of terrorism is going to find the law without hesitation and without whitening of any kind and with a penalty that will make the person who exalts terrorism pay for this damage caused to innocent people who have suffered for defending our freedom, all our freedom, also, ladies and gentlemen, our freedom of expression. After the calvary that has passed these thousands of families in our country is the least they expect of us and we have to rise to it. That is what the People's Party is thinking firmly and has always done. Ladies and gentlemen, the question we ask ourselves when we start this debate is why it asks that we delete these articles from the Criminal Code. Is it to strengthen freedom of expression? I don't think so, ladies and gentlemen, and you know it, ladies and gentlemen of Podemos. I am firmly convinced that what Podemos intends with this bill is to guarantee impunity for those who want to advocate terrorism, because this from Podemos is seen as a kind of right, because it does not look bad from this political formation, it is thought that the Penal Code should not protect the honour and memory of the victims. Obviously, we believe that this position of Podemos is absolutely unacceptable, and once again we do not understand how the Socialist Party supports these kinds of initiatives of Podemos for the mere fact of remaining in power. Article 578 of the Criminal Code which seeks to suppress We can refer to the crimes of terrorism and punishes the public for justifying these deplorable crimes and also for giving them a provocative dimension by sending a message to society that these crimes are unpunished or valuable. Do you really believe that these kinds of acts, as you propose, can be left without criminal charges, with what the victims of terrorism have suffered and we have suffered from all the Spanish society? This cannot be the case, ladies and gentlemen, even the penalty must be higher, as we have proposed in this alternative text, for respect for the victims. The precept is intended to protect a very specific legal good, victims of the crimes of terrorism and their families, and depending on the seriousness of the conduct and the harm caused by it the penalty may be greater. We also want to abolish article 490.3 and 491, 504, 525 and 543 of the Criminal Code, trying to achieve impunity for all those who want to attack the national symbols, the symbols of the autonomous communities and our institutions: the Army, the State Security Forces and Bodies, the Police, the Judiciary... Ladies and gentlemen, believe me, this is a very bad message to society, which seems unacceptable and dangerous to our coexistence. Impunity is not worth for those who burn the national flag. The national flag is respected, as is respected in all the democracies of the world. Therefore, burning the national flag is not freedom of expression, as you claim. To insult the head of state is not freedom of expression, as you claim. Threatening or coercing State institutions, even preventing them from meeting in their institutional activity, is not freedom of expression, neither here nor anywhere in the world, ladies and gentlemen. Making a mockery of religious freedom is not, ladies and gentlemen of Podemos, freedom of expression. Humiliating the victims by exalting the executioners is not freedom of expression. They are all crimes and must continue to be held criminally responsible. Our position is very firm in the People's Group, and so we thought it was the position of the Socialist Party, but this socialism is unrecognizable. Everything is in positive law and in jurisprudence. Ladies and gentlemen, our Constitution ensures that in Spain we can live together in freedom and equality with people who have opposing political opinions and ideological convictions, which are completely contrary, provided that the rights and freedoms of others are respected and developed within the established constitutional framework. Article 20 of the Constitution recognizes the fundamental rights to freedom of expression. Similarly, in its paragraph 4, this Article 20 of our Constitution adds the following: 'These freedoms have their limit in respect of the rights recognized in this Title'. The structure of the precept reports on what constitutional jurisprudence has established for interpretative purposes in numerous judgments. There are no unlimited rights, ladies and gentlemen. Therefore, the doctrine of the Constitutional Court has established limits on the right to freedom of expression, which are necessary and essential, which must be respected by all and which, if transferred, deserve the corresponding reproach, including a criminal charge if necessary. Precisely in order to prevent the free expression of ideas from affecting or violating the rights of others, the Constitutional Court introduces the necessary application of weighting to the rights that are in collision. The weighting requires assessing on a case-by-case basis, considering, together with the subjective and objective relevance of what has been expressed, the allocation of colliding rights to determine whether the exercise of freedom of expression is legitimate or not. And if you do not, the punitive law will determine the consequences of such a violation, corresponding to the judges and courts, including the Constitutional Court itself through the remedy of amparo, assess and consider whether there has been a violation of other rights in the exercise of the right to freedom of expression. In practice, ladies and gentlemen, the exercise of freedom of expression often comes into collision, as you know, with the rights to honour, to privacy, to the image itself; limits expressly recognized in our constitutional text. Similarly, under its protection, they often violate ideological, religious and religious freedom, some of the rights most closely linked to the free development of personality, guaranteed, as you know, in article 16 of the Constitution. Under an alleged protection of freedom of expression, crimes against the honour, privacy and self-image of persons are often committed; slander or insult to the king or members of the royal family; serious insults to constitutional bodies, the Armed Forces or the State Security Forces and Bodies; hate crimes against a person for belonging to a particular political option. And we are seeing it with our colleagues from the Basque Country and Catalonia, without you, unfortunately, putting on any tweets or being in solidarity with this political formation, but this is what we have. There is also a collision when such crimes refer to the presence of persons freely in a particular group that includes the promotion or incitement to hatred or violence against certain groups. This happens and is happening in our society. There is also a major collision when, under a purported right to freedom of expression, very serious crimes such as genocide - fascist genocide or, also, communist genocide - are denied or banalized; humiliation of the victims of terrorism; justification or encouragement of hate crimes against a group; the offence of offending religious feelings or mocking and insulting their dogmas, beliefs or ceremonies; or the exaltation and justification of terrorism, on which we have just spoken in depth. Ladies and gentlemen, constitutional jurisprudence has distorted these criteria to be met when there is a collision of rights with freedom of expression. The Constitutional Court's decision 192/2020 of 17 December 2020 decided on an amparo appeal against a Supreme Court ruling, confirming a decision of the Girona Provincial Court, condemning the appellant as an author of an offence against religious sentiments. That is to say, this is very much audited by the Supreme Court or the Constitutional Court; we are not saying anything here that you do not know, ladies and gentlemen. Another example. The Constitutional Court confirmed the criminal conviction and concluded that there was no lawful exercise of freedom of expression, entailing the sacrifice of the religious freedom of third parties in its external dimension, which should prevail in the manner, time and place in which this protest was made, since when a group of faithful celebrates a religious act in a church, it cannot be considered that the ceremony is open to an exchange of ideas. Ladies and gentlemen, it is what is called respect, it is what is called about public order, which is obviously within that right to freedom of expression. And one more example. The Constitutional Court's decision 190/2020 of 15 December 2020 decided an appeal against an appeal that confirmed the sentence for insulting the Spanish flag. The judgment recalled that similar criminal charges exist in other Member States of the European Union such as Germany, France and Italy. Spain does not invent anything when it incorporates these precepts and legal assets protected also in the Penal Code. Well, in this case, the court considers that it acted in a spirit of outrage to the flag, with publicity, with unnecessary expressions that generated an intense sense of humiliation at the time of the highest military solemnity of the flag's rise with the formed guard and the national anthem. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen of Podemos, whether you like the national flag or not is to be respected, the national symbols are to be respected, the Constitution is to be complied with and the law is to abide by it and to be complied with. And that is what the People's Party has been defending, very simple: we defend our rule of law and we will be defending our freedom of expression. Ladies and gentlemen, as I say, we do not agree with the precepts that you want to change that are set out in the Penal Code. As can be seen from the above-mentioned explanatory statement of the Criminal Code, the 1995 legislator drafted all the criminal types contained in this rule with particular measure and with particular emphasis on the protection of fundamental rights. We therefore advocate our amendment to the whole with an alternative text of that amendment to Article 578 precisely in order to protect and strengthen freedom of expression. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-30-CD210930.u77	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] He has requested the use of the turn against the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal. That is why I have the floor, on behalf of that group, Mr Santiago Romero.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-30-CD210930.u78	With your coming, President. Freedom of expression is obviously a fundamental right recognized by every human being in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, the European Convention and the Constitution, of course. In Spain we have become accustomed to reprisals and condemnations of citizens for the exercise of freedom of expression, whether in their artistic, satirical or merely opinion. This is a democratic anomaly resulting from the reform of the Penal Code carried out by the People's Party in 2015 that our bill seeks to repeal. Firstly, to restore the principle of legality and, secondly, to restore legal certainty, which were annihilated by that law. The People's Party should not distrust the exercise by citizens of rights and freedoms, unless they consider that public freedoms threaten their privileges. The amendment to the whole of the People's Group is simple to explain. It proposes the elimination of the whole of the proposal made by this group, maintaining the criminalization of freedom of expression and tightening the penalties for the crime of exaltation: more imprisonment, more fines and more repression of freedom of expression. In democracy there can be no offence to conduct that has no purpose other than comedy or that is a matter of criticism. They may become unpleasant, rude or hurtful, but the obligation of democracy to apply the principle of minimal intervention of criminal law cannot be overturned. There are other legal avenues for resolving conflicts outside criminal law: civil remedies to defend the right to honour, privacy or the right to rectification, for example. For this reason, crimes that do not guarantee freedom of expression must be removed from the Criminal Code. And the European Court of Human Rights repeatedly condemns Spain for maintaining crimes such as outrage against Spain, or the Council of Europe, which reminds us of the difficult democratic fit, for example, of insults to the king. We oppose the amendment to the whole of the People's Party because citizens cannot be condemned for exercising freedom of expression, and we need to put an end to outdated penal rules that are not in conformity with the Spanish Constitution or with a rule of law in general. It is also necessary to put an end to imprecise criminal types, such as the case of the crime of heightening terrorism, whose ambiguity has allowed for erratic application, generating high legal uncertainty that challenges even the principle of legality in criminal matters, which, as you will know, requires precision in describing criminalized conduct. With regard to the crime against religious sentiments, since it came into force in 1995, no one had sat on the bench until 2012. The late singer-songwriter Javier Krahe, for a 1977 video, was taken to a judicial calvary that lasted nine years and ended his acquittal. The decision of the Provincial Court has already stated that - it said literally - 'The images issued and the manifestations accompanying them have an undoubted satirical, critical and provocative sense. This is not enough to give them criminal relevance...'. Until 2020, twenty-five years in force, there have been about twenty cases of implementation of Article 525; there was only one conviction. They will recall the cases of 'the procession of the insumiso pussy', actor Willy Toledo, humorist Dani Mateo, or even a lawsuit against Netflix for issuing a commercial film; all acquitted or dismissed. The norm has become a propaganda and media weapon of Catholic fundamentalism, which uses it in law fraud to grab media attention and coerce artists or comics with long procedures and expenses for them, but also for the Administration of Justice. The procedures are never initiated by complaints from the Catholic Church or its organs, never, but by ultra-Catholic associations, more papist than the Pope, worth the expression. The writing of the article makes it impossible to apply it because of the subjectivity of the type: offending, scorning, vexing. A democracy, of course, must protect the exercise of religious freedom, but that is not equivalent to punishing criticism or even offending another religion. Understanding that criticism or offending an amerit religion punishment is usually the self-justification of religious fundamentalists to commit crimes. The derogation does not leave unprotected the freedom of worship, which is protected in other articles, such as the discriminatory offence, referred to in article 510 of the Criminal Code, which expressly provides for the provocation of hatred against any religion. With regard to the offenses of insulting the Crown, the Spanish justice effectively condemned two young men from Girona in 2007, who had burned a photo of the king. The European Court of Human Rights then condemned Spain for condemning these two young people for interfering in freedom of expression. It considered the European judgment that the sentence applied by Spain was not provided for the purpose pursued or necessary in a democratic society. Let us remember the condemnation of the humorists of El Thursday for a caricature, the condemnation of the mayor of Puerto Real, José Antonio Barroso, for calling the Bourbon delict, who, when entering the audience, declared: one cannot speak of the king, of his illicit business or of his fortune of unknown origin. A retired colonel from the Earth Army, Mr. Martínez Inglés, was also convicted of calling the then head of state corrupt. Man, it seems much more serious than a retired general threatened to shoot twenty-six million Spaniards and their conduct is unpunished today. But, look, the Head of State in Spain has not been directly elected from the Second Republic. There is no constitutional mechanism to ratify, reprimand, censure or stop it, but there are criminal rules to punish criticism of the institution still in its capacity, literally says the type; institution in a broad sense, also extendable to family members. In Rome aggrieved the king was a crime of less majesty, punished with the maximum penalty. The lords of the People's Party will say that now the sanction is lighter; it was just missing. But what, two thousand and five hundred years later, in Spain is still punished the aggravation of the king does not have much justification in democracy. This is what the European Court of Human Rights has been saying. By repealing this rule, those who serve as Head of State and their families are not left without protection from any offence, in fact. They have at their disposal the same rules of protection, civil or criminal, against slander and insult as any citizen. With regard to the offence of outrage against the homeland, in May 2018 the National Court acquitted the accused of beating the king. He concluded that these were facts within the framework of freedom of criticism. This crime is being used to suppress freedom of expression and criticism of symbols. The amendment to the whole of you, on page 5, refers to that 2020 ruling of the Constitutional Court, quoted by Mr Rojas, on outrage against the flag, which confirms the conviction of a Galician worker. In this statement of reasons, they omit that the sentence was given with five particular votes. One of his particular vows questioned the constitutionality of article 543. The dissenting magistrate said: '... all I did was take into account the well-known article 10.2 of our Constitution: 'The rules relating to fundamental rights and freedoms that the Constitution recognizes will be interpreted in accordance with the Universal Declaration of Human Rights...'. ... I was therefore obliged to take into account the Rome Convention of the Council of Europe... and, consequently, to assume the jurisprudence of the European Court of Human Rights. ... This saved my dear Spain a new sentence, such as those we already collected on similar issues. I could certainly be filled with ardent homeland, taking it for inventory's sake, but I didn't think it was serious.' This particular vote is from Professor Andrés Ollero, who for seventeen years was a member of the People's Party in this House. I subscribe to Professor Ollero. [[Applauds]] The critical citizen protest with the established system and its symbolism must be protected by freedom of expression, so we propose the repeal of Article 543. With regard to the offence of insulting State institutions under article 504, with some exception, it has never been applied because institutions in a democratic system have to be exposed to criticism of citizenship. It is an inefficient type for inapplicable and the risk that some mind may be at some point in the process of applying it must be conjured up. It should therefore be repealed. Finally, the offence of exalting article 578 only serves to condemn singers or rapists who have never provoked any terrorist act, and this is verifiable. There can be no prison sentences in a democracy for singing. The Insurgency group was sentenced to six months in prison and rapper Pablo Hasel - who I don't like at all - turned out to be in prison in 2021. Even the Supreme Court admits that the crime of exalting terrorism may conflict with constitutional rights such as freedom of expression. This crime was born in 2004 at a time of extreme terrorist violence in our country and in 2015 the People's Party hardened it, although ETA had announced in 2011 the end of its criminal activity. In 2015, there were numerous arrests for police operations on the Twitter network, with clear prospective content, i.e. no previous crimes. The Ministry of the Interior was headed by Mr. Fernández Díaz, who seemed to be using this crime to cover up his misdemeanours at the head of this ministry at the time of Kitchen. The rise of terrorism, according to our courts, is a crime of opinion, which consists in indirectly inciting the commission of terrorist crimes. In a non-violent context where there are no organized terrorist groups, this crime makes no sense. Our legal system already has other figures such as the defence of the crime of article 18 of the Criminal Code, which punishes provocation for the commission of terrorist offences and where exceptional cases of terrorism which is active as the jihadist may be prosecuted. The European Court of Human Rights says that in matters of opinion punishment can never be imprisonment. The Criminal Code has so far established three years in prison and you, in accordance with these recommendations of the Council of Europe and the European courts, are considering increasing the sentence to four years. But, look, its repeal will not leave the victims of terrorism unprotected because in order to avoid it in the proposed law we propose to amend article 22, introducing the victims of terrorism among the groups that deserve special protection. Gentlemen of the People's Party, it is time to leave behind fear and persecution of criticism and freedom of expression. Democracies admired by you such as the United Kingdom or the United States blushed to keep in their typical laws as they maintain in their amendment to the whole. They lose their fear of freedom of expression and democracy and withdraw their amendment to the whole. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-30-CD210930.u79	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Rojas García has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-30-CD210930.u80	Thank you very much, Mr President. With her coming. Mr. Santiago, I will read you a news from this last week: Churches and Montero request a year and six months in prison for the person who protested in front of their home, and do so for the articles you invoke suspending and withdrawing from the Penal Code. [[applause]] [[Rumors]] What do we do, ladies and gentlemen? Is the debate still going on? I do not know whether to continue the debate because I believe that is the whole point. Yeah, you answer now I don't know how. But, look, you say one thing and you do the opposite. And that's what they've done in their entire political career. In this complaint Mr Iglesias and Mrs Montero accuse you of serious insults against the institutions of the State. What you are asking now to delete. How do you explain this, sir? But, I go further, you have criticized the People's Party here, you have called us all for the Law on Citizen Security. They've called it the Bite Law, along with the Socialist Party, they've taken that crutch, and it turns out they've been in the government for three years and they haven't taken it off, Your Honor. You are ruling and applying a law that you call gag. How is that, Your Honor? There's no greater contradiction, is there? For here something very similar happens, it happens that you and your coalition have not been able to change this law because they did not want to, because they have not entered into the matter, because their partners have prevented it, I do not know, but the truth is that there is a great contradiction. Your Honor, we are not going to withdraw this amendment, we are going to keep it because we firmly believe in it. There are sentences, you have quoted many. There are sentences, there are remedies, there are sentences and there are acquittals. There are also particular votes. It's the rule of law, Your Honor, and that's where we're at. With regard to the constitutions of our environment - which you say: in the United States you were blushed to see what you are proposing - I will tell you that in Germany freedom of expression is recognized by Article 5 of your Constitution and limitations are imposed on your exercise in different areas of the Internet, especially on social networks. The limits to the law, according to the Constitution, must be established by general laws. The most important are contained in the German Penal Code, especially on insult and defamation, incitement to the masses, incitement that may cause disruption to public peace. In other words, the German Penal Code punishes up to five years of imprisonment for the advocacy of Nazism, Your Honor, up to five years for insulting State institutions. In France the same is true, the law is recognized by article 11 of the Declaration of the Rights of Man and Citizen and its Penal Code includes the advocacy of terrorism, as in Spain, and the offence of insulting the flag and the national anthem. Where do you get that we are the only ones in international law? Where do you get that you would have to blush at us in the United States? In Italy it is exactly the same: the Criminal Code punishes incitement to disobedience of laws or to delinquency, including the advocacy of terrorism and crimes against humanity, known as hate crimes. In Belgium it's exactly the same. In Portugal, too, the Penal Code has regulated the limits to freedom of expression. They highlight crimes against honour, cultural identity and personal integrity, incitement to war, discrimination and hatred. In the latter cases, the penalty of imprisonment is provided for. Your Honor, you mention Pablo Hasel. I tell you, honestly, whoever goes against the law has to accept that the law goes against him. It's very simple. It was not the first sentence handed down against Pablo Hasel, he had a history of other criminal acts. You don't say that, but look at the phrases of Paul Hasel: 'I don't feel sorry for your shot in the back of the head, but. I'm sorry for the one who dies in a patera. I don't feel sorry for your shot in the back of the head, socialism.' Another: 'My brother enters the PP headquarters screaming Goa ETA! They don't sell me the story of who the bad guys are, I'm just thinking about killing them.' And you want this to go unpunished. Valtònyc's case. You say that Europe is against us, of the European Court of Human Rights. The European Court of Human Rights has not admitted the action brought by rapper Valtònyc from the sentence of three and a half years in prison for the exaltation of terrorism, insults to the Crown and threats. He won't admit it to trial, ladies and gentlemen. Freedom of expression must be respectful of all citizens and public order, because, if not, it will not be freedom of expression. If you intend with this reform to adapt your political strategy to have a bar free of insults, aggressions and humiliations do not count on us in your plan of assault on the heavens, Your Honor. I will tell you what will happen when the Government is part of the People's Party, that we are going to continue to defend these legal assets, that we are going to continue to protect the victims of terrorism and that we are not going to wrinkle, as this Government and the parties that support it do, changing its principles by a handful of votes. As has happened this week, for example, by voting against decorating national police officers in the lead years. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, I am finished. Everyone there with their principles but I do ask you to defend the Constitution and the rule of law on behalf of and for all Spaniards. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[A lady Member: Very well.-Applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-30-CD210930.u81	Mr Santiago Romero has the floor. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-30-CD210930.u82	Thank you, Mr. President. If I agree with you in any way, it is necessary to speed up legislative changes in order to recover the democratic freedoms and public freedoms that you have committed yourselves to curtailing, which you have dealt with profusely. Therefore, the first thing to do is to reflect on why you are presenting an amendment to the whole without any content, if not for the sole purpose of delaying the process of recovering fundamental freedoms. This amendment in its entirety does not contribute at all, it lacks the slightest legal quality, and the only thing it intends to do is delay in this case the process of repealing those articles of the Criminal Code, that is to say, to put an end to their liberticid norms. I commit myself here to speedily also the reform of the Citizens' Security Act, because, as you know, because of the reforms that you have implemented, we have been denounced by countless international bodies, including United Nations committees. In any case, I don't know why you guys come out and shine... Indeed, they should be ashamed of themselves, because at no time have they made a demonstration of solidarity with a Spanish family with young children who have been coerced and threatened for years and whose privacy is being committed crimes. [[Applauds]] There is not a single manifestation of solidarity known to them. In any case, I will remind you that neither the reform that we have proposed nor its amendment to the whole mentions the crimes of coercion, threats or crimes against privacy. Don't mix barbecues with merinas. I also tell you one thing: as long as the crimes are in the Penal Code, obviously, they will be used by all citizens, it would be missing more! [[rumors]] Some laws for you and other laws for others; very typical of the privileges you intend to maintain, was missing more! [[Rumors.-Applause.]] Look, we are very sad about what is happening in the People's Party, about what Concepción Arenal said, that we must hate crime, but we must pity the offender. In any case, on page 7 of the explanatory memorandum for its amendment to the whole it refers to Germany and the protection of the victims of Nazism. I have followed it in great detail, I have read everything; later they mention the punishment of the apologia of Nazism, and I have continued searching in the text of the amendment, because for a moment I thought that the People's Party would then propose to amend our Penal Code, according to the German model, to punish the apologia of Francoism. But, well, I have to say that no, nor on this occasion does the People's Party propose to punish the apologia of Francoism. [[Applauds]] The amendment you are proposing fails to mention other judgments of the European Court of Human Rights which have condemned Spain for the application of this crime; for example, the recent one of 22 June 2021, which condemned Spain for the case of Tasio Erkizia, or the already classic one of 2011, for the case of Otegi against Spain. Finally, they also forget in the explanatory statement to mention that the Council of Europe rebuked Spain after the imprisonment of Mr Pablo Hasel and asked to adjust the crimes of the rise of terrorism and insults to the Crown to further protect freedom of expression; that the Council of Europe urged to limit the crimes of the rise of terrorism and insults to the Crown, and that the European Commissioner for Human Rights of the Council of Europe, Mrs Mijatovic, would sometimes rebuke Spain for using a very broad notion to sanction declarations - she said - that they are not terrorism. Look, what we want is for Spain not to be ashamed of itself in the international arena. Criminal law, of course, must be used with weight and balance in a democracy, and that is what we intend to do. We intend to use a legislative technique that is a little thinner than the one you have used, because the same courts have been saying that it is absolute legal insecurity for completely indecipherable criminal types and very difficult to apply. In any case, I would like to end by saying that the deletion of these articles leaves no offence of insult or slander committed against any institution or against the Head of State - I have already told you what the other ways are - and also leaves no protection to the victims of terrorism; I insist, for this reason, we have added an amendment supplementing an article of the Criminal Code, so that the victims of terrorism have, with legal certainty and precision - which they do not now have - protection so that they are not offended. That is why they are withdrawing the amendment. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-30-CD210930.u83	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr García Adanero has the floor on behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-30-CD210930.u84	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. [[The lady]] It is right for the spokesman of the Communist Party to come out and talk about freedom of expression, because he shows what the Government's intention is on this issue, and it is obviously that those who think like them have freedom of expression and deny freedom of expression to all those who think differently. [[Mr. Mayoral Perales, from the hallway, as he leaves the Chamber and addresses Mr. García Adanero: That's why you can talk here!]] Yeah. You know why I can talk? I can speak because there is democracy in Spain, despite some. [[Mr. Mayoral Perales, from the corridor, utters words that are not perceived]] Exactly, I can talk about it. [[Mr. Mayoral Perales, from the corridor, utters words that are not perceived]] Even though they tried to kill me for being free, I can speak; not like you, that no one has tried to kill you. [[Applauds]] That's where we could get to! I hope so, Madam President. The point is, when you're in the rostrum, I'll ask you what's going on here in the middle. But this is it! That's the problem. It's just that it's crystal jaw. It's the crystal jaw! And that's what's going on, that when you say something, they insult you, here, here! I don't mean on the street anymore. Is that freedom of expression, friends? Ah, that's right, if the insult is to others, then what is it? Of course, with you, freedom of expression; with us, we fall asleep. What crushes a family? I want you to crush her. But if it is another, no; then no, to jail. But what is this?- No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Here they want to make a Penal Code according to voting intentions: That Esquerra likes to burn Spanish flags? That's all I can do. That the CUP wants to hang figures of the King? That's all I can do. That Bildu wants to pay tribute to murderers? That's all I can do. That I'm in a church and between someone from Podemos half naked to yell at my religion and throw a crucifix, etc.? That's all I can do. That's right, if I'm going to pray on the street, in jail. But who do you think? Who do you think? I cannot defend my ideas in Congress or in the street, and you can say what you want; that is, you pretend to be imprisoned in the middle of the stand of representatives of Spain. That's what they're trying to do! [[Applauds]] It's good for you, man. They're worth it! We all have freedom of expression. You think we have no right to talk, and as long as we can talk. They tried to silence us; they tried, but they didn't. They got it with some partners, but others are here and we're going to keep saying what we want. That's where we could get to! Let them tell us now from the Communist Party that we have to be quiet. It was just missing! Thank you very much. [[Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the People's and VOX groups, some of them on their feet.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-30-CD210930.u85	Mr Iñarritu García has the floor for the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-30-CD210930.u86	I left it on. Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, I have read with interest your explanatory statement, but, curiously, beyond mentioning the case law in part, you have forgotten the chastity that the European Court of Human Rights has attached to Spain precisely because of the application of Article 578. That which you want to harden, the European Court of Human Rights tells you that it has been applied in a case recently in Spain incorrectly. But do you know what the president of that room says? That the problem is in the article. He says it's vague, that it leads to disproportionateness and with that there are situations like that of Mr. Tasio Erkicia. This doesn't matter to you. I believe that you are proud of this chestnut tree, but the problem - Mr Santiago has mentioned it - is that the Commissioner for Human Rights of the Council of Europe, last February, pointed out that there were several problems in Spain - what you say does not exist, is guaranteed - in relation to freedom of expression and precisely pointed out that article, pointed out 578, which the European institutions are calling for to repeal and you are asking to harden. Look, it's not new. You have the custom of bringing here and using phrases made that mean nothing. For example, in their explanatory statement they point out that freedom of expression is sufficiently guaranteed in Spain and that this is why our country appears year after year in all the international classifications of the most advanced democratic systems and with the highest standards. Well, this doesn't mean anything. It's absurd. You know why? Because a year and a half ago, in the United Nations human rights review, it was precisely what 15 States were pointing out to him that there was a problem in Spain with regard to freedom of expression. Similarly, the report of five United Nations rapporteurs pointed to the problem that existed in Spain on the basis of freedom of expression. Look, you have a record - as you are proud of it - and that is that in Europe, of the thirty-one artists sentenced to prison terms, fourteen are in the Spanish state. This is good for you, isn't it? It is his example of freedom of expression. That's how things are done. But, if that were not enough, there are also the Freedom House reports; Amnesty International's report, in 2018, that of 'Tuitea...if you dare'; that of the organization Article 19, or that of the Platform for the Right to Information. There's a problem. You were commenting on it, and I agree. In its nauseating law, which also calls for the United Nations to be repealed, the Government and the parties that support it have a problem. There, look, I agree, and that is why I ask the parties that support the Government to hurry and that this rule be repealed or reformed in their most damaging articles at once. But, in the same way, the problem lies in the Penal Code. Why? Because Spain has one of the most severe criminal systems in the European Union. It is true, already mentioned by Mr Santiago, that there are articles for which some conduct can be condemned, there is no such lack of protection, but what seems to me to be even absurd is that in the examples that you have pointed out to harden that article 578 the National Court itself says that there is no place, that it makes no sense, that this crime is not applicable. Moreover, they use a story, augmented by some media, to try, on the basis of falsehood, to create a need to harden an article that the European institutions themselves are asking for to be repealed. That is why we will vote against it, as it could not be otherwise. Look, I agree that we must have respect, empathy, solidarity with the victims, with those of ETA and with all, with all the victims, regardless of who the victim is. That's why I think that double measuring rod that is sometimes used is not just a nonsense, but it leaves in evidence what some standards are proposed for and what their goal is. They should, of course, have the protection and recognition of all victims. Mr. Rojas, to finish. I repeated this in June, because the debates are taking place. The stress test of freedom of expression is not done with what we think is right, with what we may disagree with, but we understand that the contrary can expose. The stress test of the right to freedom of expression lies precisely in those most horrifying, inciting and even citizen-like statements. Here's the stress test of what you can say and what you can't say in a state. That is why we point out - not because we say so - that Spain has a problem on the basis of freedom of expression, as many European institutions have pointed out, and therefore, believing that this article that you want to harden is arbitrary, disproportionate and unjustified and gives rise to legal uncertainty, we will vote against it. We also, as I said, ask the parties that support the Government to once and for all that law, which makes Spain a country, a State in which freedom of expression and other civil rights are not guaranteed, to be repealed, to be reformed as soon as possible. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-30-CD210930.u87	Thank you very much, Mr. Iñarritu. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]] [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-30-CD210930.u88	Thank you very much, President. I will speak from the seat because I will do so briefly, simply to say that we will not vote in favour of the full amendment tabled by the People's Parliamentary Group, by proposing that we do not confront freedom of expression with the various criminal types on which we believe there are strong doubts, although certainly in some cases they are not free of edges. We believe that this is a debate that we must not reject, as it addresses one of the key issues in a democratic system, in which, as I said in this House yesterday, freedom of expression is founded, freedom of expression by which democratic systems are identified vis-à-vis authoritarian systems. Ladies and gentlemen, as our parliamentary group has done on other occasions when debates have taken place on this issue, our vote will always be aimed at holding a calm debate and a technical and legal examination in depth, both of the proposals made in the initiative that is now being amended in full with alternative text and of others that could be presented through partial amendments or the bill that the Government publicly undertook to send to this House on this same issue, although it has not been included in the Annual Normative Plan 2021. Nothing more and thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-30-CD210930.u89	Thank you very much, Mr. Legarda. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr López-Bas Valero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-30-CD210930.u90	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, do you know how important freedom is to us, to the liberals? All, all the importance, but we talk about all freedom, because we do not cut it, we do not defend it one day yes and another no, we do not subject it to any ideology. We defend freedom of expression, of course, as we also defend freedom to resort to euthanasia or to love those who want to love in order to be able to form a family with subrogated gestation or freedom to consumercannabis. We defend one and all freedoms, because we are liberal by conviction and by the recognition of the European liberal family. For us, ladies and gentlemen, freedom is more than just an electoral slogan. It is to bet truly on the media free of politicization or on a justice free of hand-to-hand distribution of armchairs by politicians. Therefore, when We can bring us a legislative text full of attacks on freedom, it seems to us consistent that they do so, given their constant subordination of freedom to their particular political interests, but it also seems paradoxical, not to say tremendous cynicism, when they do so with the excuse of defending freedom. Ladies and gentlemen of Podemos, you say things like that in Spain there is an authoritarian drift, when The Economist tells us that we are a full democracy with standards higher than those of Italy or France; however, we have lost six seats, from 16 to 22, in that ranking of 167 countries, but precisely since they ruled PSOE and Podemos. You say that in Spain we have a colonized and kidnapped judicial dome, and you say it without any kind of blush, when you have intended a politicized judiciary, chosen by the same majority that supports the Executive. You say that certain articles of the Penal Code must be repealed because they come from the Franco dictatorship, and you forget that it is the Penal Code of Democracy, the Penal Code of 1995, of a socialist government, voted by forces at that time as the United Left or Republican Left. You speak of being persecuted for crimes of opinion, and here you refer to politicians who have been convicted in a final sentence by the Supreme Court, when, on the other hand, you are unable to recognize, for example, that Cuba is a dictatorship. I'll tell you why we reject your legal text. First of all, because you propose the repeal of various articles punishing slanders to the king, offenses to religious sentiments or insults to national symbols or autonomous communities, and it turns out that these are crimes that are already practically as reflected in the original wording of the Criminal Code and, moreover, in comparative legislation, as has been said, in countries such as Italy, France or Germany. You confuse legitimate political criticism with acts that have nothing to do with freedom of expression. In Spain we have a model of non- militant democracy, where you can freely express your opinion, you can say what you want, you are not required to adhere to the Constitution or its fundamental principles, but you are required to respect the legal norms, which are the basis of coexistence. You may aspire to reform our system from the top down, you may want to change the territorial model of the State, but you must do so from the law, respecting the law, respecting the institutions, without violating the current law. They can't go into coups d'état like they did in Catalonia. From Citizens we will always defend the highest level of freedoms, but we will also defend that the exercise of these rights has its limits, as has been said, because this is established by article 20 of the Constitution itself, and these limits are in the rights recognized in the text of the Magna Charter itself, in the laws that develop it and especially in the right to honour, privacy and image itself, as well as in the protection of young people and children. Moreover, those limits should be applied and interpreted restrictively, because that was stated in the Constitutional Court's doctrine. Secondly, you want to repeal the rise of terrorism in article 578 of the Criminal Code, but you do not know what the very explanatory statement of the 7/2000 Act reads: It is not with all evidence to prohibit the praise or defense of ideas or doctrines, however far or even question the constitutional framework, and even less to prohibit subjective expressions about historical or current events. On the contrary, it is as simple as to pursue the exaltation of terrorist methods, radically illegitimate from any constitutional perspective, or of the perpetrators of these crimes, as well as of the particularly perverse conduct of those who slander or humiliate the victims at the same time as increasing the horror of their families. That's exactly what this is about. That is why we cannot accept the proposal that you are making to us, because it directly attacks the dignity of the victims of terrorism, because with your proposal you claim that the humiliations of the victims go out for free and, moreover, that we have to attend almost smiling to those tributes, which are genuine spectacles of debilitation, when terrorists are received out of prison. These tributes are to exalt those convicted of terrorism who have not repented, who have not cooperated with the justice system and who have not yet shown any regrets, and remember that there are more than 300 ETA attacks still to be clarified. These tributes re-victimize those affected by terrorism; it is to add new pain to that already suffered by themselves, their families or their friends. These tributes are a perverse attempt to rewrite history, showing as heroes those who are but executioners of almost a thousand innocents. Finally, we will not consent to your intolerable considerations about the work of the State Security Forces and Bodies, which you are again trying, with your proposal, to criminalize. We will not accept much less that they question the work of those who defend and protect our rights and freedoms every day, ours and yours, those of those who make this proposal. We will not allow you, with legal ambiguities, to put forward articles such as the 536 bis or to reform the 538, both of them from the Penal Code, without any form of criminal law. Ladies and gentlemen of Podemos, if Citizens voted in their day against the consideration of your proposal, it is clear that today we will vote in favour of this amendment as a whole; if we did it for dignity and for the true defence of freedom and respect for the rights of all, we will do it the same now. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-30-CD210930.u91	Thank you very much, Mr López-Bas. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, first of all, Mr Rego Candamil. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-30-CD210930.u92	Thank you, Madam President. Faced with the maximum Lampedusian of changing everything so that everything remains the same, the People's Party chooses the traditional one not to change anything so that everything remains the same. I do not know, and I am not going to waste time on it, which of the two can be more effective, but we are grateful for the clarity of the People's Party. The exercise of freedom of expression is of little importance to the PP, as he has shown so much in his years of government and in legal texts such as the Law gags, unfortunately still in force; what they are really concerned about is supporting the 78's regime at all costs. It is clear that the People's Party is convinced that institutions such as the monarchy or even the Spanish political regime can only be maintained, the Penal Code in hand, through coercion and repression of the discrepancy, persecuting the exercise of freedom of expression. But there is not enough Penal Code to cover up the discredit of an anachronistic and corrupt monarchy of Bourbons who occupied the Head of State by decision of the French dictator and who used it for personal benefit with all kinds of wrongs and illegalities. There is no Penal Code that prevents the demand for democracy and democratic and sovereign republics from growing, nor is there sufficient propaganda and branding of Spain to conceal that freedom of expression is being pursued in the Spanish State. The proposed amendments could be more ambitious, but their amendment, the PP amendment, is limited to more of the same: more gag and less democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-30-CD210930.u93	Thank you very much, Mr. Rego. For the same group, Mrs Sabanes Nadal has the floor now. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-30-CD210930.u94	Thank you, President. From More Country-Greens-Equo we are going to vote against the amendment to the totality that is presented to us today, mainly because what is intended is to divert attention from the unfortunate and controversial regulations that have been governing in our country since 2015. But reality is clumsy; even though you want to divert attention, reality is clumsy. One, freedom of demonstration has been restricted and action has been taken against social activism - that is the effect -. Two, censorship has been reinforced by condemning and persecuting dozens of people, artists, journalists, politicians, humorists or rapists, producing a clear European reproach for violating human rights and freedoms. Finally, no less important, guarantees and counterweights have been eliminated by increasing the discretion of police forces without any monitoring and evaluation mechanism. This has resulted in over two hundred thousand sanctions, of which 70% are for disobedience, lack of respect for authority, identification, etc. And when this happens, ladies and gentlemen, when these percentages and impact are given, it is that we have forgotten that the main value to protect is freedom of expression, which is part of human rights and citizenship rights. Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-30-CD210930.u95	Thank you very much, Mrs. Sabanes. For the same group, and lastly, Mr Pagès i Massó has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-30-CD210930.u96	Good morning, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the amendment to the whole PP is a good example of what it is like to go in the opposite direction, against Europe and against rights. By the way, this going in a direction contrary to common sense and reality is not just the heritage of the PP. As an example, the aberrant statements of the Secretary of State for Security, number two of the Ministry of the Interior, Mr Rafael Pérez Ruiz, according to which the police station of Via Laietana de Barcelona has been a symbol of public service where several generations of police have contributed to strengthening democracy in our country. Ladies and gentlemen, the police station in Via Laietana is not a public service symbol unless it is a public service to torture and kill, but then the LAG would also fall into this category. Socialist ladies and gentlemen, we know that you are not just coming to applaud, vote and collect, and you must have hurt those demonstrations, because many socialists were tortured there during the Francoism and the dark years of the Transition for your anti-Franchist militancy, along with Catalanists, anarchists and PSUC militants. We recommend to Mr Pérez Ruiz the book Memòria de la resistência antifranquista, where the journalist AntoniBatista explains it in detail. We recall that in 2017 the Internal Commission of this House approved a non-law proposal to turn the police station into a historical memory space. We demand the immediate delivery of the property to the Catalan administrations to this end. Returning to freedom of expression, the PP amendment proposes limiting it to protect the indissoluble unity of the Spanish nation. It must be the responsibility of Mr Lesmes, according to which the whole Spanish system is based on the principle of unity, and not, for example, on respect for constitutional rights. Well, this is not the right direction. On the contrary, according to the European Court of Human Rights, freedom of expression must be protected in the face of State coercion as a guarantee of a mature public opinion and political pluralism, and this includes, of course, being able to burn flags and pictures of the king. You forgot to quote Stern Taulats, Mr. Rojas. It is up to the legislator to ensure a public debate free of interference, just the opposite of extending the crimes of religious defamation, insults to the Crown, institutions, bodies and security forces or the indiscriminate application of hate and exaltation crimes with the consequent persecution of dissidents. Here, for example, is the letter a few months ago to the Minister of Justice of Mrs Dunja Mijatovic, Human Rights Commissioner of the Council of Europe, and so many other European resolutions to which we refer. Finally, today I remind you that four years ago tens of thousands of people spent the night protecting Catalan schools from state violence, and that on October 1st, against all odds, we voted in a historic act of democratic dissent, being the greatest exercise of freedom of expression of recent times in Europe. We did, and this changed everything. Visca Catalunya free!
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-30-CD210930.u97	Thank you very much, Mr Pagès. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Telechea i Lozano has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-30-CD210930.u98	Thank you, President. Bon dia, MPs and MPs. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, I will be very brief because we had this debate last June with the consideration of the proposal for a United Nations law. In addition, Mr Podemos and other colleagues who have spoken before me have been very clear and, therefore, I do not want to repeat myself. They bring us nothing new, but taking into account the ideology of your party, we are not surprised that your amendment to the whole is only and exclusive to amend the Criminal Code by increasing the penalties provided for, only, for the crime of terrorism, obviating everything else. I believe that this is not the way to guarantee the free exercise of freedom of expression. We have shown to the satisfaction that the Spanish State restricts the rights and freedoms to the stroke of the Penal Code, actively applying it against the media, against tweeters, against journalists and against people who are protesting and protesting. This is the reality, day by day in this low-cost or low-intensity democracy. For this reason, it has already received several convictions, as has also been said here, from the European Court of Human Rights, which does not need to be reminded, but above all the judgments of 2011 and 2018. In their amendment to the whole, they do not modify or propose anything to guarantee the following rights: religious freedom, since in one supposed confessional State they cannot override the feelings of some citizens over others; criticism of the monarchy or of the heads of State or Government, which the United Nations Human Rights Committee has already expressed on several occasions its concern about the severity with which they are punished and which - I quote literally - qualifies as disproportionate and paralysing on the right to freedom of expression; criticism of the symbols of the Spanish State, which the Constitutional Court, which defends you so much, has followed the jurisprudence of the European Court of Human Rights and has made it clear that, although these are ideas that question the system itself, they are protected by freedom of expression. As with the rights to vote and criticize the high courts, the governments of the various territories and the State Security Forces and Corpses, as institutions of a supposedly democratic system must be exposed and thus allow criticism of citizens. Or, for example, the repeal of the Citizens' Security Act, and that goes for you too, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, that despite being an administrative law, which is not criminal, the sanctions imposed on demonstrators have a demobilising effect on citizens, and so has been denounced by many international human rights organizations. In this regard, the Council of Europe's own Human Rights Commission has asked the Spanish State to introduce legal changes in relation to crimes of insult to the Crown, defamation and insults to religious sentiments, considering that the criminal repression of such conduct does not respond - in the words of the convention - to the necessary measures in a democratic society, because they generate a deterrent effect and hinder the democratic debate that must be plural. I have to remind you again here, despite the fact that we are in a Parliament, that Community law - and that should be known from the minute one enters this House - and international human rights treaties are binding, but it seems that the Spanish State is alien to all this. In the meantime, the plenary session of the General Council of the Judiciary, for example, allows for the defence of the offence of exaltation of the Francoist dictatorship, taking advantage precisely of the right to freedom of expression, but also adds that the right of demonstration cannot be subjected to any control of political opportunity or to trials. On the one hand, this is said by the Plenary of the General Council of the Judiciary - which, when it is of interest that they defend it - and on the other hand, the State Advocate asks fourteen and thirteen years of disqualification respectively from the mayor and the lieutenant of the mayor of Sant Carles de la Ràpita for October 1, surpassing the request of the Prosecutor's Office. Tomorrow we will make four years of that victory we won in Catalonia. [[Applauds]] I'm done, President. In the Spanish State, Francoism can be exalted, and nothing happens, but there can be no demonstrations, nor can there be any ballots for citizens to exercise their right to vote, which is no other right to exercise democracy. In short, we have repeated innumerable times that the guarantee of rights and freedoms cannot be achieved through the reform of the Criminal Code and the tightening of penalties. For all that you have said, as you can imagine, our vote is going to be negative. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-30-CD210930.u99	Thank you very much, Mrs. Telechea. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Sánchez García has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-30-CD210930.u100	With the venom. I was thinking of starting these words by expressing my satisfaction at being able to speak today from this rostrum about freedom of expression, and I do, but I would like to add more satisfactions. The first is to have seen Mr Santiago Romero, the flaming Secretary of State of the Socialcommunist Government, defending here today that the crimes of mockery of religion, of insulting the king, of outrages against Spain and of exalting terrorism. I am extremely pleased that you have said this in this rostrum because I hope that the voters - and included those of Podemos - will reconsider their vote and, as Mr Rufián always warns, will move to VOX. [[Applauds]] I also hope that the Socialist Party voters will become aware - if it were not, I do not think - of who they are ruling with. This is the subject, the party, the person and the ideology that governs in coalition with the Socialist Party. Secondly, I wanted to say something about a general feature of this bill and its motivation, which is the subject of an amendment to the whole of the People's Party, and it is generally said that these crimes that I have mentioned are all constituting special types and therefore remain in the laws because there are other general types that also sanction such conduct. Well, I must tell you it's phariseeism. Phariseism like Caiaphas in the Sanhedrin condemning Jesus Christ for blasphemy and tearing his garments. Phariseeism, Phariseeism! Because you last week in a delirious session proposed special types - special types! - to sanction those who are proficient activists who go to abortion clinics, when there are common types like coercion and threats. [[Applauds]] That is to say, you want to incriminate the activists provided and, consequently, to release abortion from all sanctions, from any nature, and from being liberating, and you also want it not to be a crime in Spain, nor to insult the king, nor to insult Spain, nor to exalt terrorism, nor to hurt religious feelings, which are by the way the feelings of the majority of Spaniards. And I'm not talking about Catholics, I'm talking about non-Catholic Christians, I'm talking about Muslims, I'm talking about Jews, and I'm talking about any profession of theistic faith protected by that precept that you want to repeal. [[Applauds]] Let them know that you are a minority in Spain and in the world, and since you are a minority with these laws they want the majority to become a minority by protecting it, and nothing more. Something very undemocratic, of course, very unliberal and very unpresentable. The Podemos Group, and in particular the Communist Party, on these crimes which they now intend to repeal by this bill, say in the text that it has been found that totally obsolete criminal types are being used, not in accordance with the Spanish Constitution and unsuitable for a developed democracy. You have been portrayed as a political party! You are a totally obsolete political party, not in accordance with the Spanish Constitution and unfit for a developed democracy. [[Applauds]] And despite that, he has invited them to rule with him - and let's hope for a short time - Sanchez. That's right. And then he adds that these criminal types have no place in a plural democratic system. Whoever has room for a plural democratic system is a party like Podemos and others, who today, in a condescending tone, Mr Iñarritu, have given us a few drops of empathy with the victims of terrorism. From here, I freely manifest to you that we profess you antipathy and that you, of course, are not characterized by your sympathy. We've got that dose of condescending empathy left. [[Applause. - (FR) Madam President, the President-in-Office of the Council takes the Chair.]] I'm going to the point of this matter. I must remember that here, in a session last week, it was said that VOX deputies threatened - VOX deputies -, coerced, insulted and called killers to the women who were approaching the clinics to abort. Injury and slander, which did not give rise to any intervention by the Presidency. Injury and slander, and therefore an offence protected and protected by the parliamentary immunity that we all enjoy, as set out in article 71.1 of the Constitution. What you want now, in addition to being able to insult and slander ad libitum in this House because you are Members, instead of being responsible and being persecuted as such perpetrators of crimes, is that besides outside this House, freely and at no rate - I repeat once again - the religious feelings of those who profess a faith are offended, Spain is outraged, the head of State is insulted and terrorism can be raised without any criminal sanction. That's what you want. And do not come to us with Chinese tales - and never better said -, now that Soviet Russia is already extinct and led by Mr Putin, Mr Santiago Romero or Romero Santiago. Forgive me because I don't remember your name. [[Laughter and applause]] All the motivation for the proposed law is a mere whiff of sentences cited to the remanguille. That is not the case, I have already explained in the matter of insults to the king and outrages to Spain what resulted from the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights Stern and Roura, and I also said what I had arranged and what I had ruled in the judgment of the Spanish Constitutional Court. You're cheating. It's a false motivation, it's a motivation without an intellectual foundation. With regard to other issues relating to these crimes, for example, on the mockery of religion, I have to say the following. The Constitutional Court has already stated in its decision 180/1986 that...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-30-CD210930.u101	Mr. Sanchez, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-30-CD210930.u102	I am asking for a second or two more because the other Members have enjoyed a few additional seconds.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-30-CD210930.u103	Don't lose them, Mr. Sanchez. Mr. SANCHEZ GARCIA: The confessional nature of the State does not imply that the religious beliefs and feelings of society cannot be protected. In conclusion, Madam President, I promise you. The Constitutional Court, in its judgement 214/1991, in the amparo appeal brought by Mrs Violeta Friedman against Degrelle, has also stated that honour may justify the prohibition and criminalization of offensive conduct directed against members of a collective. Nothing more, I'm done. Thank you. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-30-CD210930.u104	Thank you, Mr. Sanchez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. García. For the Socialist Group, Mr Taibo Monelos has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-30-CD210930.u105	President, ladies and gentlemen, it is true that something has been said here and the Socialist Group wants to make it clear. There are a number of important recommendations, both from the United Nations Human Rights Council and from the Council of Europe Human Rights Commission, Mrs Mijatovic, which call on the Spanish State to reform the Criminal Code in order to avoid convictions for the exercise of freedom of expression in full conformity with article 10 of the European Convention on Human Rights and Freedoms, as well as from the European Court of Human Rights, which, let us recall, is accumulating and accumulating sentences and convictions against Spain in this area. The European Court of Human Rights maintains that in a democratic society, faced with the protection of the community through its institutions, freedom of expression must prevail because it helps shape political debate and free citizen participation. [[Applauds]] In Freemuse's ranking - which has already been quoted - on artists sentenced to prison, the one with number one in artists sentenced to prison is not a whole series of foreign dictatorships, but is precisely Spain. That, ladies, should make us think. A Member State of the European Union, which is regarded as a democracy of the most advanced in the world, has the highest number of convicted artists at the same time. I say this only and exclusively by providing a whole series of objective data that invite Spain, in this case to its Government and also to this House, to review the Criminal Code, to analyse those aspects, in this case, related to the freedom of opinion and the freedom of expression that have become outdated, which are defined in a way that is not in keeping with the times because the current social reality has changed. The feeling of public opinion about certain offences and certain offences has changed, so there is a requirement that we must address. This is not a whim, we are talking about issues that require a special sensitivity, that require a lot of prudence, that require taking due account of legal doctrine, expanding consensus. It would be barbaric, indeed, and today we are demonstrating it, to face a reform of the Criminal Code from exclusively partisan positions. And this is what is being heard here, when it comes to accommodating that Penal Code to a reality that has changed. It is true that the Penal Code must regulate the limits of freedom of expression, which it has, but it is also true that there are concepts that do not correspond to the present times. There are penalties for deprivation of liberty that should not exist for certain offences of opinion or expression and others that are excessive. It is also true that the Socialist Parliamentary Group would not - in fact, it is not, at all - agree with the very substantial maximalist positions, derogations or modifications proposed by the United Nations Proponent Group Podemos. In this proposal for an organic law we are talking, among other things, about the abolition of the type of 578, that is, the crime of the exaltation of terrorism, the humiliation of the victims of terrorism and there they will not find us. This is a type, ladies and gentlemen, that by an elementary sensitivity, a sense of prudence, an assessment of the legal doctrine, we must recover from the doctrine calmly in a legislative committee, because it is a very sensitive issue that cannot be solved by mere suppression, as this proposal proposes. The Constitution itself calls for us to update the regulation of fundamental rights at the present time and, I would like to recall, there is a very sound expression in its preamble that reminds us that the will of the Constitution must be to establish an advanced democratic society. And if we are advancing in rights and freedoms, as we are seeing in the various approvals being made here, freedom of opinion and expression must move forward with new formulations. It is not a question of unprotecting anyone, it is not a question of granting impunity towards anything, since the institutions, the honour of people or symbols have their overall defence framework. There will be no defencelessness and no protection, and what will be - and was already announced by the Government several months ago - is the will to address the reform of the Criminal Code in a calm and more proportionate manner, taking into account the current reality of the present times. In that case, it is necessary to measure these real risks, the risks that involve possible severity of action. Many of them would have to be civil penalties, administrative penalties or criminal fines, but not deprivation of liberty. Therefore, in the Socialist Parliamentary Group, as we announced in our consideration, we are prepared to open this debate to the revision of the Penal Code and, therefore, we will support, at the time, the proposal and we will vote against this amendment to the whole proposed by the People's Party. And we're going to do it from three premises. First, it must be done from the point of view of consensus. Today I ask the People's Party and its spokesman - although the facts do not precede it in a favourable way with this amendment, but I do think that this is in the tone of their speech and debate - to go with a more constructive spirit to participate in this debate, so that we can reach agreements and consensus for the reform of the Criminal Code. It is very important that the reform of the Criminal Code achieves a great consensus in the democratic parties of this House. Secondly, there needs to be a dialogue with society. The amendment of the Criminal Code in this volume of articles and in these sensitive areas requires a permanent dialogue and a lot of pedagogy in the parliamentary debate. Thirdly, as I have said repeatedly, case law and legal doctrine must be taken into account. What you cannot and should not do, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, is to anchor yourself in immobilism and put forward an amendment to keep everything the same or, more importantly, to impose with more imprisonment punishable acts that must have another legal fit, another modulation. That is our readiness for dialogue and consensus, to which this Socialist Parliamentary Group invites you, with your best interest. I end with a phrase from Voltaire that I understand that we should all make our own in this House: 'I do not agree with what you say, but I will defend with my life your right to express it'. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-30-CD210930.u106	Thank you very much, Mr Taibo. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-30-CD210930.u107	We continue with the item on the agenda for the debate on the proposal for a reform of the Rules of Procedure of the Congress of Deputies to incorporate a new Title XIV for the regulation of interest groups. An amendment to the entire alternative text has been tabled to this proposal for reform of the Regulation. For the defence of the amendment tabled, I have the floor, by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Navarro López.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-30-CD210930.u108	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are talking about interventionism or freedom, today what we are talking about is dealing with the reform of the Rules of Procedure in relation to interest groups, with pressure groups, with two different proposals: the Socialist Group's proposal and the one made by the People's Group, but fundamentally with a very important difference, an absolutely discretionary sanctioning procedure proposed by the Socialist Group. Today we are talking in this debate about pre-control, government control over opposition or transparency. Today we are talking much more than about regulating pressure groups, because what the Socialist Party wants is to reform the Rules of Procedure of the Congress of Deputies not only without consensus, but without even trying. It wants all Members, whatever their responsibility, to submit to the discretionary and subjective control of the Bureau, I repeat, while the one that must be controlled, the Government, remains unchecked. And he claims it with a disciplinary regime that from the point of view of the People's Group is openly unconstitutional as we will see later. That is why the Group of the European People's Party is presenting an alternative today, as it has already done from the Government, betting on transparency, freedom and - if I may say so, ladies and gentlemen - respecting the autonomy of the work of each and every one of us day by day. A reform of the Rules of Procedure, the Rules of Debate and the Rules of Parliamentary Work must have the consensus of a large majority; aware that this proposal has a long way to go, the spirit of our group will be open, it will be heard, it will be consensus. These are the words of Mr Navalpotro in defence of the consideration of this project, of the Socialist Group, therefore, in May. The Socialist Group intends to reform the Rules of Procedure of the Congress of Deputies and, at least, Mr Navalpotro, the People's Group - the majority opposition group - have not been addressed. This is a reality, contrary to what you said. In four months they haven't had time to call the People's Group. What is desirable, of course, is unanimity, the obvious thing is that it requires absolute majority. The reality is that the Socialist Group has not had time to get in touch with the Group of the European People's Party in such a quiet reform. Its aim is to advance the reformist agenda of the Government, he said. Look, while this proposal is being put forward by the Government, the then Minister of Territorial Policy and Public Service initiated a prior consultation to launch the same project that will force the Government to maintain an open relationship with the lobbying groups. Well, four months later, absolutely nothing. But, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, according to the open government plan of Spain, according to the open government plan of your government, the proposal that obliges - which they intend to force us in the Congress of Deputies - the government is delayed to December 2022. [[Show a document]] In four months, you intend to force us all to tell us who we are meeting with, what we are talking about, and to what end. And at the same time in the government they take him, as soon as possible, to December 2022. The Socialist Group therefore proposes that those we have to control be controlled, and those that should be controlled by this Congress remain the least transparent government in history. They will understand that, moreover, in the hands of a Bureau that has already demonstrated its partiality - when it is not discretionary - in some of its decisions - I remind them that there are two amparo remedies admitted to the Constitutional Court, installed by the People's Group, we are obviously concerned about the disciplinary regime they propose. I'll give you an example. Yesterday an amendment was adopted that left out the banana of the Canary Islands of the Law on Improvement of the Food Chain. If an opposition deputy meets with Asaja in the Canary Islands and Asaja is not registered in the Socialist Party's proposed register, the deputy will be punished. But they will explain to us how the Bureau will also sanction Asaja. With its proposal a group of interest from a province, if it does not comply with the rules, can be sanctioned. Can anyone explain to us how the Bureau of the Congress of Deputies can sanction a third party who is outside the constitutional mandate, which is outside the parliamentary mandate? Can anyone explain to us how the Socialist Party intends to sanction the Mortgage-Affected Platform or a collective of any kind that comes to expose us to Members a problem, if it does not comply absolutely with everything the Rules say? Because this is what your proposal says, Mr Socialist Party, this is what your proposal says, Mr Government. Look, the less transparent government of history, the one that the other day brought in six ministers of twenty-two, the one who does not tell us what he is talking about at the bad table of the dialogue with Catalonia, the one who has not dared to debate the state of lanation for three years, the one who ran out yesterday when they ask him, the government that has brought the leader of the Frente Polisario, accused of genocide and rape, with a false identity and we do not know how many ministers are involved, the government that has the tainted deputy general, because there is a judge who says he is charging nine million euros to coordinate with it, or talking about pressure groups, the government that has had Ivan Redondo in La Moncloa for several years, charging 324% more, without knowing who he meets, that government wants not only us, but all the Members tell him who we meet and what we talk about and that we deliver all the documentation. Here is the Secretary of State for Relations with the Courts, and we are convinced that when he sees what the People's Parliamentary Group is talking about with a collective and we have to register him, he will not use that information at all, and he will not pass it on to any ministry, total and absolutely convinced. Gentlemen of the PSOE, they run to control those we have to control the government, and instead they prevent the government from being controlled. That is why we have proposed an alternative; an alternative - Mr Navalpotro, you will agree - which reflects the fundamentals: it speaks of transparency in the relationship and in the legitimate use of influence in the public decision-making process. Our alternative text reflects transparency and democratic quality in the procedure; we are talking about a register, exactly like you; we recognize the systemic work of interest groups in the constitutional regime; we are talking about the legislative footprint; we are also proposing a legislative footprint accompanying any normative text, but then, Socialist Party gentlemen, when the procedure is over, not before. What the Socialist Group proposes - all honourable Members must know - is that when we register any initiative we are obliged to say whether a pressure group has transferred it to us. When citizens, the Basque Nationalist Party or any other party register an initiative, they will have to say who gave them the idea, and that, they will agree with me, it loads at least ten articles of the Spanish Constitution. We cannot leave the sanctioning power, because the Constitutional Court itself has said so, in the hands of a Bureau which has already shown us that it is not always, it is not always all that should be objective. Therefore, the People's Parliamentary Group presents this amendment to the whole, which - I repeat - guarantees transparency in our relationship with organised civil society, with the legitimacy, gentlemen of the PSOE, of having approved in 2013 the first law on transparency of our country, with the legitimacy of having launched the Council of Transparency and Good Government, which Mr Sánchez does not pay attention to six out of ten times, with the legitimacy of having tried it already in 2014 with a motion for a resolution in the debate of the state of the nation, this debate so important that it was held before, when you did not govern, and that it did not crystallize exclusively because the Socialist Parliamentary Group did not want it. We bet on the compulsory registration and the legislative footprint; we bet, in short, on a guaranteed alternative that does not put in the hands of the Bureau - I think this is very important, gentlemen of the left - in the hands of the Bureau to be sanctioned; of any Bureau, gentlemen of the Socialist Party, because I suppose you will understand that sooner or later - we are sure that sooner or later - the representativeness of the Bureau will obviously change. What we are voting for today, in short, is that we agree to recognize the systemic and constitutional work of interest groups, but to do so without a sanctioning regime, which would obviously condemn us all, and also with other additions. I give you other examples: if you meet with a means of communication and it tells you something that influences the legislative process, you will be obliged to discharge it in the register; if a consumer association sends you a report, you will be obliged to do so. This is something that the European Union obliges us - we agree - but it obliges us without a sanctioning regime, gentlemen of the Socialist Party. When the majority of the doctrine of what he speaks of is the dichotomy between regulating the subject or the action of influence, the Socialist Party intends to restrict our relational work with organised civil society, under a coercive and punitive threat; something that the People's Parliamentary Group will of course not accept; something that attacks the principle of representativeness, the freedom of association and the participation of all citizens in political life, enshrined in article 9.2 of the Constitution; something, Mr Navalpotro and lords of the PSOE, which even the Socialist Party in the Government recognizes. This is the summary note of the prior public consultation on the government's preliminary draft transparency law, and in this public note - which you will obviously have read - an independent monitoring body is recommended; the last point of all. [[shows a document]] The Government wants to control an independent oversight body. What is the independent control body of the Members' agenda here, Mr Navalpotro and members of the Socialist Party? The table? Is the Presidency the independent body? If the Government recognizes it for itself, we obviously want exactly the same thing. But, in addition, this discretionary disciplinary regime includes a proposal contrary to the Law of the High Charge of the General Administration of the State. The Minister of Justice can return to his post after two years, the Minister of Justice or any minister, according to the Law of the High Charge; according to the proposal of the Socialist Group, either of us must take four years to return, if we want to dedicate ourselves to institutional relations or if we are lawyers and represent - yes, Mr Secretary of State - a certain group. Minister Duque can pass, cesantía through, after two years, to an aerospace company that has received subsidies from his department, but a deputy who is vocal of the non-legislative Commission, for example, of Road Safety or Democratic Quality, cannot again exercise as a lawyer and represent a collective that wants to influence a law until four years later, obviously if it ceases. This is what the Socialist Group is proposing. By the way, gentlemen of the PSOE, so much about transparency, who proposed this to you? Because we all know about this, but it would be very good if they told the House who proposed this to them. That without going to value - the Secretary of State of Agenda 2030 is not - that they do not speak of the inverse lobby or the inverse revolving door. The Secretary of State for Agenda 2030 was the FARC's lawyer, and by chance now the FARC has received five hundred thousand euros for ex-combatants to be rehabilitated. [[Rumors]] What about the reverse revolving door? Why can mortgage-affected platform activists legislate on housing and don't have to wait four years? On the other hand, what the Socialist Party tells us is that everyone else - in the traditional left dichotomy: lobby good, lobby bad - we have to be four years out of professional activity. I conclude, Madam President, with the last appeal to each and every one of you to defend our work on civil society. If we do not defend our relationship and transmission belt work with organised civil society, there will be no one to do so.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-30-CD210930.u109	Mr Navarro, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-30-CD210930.u110	They support the proposal of the People's Group. Thank you, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-30-CD210930.u111	Thank you, Mr. Navarro. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Gutiérrez Vivas has the floor on behalf of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-30-CD210930.u112	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. The need to address regulation of the activities of so-called interest groups stems from both the existing regulatory vacuum and the undoubted role it has played in recent years in the parliamentary decision-making process. Therefore, to the extent that we advance in the establishment of guarantees, greater transparency and publicity in the development of our parliamentary work, and strengthen the instruments that can enable us to fight corruption more effectively, as welcome they are, despite the imperfections of their initiatives in this regard. In addition, we welcome the recommendation already made in 2018 by the Council of Europe, through the Group of States against Corruption, the famous Greek Group, suggesting to the national parliaments that they implement measures that favored transparency in the relations between their members and these interest groups. We are therefore debating today an amendment of the whole with an alternative text from the People's Group which, although it contains some positive elements, seems to us to be a text which is short and which is insufficient in other respects, losing the opportunity, we believe, to improve the original socialist text in a comprehensive way. Firstly, in terms of legislative technique, ladies and gentlemen, as far as its systematic location is concerned, it seems to us to be more correct to define this regulation of interest groups as a title of its own within the Rules of Procedure of the House, since it regulates a subject which we believe has sufficient scope and specificity for this, in view of the option of the alternative text which you have presented, which adds a new ninth chapter, within Title IV, and which refers to general operating provisions. We understand that regulating through one's own title makes all sense right now. The key concept of an interest group seems to be worded in a somewhat inconsistent way in its text. Article 107a, second paragraph, defines it as that natural or legal person who carries out organized actions to influence the Legislative Power, in defence of the common interests of its members. I do not think this is understood, because, how can a natural person act in defence of the common interests of its members? I don't think this is very clear. We believe that this concept of interest group does not solve the problem of excluding from the obligation to register those entities which, with a very limited size and scope of action, only come into contact with the parliamentary sphere on a sporadic basis, and to be interested in a very specific subject on a timely basis. Or is it that we want to treat lobbying, with all the obligations it would entail and all the skirmishes it entails to transfer to this House and its members its concerns, for example, to an association of neighbours of a small town that deals with the double of a national road that crosses the population? I don't think it has anything to do with it. We therefore understand that there must be differentiation between these interest groups. In your text there is also an ambiguous treatment of what you call representatives of interest groups. Article 107a.1 states, in its first paragraph, that representatives of interest groups who hold meetings with Members must be registered in the register. The text of the Socialist Parliamentary Group - already taken into consideration - clearly differentiated two figures, including both in the scope of application of the rule: the interest group itself and the representatives of the interest groups, who are the ones who carry out the activity of influence on behalf of others, by counterpart or without it: the famous companies of institutional representation or of public affairs. In Definitive, ladies and gentlemen, its text refers only to the representative of the interest group, that is, to whom by legal provision or its internal rules it has powers of representation of the group itself, but it omits - I do not know if deliberately, given the overwhelming presence of former politicians of all signs in them - the reference to public affairs consultants. Its text does not include the necessary exception to the obligation to register interest groups of those social organizations to which the Constitution itself recognizes a key role of social dialogue: political parties - if they do not have parliamentary representation -, trade unions, more representative business organizations or, for example, the administrations that make up the territorial organization of the State. Or do we also intend to treat the mayor of a small municipality who transfers Members of Parliament with a certain problem of their population as an interest group? Undoubtedly, there are interesting elements in your text, and I will also tell you. It seems to us that the obligation to communicate to the register the meetings or to transfer the documentation provided is a burden on the subject who is registered in the register, in the interest group, and not on the Member himself, who I believe we are already doing quite a lot in this Congress of Deputies all the ladies and gentlemen. We also agree with the simplification they propose of the sanctioning regime, which is absolutely outrageous in the text of the Socialist Group, and which I believe clearly must be corrected by means of amendments. In short, your text, ladies and gentlemen, although it may contain valuable contributions - we think so - that must be taken into account, and I believe that in the course of partial amendments we will do so, in this consideration of amendment by the whole of our parliamentary group we cannot vote in favour of its proposal. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-30-CD210930.u113	Thank you very much, Mr Gutiérrez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. Guille. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Rego Candaimil has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-30-CD210930.u114	Thank you, Madam President. This is about democracy and transparency. Look, tomorrow the president of the Spanish government and the president of the Galician government, Núñez Feijóo, will meet in the Illa da Toxa with entrepreneurs, including the president of Iberdrola or the president of Abanca. We do not know whether they are going to communicate the results of this meeting with transparency, we do not know whether they are going to talk about lowering the price of the electricity bill or about ceasing that policy of bank services cuts, especially with the removal of offices in the rural environment. What we do know is that the Government Delegation in Galicia banned a concentration convened by the Galega Inter-Union Confederation to protest the frequent and usual neoliberal recipes of that forum. In case anyone doesn't know, the Galega Interunion Confederation is the main union in Galicia. And yesterday the Civil Guard attacked people who participated in a rally convened by the Bureau for Linguistic Normalization, legal, communicated, authorized, which defended linguistic legality, defended that this island is called A Toxa and not La Toja, A Toxa, that's what it is called popular and legally. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, you should change course and criteria. It is regrettable that the carpet is being put on demonstrations by Spanish Nazis in Madrid, with racist and homophobic proclamations, and that concentrations of Galician workers are being banned from protesting against a neo-liberal coven. In relation to the subject that brings us here, the Galego Nationalist Block logically defends transparency in public management, but also that it must be to serve the interests of the social majority. That is why we reject all kinds of interference and pressure from economic interests on the public authorities. However, we doubt that this rule really serves to put an end to these pressures, to put an end to the pressure of economic powers, to legalize precisely the figure of the professional lobbyist, especially in a State in which some of the leading lobbyists are former ministers, former deputies and former senior officials of the politicians of traditional bipartisanism, especially because the great economic powers have other means and interlocutors, and both the People's Party and the Socialist Party have never bothered to regulate this situation in order to prohibit, for example, revolving doors. On the contrary, they benefited greatly from the participation in boards of large companies of former ministers and former government presidents. And the proposal of the People's Party does not change any of this, and it does not change one of the aspects that we find most worrying, because we understand that it directly attacks democracy, and it is dealing equally with social platforms and large companies. For example, it is to give the same treatment to an association of neighbours as to Repsol or Iberdrola; it is to consider that a social platform has to be registered in order to be able to meet with deputies. Look, I don't know who you're meeting with, the Galego Nationalist Block usually meets with platforms, with entities and social organizations that have among their objectives to look for the general interest and for the common good, and it's unfair and undemocratic to give them the same treatment. This directly undermines parliamentary work and democracy, and we therefore call on the PSOE and the PP to change this aspect because, as I say, it is clearly undemocratic. So, we think there's a lot to do. We are not going to vote in favour of the amendment by the People's Party because, as I say, it does not resolve aspects that we think are fundamental, but we are going to put forward amendments to correct these clearly damaging aspects, which we believe should be amended in the course of amendments. We hope that this will really happen, that there will be enough sensitivity to accept those proposals because, I insist, transparency, yes, but democracy, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-30-CD210930.u115	Thank you, Mr. Rego. Mr Bustamante Martín has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in common. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-30-CD210930.u116	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. Today we are talking about the power of certain economic groups, about the lobbies over governments such as the Ibex 35 in Spain, and we are even using terms like 'lobbycracy' to refer to the influence of these economic groups in political decision-making centres such as Washington, Brussels or Madrid. There was a paradigmatic case of political corruption, where Jack Abramoff, a lobbyist with good connections in the Capitol, was sentenced to prison for bribery of legislators, who offered trips, access to luxury sports events or jobs in exchange for political influence. Another of the most famous scandals was Randy 'Duke', who received major bribes from the military industry in exchange for government contracts. And being a commissioner, which is precisely one of the four possible crimes, is why the prosecution investigates Juan Carlos I, who walks, as we well know, hidden with his fortune and living as a king in Abu Dhabi. To try to avoid these bad examples, our parliamentary group voted in favour of the Socialist Party's proposal to regulate the action of interest groups, a reform of the Congressional Rules of Procedure, at the plenary session on 25 May. It is a proposal that has common elements with which it has already presented in the XII Legislature the Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos. We agree on issues such as the need to define interest groups, a public register of interest groups' activities, a conflict of interest office or a parliamentary footprint that follows up during the parliamentary process on the various changes or positions of parliamentary groups, a positive and urgent reform that strengthens transparency measures, because we want a Congress with glass walls, where the economic powers that do not run for election cannot determine the political positions of citizens' representatives. This is, therefore, a reform that would allow us to be at the level of other countries that are more advanced on this issue, although there is one element that worries us, which is the thin red line that some groups establish between participating democratically as an organized society and exerting influence. There must be a clear distinction, as has been said in previous interventions, between the activity, on the one hand, of economic groups, private companies with interests, lawyers' offices and, on the other, the activity of organizations such as trade unions, NGOs, platforms, associations and non-profit groups, which are motivated by the interest of building a better country with rights, and not by economic interests. We therefore believe that the amendment to the whole of the Group of the European People's Party affects the obstacles to citizen participation, and does not improve the regulation of lobbies on the initial proposal, since it makes it easier for lobbies to act in Congress and requires civil society organisations to be subject to this same regulatory regime, despite the fact that they are not for profit and despite the fact that they have fully recognized their rights to participation in the country's public affairs. That is why we are going to reject the amendment to the whole People's Party. We cannot put in the same bag collectives who defend rights, as, for example, today it has made Platform for the Right to a Dignity Housing with regard to a constitutional right recognized in article 47, with investment funds, for example, that have been speculating and doing business with this right. Another case to combat is the electricity market, designed with rules that favor oligopoly, constituted by the few and large companies that dominate the sector, mainly Iberdrola, Naturgas and Endesa. Do you know how many senior public officials have held boards for the administration of electricity? Sixty-two presidents, ministers or secretaries of state: thirty-six of the PP and twenty-six of the Socialist Party, who went from privatizing the public enterprises of the sector or designing the rules of the current electric market to collecting millionaire salaries, such as Felipe González, José María Aznar and all the great rudders of the Spanish economy, Miguel Boyer, Pedro Solbes, Luis de Guindos, Rodrigo Rato and Elena Salgado. In conclusion, we reject the text of the People's Party and understand that the proposals contained in the proposal can and should be improved during the process. We are ready to build a strong and robust reform that guarantees the opening of this House to citizens - because for us democracy is not to vote every four years, but that social groups, citizens and citizens, can participate in political decision-making -, encourages citizen participation and regulates and prevents the action of lobbyists and economic powers in decision-making. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-30-CD210930.u117	Thank you, Mr. Bustamante. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Gil Lázaro has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-30-CD210930.u118	Thank you very much, Madam President. At the plenary meeting on 25 May, on behalf of the VOX Group, I had the opportunity to express the reasons for our opposition to the proposal for a law amending the Rules of Procedure for the regulation of interest groups presented by the Socialist Group. I said in advance, so as to make it sufficiently clear what our general position of principle was, that this parliamentary group will always be in favour of any initiative that is presented with manifest legal solvency to strengthen the value, principle and procedures of transparency, as it will always be through any other instrument that will strengthen the prevention and fight against corruption. However, I pointed out that the text of the original proposal put forward by the Socialist Group clearly suffers from very serious approaches of principle, which, in our view, made it unworkable for the purpose it claimed to pursue. There was no general regulatory framework on which to make reference to the procedures and concepts that they then wanted to bring back, with the speciality of our institution, with parliamentary life. This was acknowledged by the explanatory statement itself and was also acknowledged by the Socialist Parliamentary Group when, at a meeting on 23 February of the Constitutional Commission, a non-legislative proposal was proposed and adopted urging the Government to regulate the status of lobbies in our system in order to make their impact on political life transparent. He also pointed out that the regulation proposed by the Socialist Parliamentary Group had a fundamental disorientation in the field of parliamentary law, since it ignored the bicameral reality of our model, so that it intended to introduce a reform in the Rules of Congress, completely disregarding the Senate and calling on it to do nothing, to do the same out of pure follow-up or to devise another type of regulation, when the legal basis in parliamentary law proper to such a regulation is, without a doubt, in the field of the General Courts. Of course, there is a problem for that, a problem which has already been very long over time, failure to comply with an express constitutional mandate, under which there must be - and does not exist, has not been - a regulation of the General Courts, and it seems that forty-three years already elapsed is sufficient time to have done so. The procedure, concepts and inspirations presented by the original proposal of the Socialist Parliamentary Group were farceous and, no doubt, complicated, bringing about a clear weakening of the function of representation, which is the essential part of the work of representatives of national sovereignty. Was it dealing equally with small neighbourhood associations and large public-law corporations? No, it did not treat them equally, because in an express final provision it excluded from that faracious procedure and from all the obligations established for the dialogue between civil society and the representatives of that same society in this House the large corporations of public and private law, trade unions, political parties, etc. In addition, it seemed to us that it was also a trapping regulation, since, taking advantage of the Pisuerga passing through Valladolid, it intended to introduce a substantial change in the regime of obligations and duties of Members, beyond the specific question which it intended to regulate, also establishing an absolutely banana sanctioning procedure, whereby any Member could denounce another Member, the Bureau of one Commission could denounce a Member, the Bureau of the House could denounce a Member and, at the end of the day, even the Secretary-General, a high official of this House, could also denounce a Member; an absolutely banana and Kafkian regime which would be the only thing to introduce would be serious dysfunctional in the internal coexistence of this House. Finally, it seemed to us that it was also deeply unconstitutional in power because all that regime of widespread punishment and complaint, in the end, ladies and gentlemen, had to be diluted in decisions of the Commission of the Statute of the Deputy, which was conceived as a kind of court of honor, a court of honor which is expressly prohibited, as your gentlemen know, in our Constitution. In short, today we have the alternative and replacement text presented by the People's Parliamentary Group, which is significantly better than the immense legal bodrio of the original proposal, because on the alternative text presented by the People's Parliamentary Group we can build with meaning and with legal rigour, we can inhabit, we can perfect. On the original text of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, basically, only the scissors can be inserted, because, as has been well recalled in this rostrum, what is intended is not to improve and give transparency to communication between civil society and Members, but an effect of absolute control over the activity of Members. By whom? By the dominant power. In short, ladies and gentlemen, if we are to do agitation, demagogy, sectarianism and propaganda, we already have the text of the original proposal. If it is to be built with legal rigour and at the service of the general interest, the alternative text is much better. That is why we shall vote in favour. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 5 p.m.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-30-CD210930.u119	Thank you, Mr. Gil. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Navalpotro Gómez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-30-CD210930.u120	Good afternoon. Today, the People's Group is dusting a proposal that has already brought to this House in 2017. Whether it is out of desidiy, out of lack of ideas - it is obvious that it is not your case - or more probably out of lack of ambition, you bring us a practically based initiative from which you have already presented five years ago. You know that there is a gap in the regulation of interest groups in this House, but you choose to cover that gap with a proposal of minimums, in front of ours, which we brought a few months ago, much more ambitious and much more complete. We therefore feel that this amendment is an attempt to dilute our initiative to reform the Rules of Procedure. In any case, as has been seen in the position shown by almost all the groups during the debate held last June, we agree on the need to adopt a reform to regulate Parliament's relationship with the interest groups. We, as we announced when our proposal was voted on, are not against the exercise of influence activity, as these groups play a fundamental role in complex societies such as ours by articulating different criteria and interests. It is our duty to listen and appreciate the proposals that are going to be affected by our decisions. But, in the same way, it is also our obligation that this relationship be established in terms of transparency and equal conditions for all. We do not doubt, therefore, the need for reform, but the scope and ambition of his party's proposal today. That is why we continue to bet on our initiative against its amendment. In our view, it is a better proposal and it addresses many more aspects. You are practically limited to the creation of a register of interest groups, the minimum necessary condition for such reform, but you do not go much further. We, however, tackle the relationship between this House and the lobbies in a more comprehensive way, as interest groups and parliamentarians are forced to do more. You, for example, do not distinguish between interest groups and representatives of interest groups, do not define what the influence activity consists of, do not include the obligation to report on whether or not the representation of interest groups is paid, and are far less specific than we are when defining the legislative footprint or transparency of the meetings of the members of the House with the interest groups and their representatives. He mentioned in his speech the possibility of the Bureau sanctioning interest groups, but in his proposal they also include that sanction. Leo, literally: 'The infringement of any of the above points will entail the cancellation of subscription in the register and the prohibition of access to the House during the period decided by the Bureau, depending on the gravity of the latter'. In short, you pick it up, although you do not define or grade violations or sanctions. Our initiative also makes clear who initiates this procedure, who instructs it, and what deadlines this instruction has. Can it be farragous? It may be, but it collects and explains a regime of sanctions that you elude. Similarly, they do not specify a sanctioning procedure for infringements committed by parliamentarians, and I believe that one of the main differences lies here. Let us think, for example, of the VOX Parliamentary Group, the group that is clearly opposed to this reform; let us think of its refusal to disclose data on the declaration of goods, activities or economic interests. They don't meet the rule. And what's wrong with them? Nothing now, but with your proposal, nothing would happen to them either. That is why the representative of VOX praised her in his speech. Our role as legislators commits us to seek agreements and consensus to increase laws that regulate almost all aspects of the reality of our country's society, to which we represent, and so what less to work to update and improve the rule that regulates our parliamentary activity. If many of our rules provide for sanctions against citizens' violations, we must assume that when parliamentarians commit violations of ours - in this case the Rules of Congress - characterized as violations, they cannot go unpunished, we are the first ones to comply with our duties. Well, with your amendment, if a Member or a group fails to comply with what has been said in this reform, it would have no consequence. Finally, our proposal also introduced, with the intention of avoiding the conflict of interests between the exercise of parliamentary activity and the subsequent activity of influence, a code of conduct that limited that members of the Courts could represent interest groups for a period of time since they left office. In short, your proposal is true that it represents a step forward, but it obliges very little. That is why we prefer our text to be the starting point in the forthcoming debate, and on this we are open to discussing, assessing and agreeing agreements during the Commission's proceedings, and I pledge to call you and to speak with you, Your Honor, but at the same time we appreciate your commitment to reach an agreement and to regulate for the first time the relationship between this House and the interest groups, a reform that can only be approved with the consensus of a large majority of Members. This will improve democratic quality among all of us and help to strengthen citizens' confidence in the mechanisms for the participation of our Parliament. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-30-CD210930.u121	Thank you very much, Mr. Navalpotro. [[Pausa.-A cleaning worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.-Mr. Gil Lázaro asks for the floor.]] Yes, Mr. Gil Lazarus?
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-30-CD210930.u122	Briefly, pursuant to article 71 and because a manifestation has been made that seriously affects the decorum of this group. Can I tell you what the demonstration is?
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-30-CD210930.u123	You say the demonstration.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-30-CD210930.u124	The concrete manifestation is that the Socialist Group's spokesman has said that the VOX Parliamentary Group refuses to formalise its declaration of activities and goods. As you are well aware, Madam President, it is an express, prior and necessary constitutional obligation to acquire the status of Member. All members of the VOX Parliamentary Group have made, have expressly formalized that statement, for the simple reason that, if not, they could not be sitting here. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-30-CD210930.u125	Thank you very much, Mr Gil. Ladies and gentlemen, we vote in two minutes. I remind you that you will only be able to vote from the seat that corresponds to you, identified with your name on the screen. I would also remind you that those Members who have been authorized to vote for the telematics procedure cannot do so from their seats. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-30-CD210930.u126	Ladies and gentlemen, we shall begin the voting. We started with non-law propositions. No bill by the Plural Parliamentary Group urging the Government to give effect to the reciprocity of all autonomous State televisions. We are voting in the terms of the compromise amendment tabled by the Socialist Parliamentary Group, the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal and the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Baldoví Roda. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 129 plus 221 telematics votes, 350; in favour, 96 plus 86 telematics votes, 182; against, 33 plus 120 telematics votes, 153; abstentions, 15 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-30-CD210930.u127	The non-legislative proposal was approved. - OF THE CITIZEN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, ON THE NON-COMMENCEMENT OF HONEYHOUSES CONDENATED BY THE TERRORIST BAND ETA. [[File number 162/000800]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-30-CD210930.u128	No bill by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group concerning the non-payment of tributes to convicts of the terrorist gang ETA. The vote was taken in accordance with the compromise amendment tabled by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress and the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 129 plus 221 telematics votes, 350; in favour, 33 plus 121 telematics votes, 154; against, 96 plus 97 telematics votes, 193; abstentions, 3 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-30-CD210930.u129	The non-legislative proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-30-CD210930.u130	Motions resulting from urgent appeals. Motion following urgent interpellation by the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress on the shortcomings in the professional management of the National Health System and the measures envisaged by the Government to resolve them. The vote was taken in accordance with the compromise amendment tabled by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, the VOX Parliamentary Group and the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 129 plus 221 telematics votes, 350; in favour, 33 plus 123 telematics votes, 156; against, 96 plus 92 telematics votes, 188; abstentions, 6 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-30-CD210930.u131	The motion for urgent questioning is rejected. - OF THE CITIZEN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, ON THE SITUATION OF MENTAL HEALTH IN SPAIN AS A RESULT OF THE COVID-19 PANDEMIA. [[File number 173/000095]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-30-CD210930.u132	Motion following urgent inquiry by the Citizens Parliamentary Group on the situation of mental health in Spain as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. We are voting in the terms of the compromise amendment tabled by the Socialist Parliamentary Group, the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, the Confederal Confederal Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and Citizens' Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 129 votes in favour, 220 votes in favour, 349 in favour, 128 votes in favour, 134 votes in favour, 262 abstentions, 1 vote in favour, 86 votes in favour, 87.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-30-CD210930.u133	The motion as a result of urgent inquiry was approved.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-30-CD210930.u134	Discussions on all legislative initiatives. Joint vote on amendments to the draft reform to article 49 of the Spanish Constitution submitted by the parliamentary groups VOX and Popular in Congress. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 129 votes, plus 220 telematics votes, 349; in favour, 33, plus 109 telematics votes, 142; against, 96, plus 109 telematics votes, 205; abstentions, 2 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-30-CD210930.u135	The amendments are rejected in their entirety.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-30-CD210930.u136	Vote on the amendment to the full refund of the draft law guaranteeing the purchasing power of pensions and other measures to strengthen the financial and social sustainability of the public pension system, presented by the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 129 votes, plus 219 telematics votes, 348; in favour, 33, plus 110 telematics votes, 143; against, 96, plus 98 telematics votes, 194; abstentions, 11 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-30-CD210930.u137	The amendment is rejected in its entirety.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-30-CD210930.u138	The plenary of the House has requested the final deliberation and vote of this bill. We shall proceed to vote on that request. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 129 votes, plus 219 telematics votes, 348; 128 votes in favour, plus 209 telematics votes, 337; 10 telematics votes, abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-30-CD210930.u139	The bill is now before the House. - PROPOSAL FOR THE ORGANIZATIONAL LAW FOR THE REFORM OF ORGANIZATIONAL LAW 10/1995 OF 23 NOVEMBER, OF THE CRIMINAL CODE FOR THE PROTECTION OF FREEDOM OF EXPRESSION. [[File number 122/000124]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-30-CD210930.u140	Vote on the amendment to the entire alternative text to the proposed organic law reforming the Organic Law 10/1995 of 23 November of the Criminal Code for the Protection of Freedom of Expression presented by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 129 votes, plus 219 telematics votes, 348; in favour, 33, plus 120 telematics votes, 153; against, 96, plus 97 telematics votes, 193; abstentions, 2 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-30-CD210930.u141	The amendment to the whole alternative text was rejected.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-30-CD210930.u142	Vote on the amendment to the entire alternative text to the proposed reform of the Rules of Procedure of the Congress of Deputies to incorporate a new Title XIV for the regulation of interest groups, presented by the People's Parliamentary Group in the Congress. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 129 plus 219 telematics votes, 348; in favour, 33 plus 115 telematics votes, 148; against, 96 plus 89 telematics votes, 185; abstentions, 15 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-30-CD210930.u143	The amendment to the whole alternative text was rejected. Very good afternoon, everyone. The meeting rose. It was three o'clock in the afternoon.
