ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-19-CD211019.u1	Very good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The meeting was called to order. We begin with the debate on the proposal for a law of the Republican Parliamentary Group on the prevention of sexual abuse in educational institutions. For the presentation of the initiative, Mrs Bassa Coll has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-19-CD211019.u2	What would you do if you told them that your seven-year-old son's class teacher is charged with sexual assault against another child in the class? Would you normally take your child to class or would you want the teacher to be out of class until the matter is cleared up? What would you do if your seven-year-old daughter accused your sexual assault teacher? Will you continue to take your daughter to school every day with absolute normality or would you try to keep the teacher away from your daughter? I tell them that I would refuse, of all people, that my son would go to school and that every day, day after day, I would have to endure this teacher. Moreover, it would seem to me terribly cruel and unjust that she, the victim of sexual assault, was treated as guilty and had to stop going to class, harming her right to education, and be separated from her school social circle. What would you do? Would you take your son to class normally? Would you risk creating a life-long trauma? For, yes, sexual assault creates trauma for life; and even more so if he is forced, after having been able to denounce the aggressor, to live daily with him. Will you really expose your children to such a situation? To those Members of this House who today intend to vote against this proposal, I would ask you to reflect. We're facing a moral dilemma. On the one hand, if the teacher is separated, his presumption of innocence is being questioned and he may be the victim of a great injustice if, finally, his innocence is proved. But, on the other hand, if the teacher is not separated and the teacher is again committing sexual abuse, not only is a crime and injustice being committed, which could have been avoided, but, in addition, a serious fault is being committed by the Administration by not actively protecting at least. In such a case, there is a collision between the right to the presumption of innocence of the teacher, and the rights to good image and honour, and the rights of minors. From our point of view, and hence the presentation of this proposal for a law, the protection of the child is always a superior good, i.e., first in relation to the teacher's right, until justice, of course, gives judgment. But beyond this, separating the teacher can also be a protection mechanism for the teacher himself, because the tension that generates a case like this can be of such magnitude that the teacher himself can be harassed by families and even suffer situations of violence by some of them. We therefore propose the maintenance of basic wages and family allowances per dependent child during the interim suspension and pending judgement. Not in vain, the purpose of this temporary suspension is not to punish the teacher, but to protect the minor while the judge determines his guilt or not. It is true that the investigating court may take precautionary measures against the person complained of and remove him from teaching, but the time between the knowledge of the facts and the adoption of the precautionary measure by the court may be extended for weeks, as you know very well. So the question is what's going on at school these weeks. Are they aware of the tension and aggressiveness that can occur? Or, worse still, imagine, as has sometimes happened, that the court decides not to take any precautionary measures. In Catalan law, there are legal mechanisms, such as reassignment of functions or even the removal of functions, but they are limited to six months, because of EBEP. [[Rumors]] If we take into account the judicial collapse, it is very likely that in these six months there will still be no judicial sentence for the professor to return to his post. Moreover, as in a standard judicial procedure the sentence may take two or three years... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-19-CD211019.u3	Excuse me, Mrs. Bassa. I'm going to ask for some silence, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-19-CD211019.u4	...the teacher would be more time in class than suspended, with the consequent problem for the center, for the families and for the competent educational authorities. That is why we propose that the competent educational authorities themselves have the power to remove the teacher accused of sexual abuse or assault until there is a final sentence. Authority doesn't mean it's imperative. It must assess the case and depend on the opinion of the educational community, the families, the situation of the child, the explanations given by the accused, etc. We can also reach agreements, assigning functions or separating the teacher from contact with minors, if it seems appropriate for both families and the victim himself, until there is a final sentence. The proposed law also adds the amendment to the Workers' Statute so that, in the same way that the teacher can be separated from minors in schools, other professionals whose usual work is with minors, such as summer camp monitors or pediatricians, can also be separated. We also propose an amendment to the EBEP, the Basic Statute of the Public Employee, to extend the limitation period for misconduct related to conduct that violates freedom and sexual compensation. We propose - this point is consistent with the amendment made to the Criminal Code - that the limitation period should begin to count when the alleged victim reaches the age of 30. Not in vain have there been several cases of adults who in recent years have dared to report sexual abuse or assault when they were children. Thanks to breaking this silence other people have dared to take the step. In fact, this proposal is consistent with the Organic Law on the Legal Protection of Minors, which in article 13.5 states that it is a requirement for access to or exercise of professions, occupations or activities involving habitual contact with minors who have not been convicted of offences against freedom and sexual identity. It also proposes the creation of a fund from the State General Budgets to finance training and prevention for the competent administrations, because it is with training and prevention that we will achieve schools free of violence. Finally, it should be noted that the present proposal for a law is the result of the identification of the problem by the Department of Education of the Government of the Government of the Government of Catalonia, which, in addressing the prevention of sexual abuse and assault in educational institutions, has seen that it cannot remove a teacher accused of these crimes if the state legislation is not amended. In this sense, the Parliament of Catalonia has adopted, almost unanimously, a motion in which it defended what we are debating here today, and it did so because we all agree that sexual abuse is abuse of power and that it happens in the classroom, because the classrooms are the reflection of society, because the young people have already raised their voices, because we value all the people who have broken the silence, because we support the teacher, who has overcome the fears, and, above all, because we want the judiciary and the administration to coordinate quickly when there is a complaint of sexual abuse. At the same time, I must admit that, frankly, it does not make me any grace to defend this initiative here today. And you know why? Because I am Catalan and, being Catalan, I would like not to have to come to Madrid to ask for legislative amendments so that the Generalitat can act. [[a Member of Parliament: Hala!]] [[Applauds.-Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-19-CD211019.u5	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-19-CD211019.u6	In an independent Catalonia what we propose here today would already be law; a law that would forever break the complicit silence of cowards. Zero tolerance for sexual violence. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-19-CD211019.u7	Thank you, Mrs. Bassa. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group to set positions.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-19-CD211019.u8	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The Republican Parliamentary Group proposes that consideration be given to a proposal for a law on the prevention of sexual abuse in educational establishments. This is a matter which, as a matter of concern, must always be discussed, which must always be discussed and which must be combated. Society, its representatives and public institutions must never turn our backs on a minor or a minor subject of abuse, who in many cases live his tragedy in silence for fear of reprisals and accept victimization, which is a very damaging consequence for the development of his personality. However, the point of departure to which the Republican Group, registered at the Congress of Deputies on 12 March this year, invites us with this text has been overtaken by the adoption in the General Courts and the corresponding entry into force of two legislative texts that affect policies against sexual abuse of minors. Thus, since January of this year 2021, the Lomlou, the so-called Celaá law, which, in passing, we consider unconstitutional in this Chamber; in fact, I am a signatory to one of the appeals that was admitted to the Constitutional Court last March. La Lomlou is a compendium of sectarian measures, of measures that attack the freedom of parents to choose the educational model of their children, that corner Spanish as an educational vehicle language and that mark the concerted education, making it stagger. However, there are a number of measures in this law which highlight the struggle against all actions that threaten or threaten school coexistence and respect in the educational sphere, reinforcing the content of the previous major educational norm, the LOE, which was devoted to these aspects, in such a way that principles such as education for coexistence, respect, conflict prevention and peaceful resolution, as well as non-violence in all areas of personal, family and social life, and in particular prevention of school harassment and cyber-bullying, were extended or included in order to help the student recognize and respond to all forms of abuse, sexual abuse, violence or discrimination. Ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the legislative proposal defended by Mrs Bassa, the Organic Law 8/2021 of 4 June on comprehensive protection of children and adolescents from violence was also adopted less than five months ago, including the titles and sections of which are developed various measures for the prevention and early detection of violence in educational establishments and incorporate the need for protocols for action against signs of abuse and ill-treatment, bullying, cyberbullying, sexual harassment, gender violence, domestic violence, suicide, self-injury and any other form of violence. Thus it is reflected in the preamble of this law, and hence the development of protocols of action against signs of abuse and ill-treatment, school harassment, cyberbullying, harassment, etc. In fact, together with the existence of a person responsible for the welfare and protection of all educational establishments, the law establishes in the first of its five chapters a strategy for the eradication of violence against children and adolescents, involving all levels of government and involving civil society through associations and in all settings, specifically to the educational establishments to which the title and the text presented to us by the Republican Group refers, although this is in keeping with the abuses perpetrated by personnel at the service of the educational community and aims to deepen changes and changes affecting other regulations, such as the Law on the Basic Status of the Public Employee and the Law on the Status of Workers. Ladies and gentlemen, abuses against our children exist and, therefore, the effort to promote initiatives in this regard cannot be overturned and, above all, not to reduce concerns about the prevention and detection of such undesirable behaviours against our children who are perpetrated in educational establishments or in other spaces, such as sports centres. If some of our emerging sports figures have been abused in concentrations perpetrated by first-level coaches or specialists and under the auspices of federations, how can we not fear similar behaviours in the educational field throughout the national territory, where there are 8 million non-university students in more than 34,000 educational institutions. It comes to the case to quote the strong judgment 495/2019, of 17 October, in the case of sexual abuse to a student of an Asturian school, in Avilés specifically, in which the Supreme Court emphasizes the need to introduce in schools protocols for the detection of sexual abuse of minors. The Government and Governments, because this is also the responsibility of the autonomous, must provide the means and resources for educational centres and spaces to be safe and free from any form of violence. Because in this irrevocable and permanent goal of preventing and eradicating all forms of violence, the attitude of democratic administrations and institutions to abuse is also valued. How can we not denounce in this rostrum the blockade of the entire autonomous parliamentary left to any investigation into the minors protected in the Mallorcan IMAS? The European Union itself agreed a few days ago to send a fact-finding mission to the Balearic Islands. [[Applauds]] The entire block left in the Balearic Islands covers the action of the Balearic Government with regard to sexual abuse of minors protected by a public institution. [[Applauds]] Finally, I would like to highlight the existence in the Congress of the Deputies of the Committee on the Rights of the Child and Adolescents, which precisely presides over a Member of the Republican Left of Catalonia, Mrs Pujol iFarré, in which different representatives have reported the situation that is of concern in relation to sexual abuse of minors and practically all their testimonies - all - invite us to deepen in sharp and unequivocal actions against those who take advantage of physical, intellectual, parental, moral or religious superiority to abuse a minor or a minor. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-19-CD211019.u9	Thank you very much, Mr Martínez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Parliamentary Group Euskal Herria Bildu, I have the floor, Mrs Pozueta Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-19-CD211019.u10	Thank you, Madam President. Get out of the way. The Republican Group brings to this House for consideration a proposal for a law, which we voted in the affirmative. We share the general philosophy of this proposed law, which is the prevention of sexual abuse in educational establishments, and the effective response to situations that occur more commonly than we think. The proposed legislative changes can make it possible for safe schools to exist with regard to sexual experience, and I would like to stand on this concept to develop its definition. A secure school provides tools to the educational community that conforms it to care for its members. We are talking about children, education and administration professionals, educational support and families. In addition to caring, it puts the means for that community to be formed in something as human and everyday as the experience of sexuality. From respect for the evolutionary moment of the members of the community, speaking, sharing, expressing and educating in sexuality will provide tools both for the grateful experience of sexuality and for being able to react when a non-grateful experience results from an abuse has occurred. In itself, we are talking about breaking with silence, recognizing and protecting or, if you prefer, prevention. The Council of Europe Convention for the Protection of Children from Sexual Exploitation and Abuse, ratified in Spain in 2007, includes as a preventive measure the guarantee that persons who maintain regular contact with children - education, health, social protection, justice and law enforcement, as well as in the areas of sport, culture and leisure, have guaranteed and adequate knowledge about the sexual exploitation and abuse of children, the means to detect them and the possibility of communicating to the services responsible for the protection of children any case in which there are substantial suspicions that a child is being subjected to exploitation or abuse. This bill takes one more step to prevent the revictimization that may exist if the person who allegedly committed the abuse maintains the relationship with the educational environment of the child who has suffered it, in addition to avoiding that, in the case of a final sentence, these persons may return to work in spaces in which they would again be in contact with minors. For years, the solution to complaints of abuse by children and families has been the denial of the institutions in which the abuse was committed. The silence and sometimes the transfer of the person who committed them to another unchecked educational environment with total impunity are a breeding ground for continuing acts against the sexuality of thousands of girls and boys. Has not what has happened for many years in the centers of the Catholic Church taught us to deal with the issue with reality and courage? Last week we raised in the debate on the law of sexual freedom that we do not defend the punitiveism that arises when dealing with crimes of a sexual nature. Today we continue to defend this also with the issue that brings us. More years of conviction and greater punishment are not the solution for crimes of a sexual nature. We are talking about desires, that we must educate them so that their management does not invade the sexual freedom of any person, whether minor or adult. Education and, where appropriate, therapeutic approach can be part of the solution, if not all. I therefore call again for comprehensive sex education for education professionals, for boys and girls, for adolescents and for families, and for a protocol to prevent and act against child sexual abuse, which is very important and, at present, extremely necessary in educational institutions and which very few carry out. Throughout the process of the law, we will present our contributions through amendments. Mila esker.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-19-CD211019.u11	Thank you very much, Mrs. Pozueta. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Agirretxea Urresti has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-19-CD211019.u12	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, everyone. He abused me for a whole year in the photography room when I was my tutor in 5th EGB. He turned off the light, stood right behind me and jerked me off. I remember his voice whispering in my ear. I was nine years old. When I was back in class, I almost always cried for the first few minutes. He locked me in a class, turned off the light, pulled the scarf out of my hair, cornered me against the board, asked me insistently about the sexuality agenda and, after telling me how early I was and how developed I was, touched a chest. They are real and cruel testimonies of boys and girls who suffered sexual abuse in their childhood. As has already been said here, the misfortune of the people who suffered from these abuses is that it has no remedy, that it is irreversible, and anything that can be done will never alleviate the pain and trauma that they are going to suffer for life. We could say that, fortunately, these cases have been minority within the generality of the education system, but they have happened and only one of the cases, one of these disgusting cases, is enough for action to be taken. But there's something worse than memory and trauma going to haunt these people all their lives, and it's not being able to tell at the time and, even worse, not being believed. How many other cases have happened like the ones I mentioned? How many other cases will have been silenced? We will never know, but the testimonies we have and the existing findings are sufficient for us to react as a Legislative Power, which we are, in addition to being citizens, which is the first thing that should move us in this situation. School is a place of values, a place of coexistence, a place of respect, a place of friendship. It can never be a place of fear, and the people who have spoken the first thing they had was fear. Last week we discussed the law of sexual freedom and talked about the fear that many women, girls or girls suffer when they feel alone, when they have to go on a bus or when they have to go home at night, that fear that can only be understood by people who suffer from it. Well, this is something like that. The school must be precisely a refuge, a place of protection, but it can never be a place to house people who use their position of power to commit unspeakable crimes. Therefore, before this thesis - and the proposer has explained it - are the presumption of innocence and the rights of that minor. The purpose of this law is to prevent that from happening. Is there enough legislation? Yes, there is legislation, fortunately, so that all these things do not happen, but this bill that brings us Republican Left is precisely for when they happen. Our goal should be that, thanks to the work of educators, that does not happen, that we have an education enough to make that not fit, but unfortunately happens and we have to take action for when it happens, and this is what brings us here today. The work of an educator is a very delicate work and these things must surely be handled with great sensitivity. They propose a proposal for a law which is basically a small amendment to the different existing legislation, a modification which has important points - which have already been mentioned -: on the one hand, there is an increase in what we could call punishment and, on the other hand, there is an approach to a new coordination system. There is an amendment to the Basic Staff Regulations so that the statute of limitations will be from when the minor turns thirty years old or another, that we will already discuss, because that is not the most important thing - also for the suspension of interim measures, that from six to eight months, and the loss of official status when there has already been a ruling. It also amends the Workers' Statute, and there are two additional provisions, one of which concerns a training fund which, from a competitive perspective, we believe is pushing the limit of the State's powers in this area. Perhaps the autonomous communities - I think some of them - are able, without the need for a state fund, to create their own funds in this area, although we fully agree on what the objective should be. It should also be borne in mind that there is an approach to drawing up a protocol. It has been said here by my predecessor that there must be prevention protocols. Well, look, the Basque Government here is fighting: 'Protocol of prevention and action in the educational field in the face of situations of possible protection and abuse, harassment and sexual abuse of children and adolescents and of collaboration and coordination between the educational sphere and the actors involved in the protection of the underage person'. [[shows a document]] I guess it's something you're asking for, isn't it? Well, in Euskadi we have him and he's practicing. And it is true that certain legislative amendments that you propose, for example, would make things very clear when it comes to having to act, because, after all, some communities, such as the Euskadi, have acted on the basis of their best intention and with the collaboration between different institutions. Therefore, Mrs Bassa, as I do not have any more time, all I have to say is that we will vote in favour of the inclusion and that we will study later, at the stage of amendments, whether these or others are the changes that are needed and the details to improve and achieve the object of this very fundamental law, that these very terrible crimes disappear from the school and from the community. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-19-CD211019.u13	Thank you very much, Mr Agirretxea. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, Mrs Giménez Giménez.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-19-CD211019.u14	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will start my speech by referring to the fact that Mrs Bassa, the proposer of this legislation, has started her speech by explaining the objective - which I share - of what is the need to promote this matter, but the truth is that I find it quite inappropriate and unfortunate that you should take advantage of this forum and this proposal for a law to make a separatist argument. Because, Your Honor, all the boys and girls in our country need us to deal with sexual abuse in schools, all the boys and girls, live where they live. [[Applauds]] Therefore, it is already advanced that this proposal addresses one of the issues on which Citizens have worked most. In my group we have developed an intense activity aimed at protecting the physical and moral integrity of minors, as we have already done in our work in the Children's Act and as we hope to do in this proposal. This proposal deepens the defence and protection of our children in educational institutions, focusing on preventing them from being cared for or related to persons who have been convicted of an offence against sexual freedom, so the reform we are debating today is in line with the work we do in the Children and Adolescents Act, which was finally adopted only a few months ago. This law, in fact, already fulfils the requirement of not having been convicted of crimes against sexual freedom and treats those professionals who have regular contact with minors. The law, in article 57, already speaks of this impossibility of developing his position or profession, both for access and exercise, so the law we are debating today goes in line with the Children's Act. We also believe that, although this law speaks of abuse and of preventing sexual abuse in educational establishments - which is as it is entitled - its application will be wider, since there are different groups of professionals who, without being teachers, develop professional activity in educational establishments and have contact with minors. We can mention those who work in unaccompanied minors'centres, who take care of them, also children's physiotherapists, pediatricians or other professionals not necessarily related to education. I also take this opportunity to recall that it is clear that we must take all necessary measures to protect the youngest in our society from unwanted conduct. The best interests of the child are one of the legal assets that we must protect most zealously; after all, that of the child is the most vulnerable group of all in the face of economic situations, cultural situations and also violence. For this reason, in Citizens we believe that it is necessary for public administrations that have competence in the development of the Children's Act to be put in place and to do so in its entirety, because the Children's Act has really been a great achievement in our country. We have developed a State framework with comprehensive measures to guarantee the fundamental rights of children and adolescents and need to be developed. Our obligation and obligation of the Government is for this legislation to develop. We ask the Government to develop the amendment of the Organic Statute of the Ministry of Public Prosecutions, as established by law, so that there is a specialization of the Office of the Public Prosecutor in the field of violence against children and adolescents. Progress must be made in the procedures for determining age and ensuring that it is done in a secure manner, in compliance with international obligations in this area. The monitoring committee established by the legislation itself must also be set up in order to see its implementation, the legal and economic implications and to assess the impact of this legislation. We therefore believe that this legislation is a great milestone, a great triumph for society as a whole. However, that effort will be in vain if we do not put it into practice. We must therefore be aware of the need to implement the provisions of the Children's Act. I conclude by making a reference to the text that is being proposed to us today. Consideration already includes provisions established by the Children's Act itself for the protection of minors from offences that compromise their physical and moral integrity as a result of crimes against sexual freedom. In this regard, the law already provides that educational administrations become obliged to promote protocols for action against sexual harassment. This series of protocols must be adopted in the centres for the protection of minors and specific measures must be taken to deal with cases of sexual exploitation and trafficking in minors subject to protection. It is therefore very clear that the Liberals will support it by taking into account this proposal as a good complement to the Children's Act, a proposal in which we will work to adjust, fine-tune and improve everything that is feasible. We therefore believe that we are not taking any steps back in the defence of minors, but we are taking steps forward and that is where they are going to find our parliamentary group. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-19-CD211019.u15	Thank you very much, Mrs Giménez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, first of all, Mrs Sabanes Nadal has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-19-CD211019.u16	Thank you, President. Our group is going to vote in favour of this initiative presented today by Esquerra Republicana because from More Country-Greens-Equo we will always be in favour of measures that provide greater protection for children and, in particular, those measures that point to or place children as subjects of law. This is a very important consideration for us. It is true that the process of this initiative coincides with the deployment of the Child Protection Act, one of the laws with the highest consensus in this legislature, despite the fact that it has been appealed to the Constitutional Court by the extreme right. It has certainly been resorted to because, in essence, there is a denial of the consideration of subjects of right to boys and girls. Therefore, as subjects of law, the obligation of the State and administrations is to generate public policies and prevention policies. As I said, the initiative presented here today is, according to our opinion, complementary, improves protection and incorporates - and this is important - in the project that today presents a greater demand and more control in the field of school work for public administrations, institutions and employees. Therefore, as was raised in the presentation, this is a crucial issue when it comes to putting in place the protection framework. During the process of the Children's Act we work and agree on many amendments with Esquerra in the law, as in the Education Act, to improve both protection and affective-sexual education, which, in our view, is an indispensable barrier to the prevention of sexual abuse, so that it does not occur. It is true that the approach is what we do once things are happening, even if someone in this House thinks that prevention through affective-sexual education is indoctrination. That is why we are in favour of all States being obliged to deploy, in the best conditions, protection laws and prevention laws that guarantee the rights of children as subjects of law, as set out in the Convention on the Rights of Children. That is why we will not only be voting in favour, but we will be working through the process to achieve all the necessary improvements. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-19-CD211019.u17	Thank you very much, Mrs. Sabanes. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Parliamentary Group itself, Mr Miquel i Valentí has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-19-CD211019.u18	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, in recent years we have known too many, too many cases of sexual abuse in educational establishments and each of these cases, which narrowed our hearts a little further, served to uncover other cases in the same centres, with the same teachers and with the same teachers exercising abuses and crimes against the sexual freedom of children and adolescents. In fact, with data from the same Ministry of the Interior, one in two complaints is for offences against the sexual freedom of children under the age of sixteen. I believe that this obliges us to develop more legislation, to limit a little more all the legislation that we already had and that we have accumulated over these years to protect the right of the children of this country. Because, as Mrs Basa said in her speech, sexual abuse, whether or not in educational institutions, has consequences for children. They have them about the present, about how they develop their affective relationships with their families, with their friends, with their teachers, and they also have them in their school performance; but they also have consequences in their future, since it is not easy to digest a situation like this. We have seen this, we have heard cases and the Child and Adolescent Protection Act also addresses sexual freedom abuses and crimes from this perspective. I have already said that, since it could not be otherwise, we are going to vote in favour of acceptance through this initiative. We know that, for reasons which have nothing to do with the proposing group, the timetable has been that there are some things that we will have to adjust in the period of amendments, when this initiative is accepted in the process, and we will do so. We are concerned about the balance between the presumption of innocence and the rights and protection of children and adolescents. We like the approach that the proposing group makes to this issue, the balance between children's rights and the presumption of innocence, with which we will work in this same line. We share the meaning of the text and we will do so. Ladies and gentlemen, I think it is good news that it is in addition to all the work that this House has done on children's rights, starting with the creation of the Commission for the Protection of the Rights of Children and Adolescents; with the law that we passed a few months ago in this House, and so many pages and texts that have been adopted, that have been voted on and discussed to protect children's rights, with the support always of entities and platforms that help us from outside, support us and facilitate our work. As I have already said, ladies and gentlemen, we will support the process of this initiative and we hope to be able to discuss and welcome its adoption as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-19-CD211019.u19	Thank you very much, Mr. Miquel. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Mena Arca has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-19-CD211019.u20	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, everyone and everyone. I would like, sincerely, for us to be able to address today's debate on the Republican Left from the rigour, from unanimity and also from the political will to put an end to sexual abuse in the educational sphere. The seriousness of the subject must compel us all and all present to flee from the cries, insults and also from the partisan interests that unfortunately some are accustomed to accomplish. So the importance of the debate is clearly evident. According to the latest study commissioned by the Government Delegation against Gender Violence and carried out by the Themis Association of Women Jurists, three out of four attacks occur in the family environment and in schools, one out of every four performing recreational or sports activities. Of all complaints, only 4.24% come from educational centres, social or health services or reception centres, probably due to the lack of protocols and training for professionals to deal with sexual abuse. 98% of the aggressors are men, 72% of the victims are girls and only 25% report the same day. Another frightening fact is that almost 65% of the assaults are repeated on more than one occasion and on a continuous basis and, instead, the professional disqualification of those in direct contact with minors for convicted persons, which is what Squerra Republicana proposes, has not been applied in 74% of the convictions. I give all this information because it is necessary to show that we are facing a serious problem, an issue that requires unity, ladies and gentlemen. Unity and will to protect and prevent. The right wing will probably now come out to say that child abuse is also a gender ideology or a further part of the consensus is progressing, and they are once again mistaken. This is a matter of state and, as such, this Parliament and this coalition government are legislating to eradicate these intolerable situations. I give you three examples. One, the Organic Act on the Protection of Children and Adolescents, which provides for the management of educational establishments to supervise the recruitment of staff and the control of compulsory certificates, provides for measures such as increasing the limitation period to be calculated from the age of 30 and also providing the centres with a position of coordinator for the welfare and protection of the child. Two, the Organic Law on Sexual Freedom, which provides for a specialized route of access to justice following the model of the Children's House. And three, Lomlou, where emotional-sexual and reproductive education is included in the formal contents of the education system. But let me stop at this last point. The worst problem of sexual abuse of minors is secrecy and the taboo element surrounding it. The abuser manipulates the little ones, plays with their feelings, with their fears and with their innocence. On most occasions, minors are not even aware that they are being subjected to sexual abuse. Lack of knowledge and fear prevent them from reporting. That is why it is so important to introduce emotional-sexual training in the centers, to inform them of their rights, to empower us so that they can report if the case comes. In Spain, we have been lagging behind for years and some institutions, rather than meeting the challenge, are deeply disappointed. This has been the case, for example, of the judge who ordered the withdrawal of various LGTBI books donated to institutes by the Castellón City Council. If I wasn't dramatic, ladies and gentlemen, I'd be slick. Instead of promoting emotional-sexual education, some judges pursue and veto it, a behavior more typical of the Holy Inquisition than of a modern and progressive country. I am concerned, as I said at the beginning, that there is no consensus and unity on these laws among all the political forces, that the right-wing vote against or that it goes directly to the Constitutional Court - it would not be the first time, because they have already done so, for example, with the law on homosexual marriages - proving that they always go against the times and against the common sense as well. [[Applauds]] I recognize that I have a doubt about the Republican Left proposal, and that is that you focus responsibility on the worker, on the person who is in contact with the minor - and, of course, has it - but the responsibility we have to demand must go much further. You say absolutely nothing of the responsibility of the Church or of the schools agreed on this subject. We are missing some article which stipulates that those religious concerted schools which have not acted properly in cases of sexual abuse must be withdrawn, for example, the educational concert because it is also part of the responsibility of these schools. [[Applauds]] Spain is also one of the few countries in Europe in which the Church is not investigating cases of pederasty and abuse of minors within her, when they would have to be the main ones interested in clarifying this situation. In France it has been the Episcopal Conference itself that has initiated research; it is the ideal model. In Ireland it has been done by the Government, in Belgium it has been the Parliament and in Chile it is done directly by the Office of the Prosecutor. In Spain no institution is doing so. The Church has, ladies and gentlemen, a historical responsibility on this issue too, so, out of Christian decency, the Spanish Episcopal Conference should initiate an investigation, as should the Government, this Congress and the Prosecutor's Office. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-19-CD211019.u21	Thank you, Mr. Mena. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Trias Gil has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-19-CD211019.u22	Mrs Bassa, during your speech you have regretted being Catalan and having to come to the General Courts to pass laws that the Catalan Generality can apply. From VOX we encourage you to move from laments to actions, abandon the seat and stop charging all Spaniards ; 115,000 euros that you charge from all Spaniards thanks to the coup d'état that your sister gave in Catalonia. [[applause]] Do you, then, give up the charge from all the Spaniards? Firm hand and forceful actions for all those who sexually abuse minors, of nigrán dolos and degrading themselves. There are no half inks here. I imagine that Esquerra presents this proposition precisely because of the number of cases that sprinkle their ranks. A quick Internet browsing gives these results in recent years: '27 years in prison for an Esquerra discharge for sexual harassment of 13 minors'; 2017. [[Shows a sheet with the headline of a news and a photograph]] 2020: 'ERC hid a case of sexual harassment. The head of the Foreign Office was suspended on 24 January and Alfred Bosch wanted to put it back.' [[Show another sheet with the headline of one news and another photograph]] 'The sex scandals within Catalan independence. In the last year -2020 - there have been four resignations of members of Esquerra, JpC and CUP' for child abuse. [[Show another sheet with the headline of one news and another photograph.-Applause]] Children are the most beautiful thing in our society, in our world. Looking at a child, forming him or her, living with them, contagious with his or her clean and pure gaze on reality is the greatest gift we can have. It is known who loves them and who lets himself be infected by their tenderness, by the freshness of their gaze, by their capacity for regeneration, by the intensity with which they live the present moment as if all reality were contained there. Also joy, innocence and simplicity are unique and unrepeatable characteristics of childhood, attributes that we as public servants, adults, must protect and preserve without cracks. This proposal for a law, although it speaks in the title of sexual abuse in educational establishments, refers continuously to workers whose activity involves continuous contact with minors, so it also applies to foster care. We agree on what: constancy in the face of crimes of sexual abuse of minors. Another thing is how. In VOX, from the beginning of the Legislature, we have been reporting sexual abuse to minors, who for life destroy those who suffer them, leaving irreparable wounds. An example is the scandalous case of minors who are prostituted in Baleares guardianship centres, a case that is still unresolved. [[Applauds]] In the face of this scandal, even the Committee on Petitions of the European Parliament asked the then Vice-President of the Government, Pablo Iglesias, the Minister of the Interior, the unworthy Marlaska, as well as the Social Affairs Adviser of the Balearic Government. All unsuccessful, until in October 2020 the Office of the Prosecutor for Minors of the Balearic Islands managed to file the proceedings of the investigation it initiated on its own initiative, despite the seriousness of the facts. In VOX, in addition to repeated questions and interventions in this House on this issue, we have carried out many actions since the beginning of our parliamentary term. In February 2020, VOX reported that the Mallorcan Institute of Social Affairs was aware of the events that were taking place. Mr VOX asked the European Parliament for a special mission and a commission of inquiry into cases of sexual exploitation in the Balearic Islands. In June 2021 we called for the creation of a commission of inquiry into these events in Congress. In September 2021, VOX Baleares brought all these facts to the attention of the Prosecutor's Office. More than two years and the matter remains unresolved because the competent administrations are not interested in it. VOX is fighting in all areas - political, judicial and social, at national and European level - in defense of these victims and of all minors who are victims of sexual abuse. [[Applauds]] We need to stop armoring administrations and start protecting real children. This proposal also provides for training in the prevention of crimes against freedom and sexual indemnity, creating nothing less than a fund under the State General Budgets for the Autonomous Communities. Are they really offering us training to tell workers who are in regular contact with minors that they should not sexually abuse them? Ladies and gentlemen, it sounds like a joke. However, trying to understand their motivations, I imagine that this training is in line - as you have already said - with Herod's law, the law of supposed protection of children recently passed. Herod's law systematically repeats terms such as prevention, awareness or early detection. And so, under the protection of diversity and protection from violence, it is introduced in the training of professionals in contact with lesser ideas and norms that have to do with - and I literally read - the impact of gender roles and stereotypes on the violence suffered by children and adolescents. But what are you going to teach them, ladies and gentlemen, ideological rubbish like this that has had to be removed from a centre of Castellón by court order this past Friday? [[shows a sheet with a photograph]] The raw reality is that we are agreeing that content should be given in schools for twelve-year-olds who would lack the decorum of this House to read them out loud in the Chamber and most of you would be shocked. [[Applauds]] Then, if you want, I'll hand them the sheets because I've brought copies for everyone. [[Applauds]] These gender policies degenerate in cases like the one we read in the press two days ago about the president of the United States: 'Biden calls a terrorist a father whose daughter was raped in school by a transsexual. The policy of gender self-determination in a school district in Virginia allowed a teenager with a skirt to rape two minors in the toilets.' [[Show another sheet with another photograph]] That is, under gender self-determination policies, the rapist is protected and the father who legitimately defends his daughter is accused.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-19-CD211019.u23	Mrs. Trias, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-19-CD211019.u24	Spanish, this is our near future as we don't stop this. We think that the beauty of love must be what moves us and not the fear of horror. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-19-CD211019.u25	Thank you very much, Mrs. Trias. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, I have the floor, Mrs Álvarez Fanjul. Mrs ÁLVAREZ FANJUL: Thank you, President. Good afternoon. Mrs Bassa, independent Catalonia does not exist, let alone when we are talking about sexual harassment of minors. Before we begin to discuss the most important aspects of this bill, I would like to recall the concept of violence against children and adolescents that we adopted in this House just a few months ago. It is laid down in Article 1(2) of the Organic Law on the Comprehensive Protection of Children and Adolescents from Violence and is defined as any act, omission or negligent treatment which deprives minors of their rights and well-being, which threatens or interferes with their orderly physical, psychological or social development, regardless of their form of commission, including the realization through information and communication technologies, especially digital violence. Thus, it is understood that, as its second paragraph adds, neglect or negligent treatment, exploitation, including sexual violence, school harassment and sexual harassment is included. I bring these questions for a simple reason, ladies and gentlemen, because it is surprising that the content of this proposed law that we are considering today was not included in the organic law that we passed on 4 June; a new law that already regulates aspects of the proposed law that the Republican Parliamentary Group brings to this House today. Its chapter IV, on education, develops various measures for the prevention and early detection of violence in educational establishments. Article 18 already refers to information duties of educational establishments and residential establishments. Article 20(2) already provides for protection and safety duties in such centres. And its article 5, promoted by an amendment, indeed, of the People's Party, regulates the specialized, initial and continuing training of professionals who have regular contact with minors, in addition, by specifying the public administrations that must ensure that teachers and educators receive specific training in the field of inclusive education. This organic law would be more complete if many of the amendments which my group tabled had been accepted and which the majority supporting the Government of Spain - you certainly included - decided not to incorporate into that text. Issues linked, for example, to the essence of the objective of the norm: to prevent children and adolescents in our country from being subjected to situations of special vulnerability, especially children in custody who have suffered sexual exploitation. You will know what political motivations led you to reject, for example, measures to improve the protection of minors in foster care, which we proposed in your day. You speak in your exhibition of reasons for safe spaces in educational institutions. I believe that you have stayed there short: educational centres, centres and reception apartments. To take advantage of this normative text and ensure safe spaces in which children in Spain can form and deploy their vital projects freely, let us hope that on this occasion they will not be carried away by political motivations and bet on the protection of children and adolescents regardless of their political colors and of the negligent governments they seek to safeguard. If the House takes this bill into consideration, I am announcing that my parliamentary group will try to strengthen regulatory regulation to prevent chilling situations such as those we have been familiar with throughout this legislature in the Balearic Islands and in the Valencian Community. In the People's Parliamentary Group, we also consider this bill to be relevant. However, it is surprising, first of all, that these measures could have tried to incorporate into the previous legislation and we do not understand why they did not. Secondly, because it is a proposal for a law that is not based on legal reports or requests from associations or representatives of the third sector. Thirdly, because taking into account your political experiments, Mr de Esquerra Republicana, it would be necessary to amend some terms of your proposal to strengthen legal certainty and the presumption of innocence. Fourthly, it is also surprising, as you are on the left, that you intend to bring to this House a reform of the Workers' Statute and the Basic Staff Statute without remembering, or at least consulting, the requisite social dialogue that should exist. We are not talking about a minor modification, but about creating an objective cause for the termination of the employment contract and the loss of civil service status. They also intend to do so without at least listening to the workers concerned. It doesn't make any sense. And, fifth, it surprises us because we are also short; I have already commented on it earlier. In view of the processing of the organic law, essential aspects of regulating the protection of minors, especially those who are forced to live in care centres or wards or foster homes, will be left out. It is surprising that you have not taken this opportunity to amend this error. There is a clear identity of purpose: to avoid situations of special vulnerability to minors in our country, either in the classrooms, in the centers or in the apartments. There is an identity of subjects: minors, on the one hand, but workers, on the other. It's a perfect opportunity that we all have and that we should take advantage of. The measures you propose can be reasonable for situations that, as you say, although fortunately not part of the usual tone, can happen in the classrooms, without losing sight of the commendable work of teachers, administrative staff and the service of educational institutions. However, what seems to be commonplace, and it is surprising that so many years passed without blowing up the alarms, were the abuses that took place in the Balearic Islands and in the Valencian Community, of which there has been silence; abuses that, as we said at the beginning too, are subsumed within the concept of violence of organic law, which we must all combat. [[Several Members: Very well!-Applause]] Let us take this opportunity to better protect our children and adolescents. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-19-CD211019.u26	Thank you very much, Mrs. Alvarez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, Mrs García López has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-19-CD211019.u27	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, the protection of children and adolescents is vital. Children and adolescents are the future of this country and must be guaranteed an adequate, inclusive and welcoming present for a free, responsible and prosperous future. We have an obligation to protect minors from violence in an integral way. To this end, schools must be safe spaces without exception. The reaction to conduct and crimes against the sexual integrity of minors must be extremely effective, rapid and robust. Sexual abuse is the most frightening form of child abuse. There is an abuse of the power of the adult, which affects the child in a terrible way at the individual, family and social level, causing sometimes irreparable physical and psychological damage. Make it clear, children and adolescents: you never, never have the blame; abusers are always the only ones responsible! [[Applauds]] Article 27 of the Spanish Constitution enshrines the right of all persons to education and stipulates that education shall be aimed at the full development of the human personality in respect of democratic principles of coexistence and fundamental rights and freedoms. Article 39.4 provides that boys and girls shall enjoy the protection provided for in international agreements which safeguard their rights. Thus, the 1989 United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child, ratified by Spain in 1990, in article 19.1 states that States parties shall take all appropriate legislative, administrative, social and educational measures to protect children and adolescents from any form of physical or mental injury or abuse, neglect or negligent treatment, ill-treatment or exploitation, including sexual abuse. The Council of Europe Convention for the Protection of Children and Adolescents from Sexual Exploitation and Abuse of 2007, known as the Lanzarote Convention, was ratified by Spain in 2010. This Convention establishes the obligation of the States parties to adopt legislative measures of all kinds to ensure that persons in the exercise of a profession in regular contact with minors have not been convicted of acts of sexual exploitation or abuse, and this requirement is thus established in our legal system through the Law on the Legal Protection of Minors, as well as the Law on the Amendment of the System for the Protection of Children and Adolescents. For the Socialist Party, our children and adolescents are the greatest treasure to which we must protect. That is why we are promoting the Organic Law on Comprehensive Protection of Children and Adolescents from Violence, recently adopted in this House. [[Applauds]] As you know, this law, in its chapter IV, in developing measures for the prevention and early detection of violence, guarantees the protection and safety of minors in educational establishments. Our socialist commitment to education legislation throughout democracy also addresses and seeks to prevent and eradicate school violence from different areas of competence. Lomlou advances from the lines of work that LOE opened in this regard, emphasizing the fight against all forms of violence in the school environment and including, and following the Children's Act, the figure of the coordinator of well-being and protection to be appointed in educational institutions to deal with these situations. After years of abandonment of the People's Party, the resumption of the activity of the State Observatory of School Co-existence in November 2020 makes it possible to carry out actions against violence in the educational field and the promotion of a positive, peaceful school co-existence aimed at achieving the emotional well-being of students. Ladies and gentlemen, despite all that has been said and done, we are aware that there is a thick layer of silence about sexual abuse and child abuse. The actual figure is unknown and it is estimated that only 10-15 % of cases are reported. In this regard, in addition to the provisions of the Republican Group's proposed law, we believe it is essential to highlight prevention, training and awareness-raising for the early detection of situations of violence against children and adolescents, and to this end it is necessary to maintain the commitment of the entire society, families, public administrations and the judicial system. This requires adapting new standards to ensure safe environments and the existence of protocols to allow early detection of possible situations of violence and sexual abuse. At this point training plays a fundamental role, as it allows teachers to warn of signs of situations that may or may degenerate into sexual abuse, and the emotional-sexual education that contemplates Lomlou in all educational stages, which allows students to be aware of situations that may put their sexual integrity at risk. Ladies and gentlemen, we will support the consideration of this initiative, which aims to prevent and respond effectively to crimes against sexual integrity and compensation in educational institutions by public employees who mislead minors and to improve corrective action. As legislators, we cannot allow such conduct. That is why we in the Socialist Parliamentary Group consider this proposal to be appropriate. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the only way we will have citizens who make this world a much better one. As teacher Francesco Tonucci says, we need people who feel fulfilled, who are happy. This is the challenge of education. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-19-CD211019.u28	Thank you very much, Mrs. García. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] - OF THE PLURAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, INTEGRATED OF CANNABIS. [[File number 122/00164]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-19-CD211019.u29	We continue with the agenda item on the consideration of the proposed law of the Plural Parliamentary Group, which is an integral part of cannabis. For the presentation of the initiative, Mr Errejón Galván has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-19-CD211019.u30	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, we often have discussions in this Congress that have much more to do with talks between us, with private discussions, in my opinion increasingly endogamous, more distant from society and that do not have much to do with people's concerns, with what is already real, which is a debate on the street in the day-to-day; we are adjectives to each other as we move further and further away from our society. It was worrying when in one country representatives had concerns that were increasingly alienated from the concerns of those represented. One of the great theories of political representation, Berkeley's professor, Hanna Pitkin, warns that when this gap becomes systematic, the quality of democracy worsens and the legitimacy of institutions is eroded. This gap widens basically when we lack honesty or we lack the courage to have the debates here about what is already normal on the street. Today we are faced with a reality that already exists in Spain and before which we have to make a decision. If we don't regulate the use of cannabis, we're not making a decision about it disappearing, because with the ban it doesn't disappear. We are de facto taking the decision to give control to the mafias, that is, to vote for the black market to be maintained. What's the alternative? The alternative is to use this Congress for what it is: to regulate it and to make a law according to what is already normal in our society; to be able to protect, to be able to inform, to be able to accompany and to be able to bring to the formal economy what today are benefits of the mafias and the black market. Where there are norms adapted to society, the public good can prevail; where not, the whim of the strongest prevails. Ladies and gentlemen, today we want to bring forward the comprehensive law for the most advanced cannabis in Europe. We bring you a discussion that seems to us fundamental for the time to come. With this comprehensive cannabis law we want to take a step further in a path of social and civil progress in which Spain has on many occasions been a pioneer and, we must say very clearly, we are not alone in this path. Countries in our environment, such as Portugal or Italy, are already moving in the same direction. In the State of Colorado or in the State of California, in countries such as Uruguay or Canada, laws have been implemented to regulate cannabis very similar to those proposed here today, and the future German government, composed of Social Democrats, Greens and Liberals, has already announced a comprehensive regulation of cannabis and its decriminalization. I would like to express my gratitude, first of all, to the associations that have helped us in the drafting of this law, as well as to the Podemos Group and the Republican Left Group of Catalonia for their work, the legislative initiatives they have registered, the agreement and the improvement of the initiative, as well as to the Basque Nationalist Party, thanks to which a subcommission is already in place to study medicinal cannabis. We agree and believe that it is crucial to study and legalize cannabis for therapeutic use and for the use of research, it would seem hypocritical not to do so. But we believe that regulating medical use is not enough. It is necessary that the debate in Spanish society - which is already mature - can go one step further. That is why we propose a comprehensive regulation, a solid legal framework that regulates the particular use by defining limits of self-cultivation and possession, establishing clear and specific rules for consumption in public space, regulating commercial activities related to cannabis, licences to growers, registration and labelling of products to allow traceability, as well as transport and export rules. We also want to establish environmentally friendly procedures for the treatment of waste and to require the use of at least 60% of renewable energy in professional indoor crops. It is possible that there are those who ask themselves, and ask themselves in addition to good faith, that with which they are falling, with the situation in Spain, why this is a priority, why we bring this here. I will try to sum it up, and it is for three very simple reasons: for health, for economy and for freedom. First of all, for health. Regular is not incentivising, nor is regular consumption of tobacco or alcohol incentivising. Consumption in Spain is already a fact, it is happening and will continue to occur even if it is still prohibited by law. Health policies of prevention, regulation or accompaniment cannot be carried out in activities that occur underground and behind the State's back. Precisely because abuse can be harmful to health so we need to regulate consumption, as we already do with substances such as tobacco or alcohol. Secondly, we need to regulate cannabis by economy. Why are the mafias engaged in cannabis trafficking? Because it's an activity that moves billions of euros a year. The regulation in the State of Colorado has created thousands of jobs and has resulted in an annual $1 billion income in the public coffers. In the case of Spain, a study of the Autonomous University of Barcelona figures around one hundred thousand direct jobs that could emerge for the formal economy and in a collection of about 3.3 billion euros per year that go today for the mafias and that could go to finance public services. Today Spain is already one of the world's leading cannabis producers. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-19-CD211019.u31	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-19-CD211019.u32	What we decide is whether this activity is going to benefit the mafias or it is going to benefit the formal economy and public services in our country. That is why our proposal for a law establishes a special tax, almost the same as that for alcohol or tobacco, of up to 35% on the selling price, the revenues of which we propose to be allocated, at least 60%, to public health. And, lastly, he said that for reasons of freedom and of facing hypocrisy. There are many people who in good faith can say: but the prohibition protects us. Is there anyone here who can come up to this rostrum and honestly say that the ban prevents today the Spanish or the Spanish that wants to get and consume cannabis at any time? There's no one who can honestly say that. The prohibition does not prevent people from consuming, the prohibition that they do is that they consume without information, that they consume without regulation and that they consume without labelling, and that this activity generates income for the mafias, but not for the State. Someone might say that what is needed is hard hand, but we have already tried to increase the sanctions, which can reach up to 30,000 euros. We have invested a lot of resources in arresting more people, 13,000 people arrested annually for cannabis-related reasons, according to data from the Ministry of the Interior. And I ask you: has the drug trafficking associated with cannabis been weakened? Not at all. Between 2013 and 2019 the number of plants seized has grown by 738 %. On the one hand, more and more sanctions and arrests, and on the other hand, the black market continues to grow. The ban, simply and simply, is not working. Or is there anyone who can defend that the ban is not generating more consumption, more crime and more damage to health? This is an old story that you all know. These discussions have already been raised. In 1920 the United States decided to deal with the damage caused by alcohol abuse, so they strongly prohibited the production and sale of alcohol. The Dry Law will sound to you. What effect did the prohibition established by the Dry Law have? The increase of the mafia, the increase of the poisonings, the growth of the black market and the flowering of characters like AlCapone. The ban did not work, so in 1932 Roosevelt rectified and withdrew the measure in the face of its failure, protecting the health of Americans and increasing the income for the public coffers of an activity that previously only generated income for criminal activities. In opening this debate, arguments have begun to emerge, as always, which have put the cry in the sky and which have said that this was going to be a cataclysm, that it was going to be a horror, that it was going to be a disaster. I just want to spend a minute answering some of these arguments. Firstly, there is the argument of those who say that if the consumption of cannabis is regulated in Spain, it is going to consume more. And I used to say that, ladies and gentlemen, I don't know where you live, but in the country where I live and where you live, there's not a single Spaniard who can't do it if he wants to use cannabis. What happens is that it does so without labelling, without regulation, without information, without accompaniment and without the protection of public authorities. There is no one who has stopped consuming because the ban does not leave him; in fact, consumption does not stop increasing. To regulate cannabis use is not to stimulate it, nor is to regulate tobacco to stimulate it, to be able to protect, to carry out awareness campaigns, to control quality and to prohibit it for certain sectors or activities. Secondly, there are those who say that this can facilitate consumption among minors, and it's exactly the opposite, in the black market they don't ask you for DNI, in the park they don't ask you for DNI; they ask you in an established center, they ask you in unstanco, they ask you in an enabled center. Black market activities are more difficult to control, it is more difficult for the State to intervene to protect minors. Finally, there are those who say that this regulation would open the way to the consumption of other substances, of other drugs that are much more harmful. The truth is that this could be applied to many drugs that are legal, and it is true that they have nothing to do with the effects they produce on the human body, the effects they produce on our social relations, but it is exactly the opposite, that the ban pushes many people to go to the black market, in which they can then come into contact with other substances. Finally, I want to address the different political groups. I know that the right-wings are going to oppose, as it is natural, because, in general, they oppose everything until we get it approved, and then they end up using it as well. The only thing I would ask of them is that if they systematically oppose all progress in individual freedoms, they renounce the term liberals, because it is a term that remains great for them. Liberal is not the term that defines who is always on the side of the powerful, but who is also in agreement with the progress of individual freedoms, and you are voting systematically here against all progress in rights and freedoms. [[Applauds]] I say to the Socialist Party: I think you are going to vote against it, and I regret that vote. You know we're missing a historic opportunity today. And I want to make it very clear: voting today that not the regulation of cannabis is not voting for it to be eliminated, we do not have a magic button. To vote today that cannabis is not regulated is not to vote that it disappears from Spanish society, it is to vote that it continues to be produced, that it continues to be distributed and consumed in the black market, not under the control of the institutions, but under the control of the mafias. I hope you will take note of your sister party in Germany, the SPD, which, in coalition with the Greens and thanks to a proposal from the Greens, our sister formation has recognised that we must legislate and will regulate it in Germany. We believe that in this law will happen what has happened many other times that we have submitted topics to public discussion. The cycle is always the same: first, playful comments; then, news and studies begin to come out; then, we look at other countries that do; then, other political formations adopt it and, in the end, we end up approving it. I would like to thank you for the political formations with which we have agreed. I want to thank the civil society organisations that have been working on this issue for a long time and I want to say that today we have taken a big step towards freedom, we have taken a big step towards health and we are going to take a big step towards the economy. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-19-CD211019.u33	Thank you very much, Mr Errejón. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Martínez Oblanca, first of all, has the floor on the joint parliamentary group's position.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-19-CD211019.u34	Thank you very much, Madam President. I will vote against taking into account the proposal for a comprehensive cannabis law, and I am also confident that the abundant parliamentary precedents of proposals equivalent to that proposed by More Country will serve as a reference to consistently reject this initiative, which, if accepted, will have a full impact on public health. I would also like to recall that only five days ago a subcommission was set up here in Congress to analyse experiences in regulating cannabis for medicinal use, which, in my view, should have been preceded by a well-documented scientific work on the subject. Ladies and gentlemen, in the face of the apologetas of consumption, I would like to say loud and clear that cannabis is a drug, and the message to the citizens cannot be other than the drug enslaves, destroys and kills. The drug enslaves, destroys and kills. [[Applauds]] There are those who consider that their consumption has no risk, which responds, as Mr Errejón has said, to an exercise of individual freedom and that everyone with his body and his health does what he wants, but, from the responsibility involved in intervening from this rostrum, when we talk about drugs, the debate must focus on prevention, not on consumption. The trivialization of the effects of substances begins with the fake makeup of its definition. Cannabis is a drug, but soft, proclaim its valiant; it is not addictive, they claim. Unfortunately, however, for those who take such advice as good, cannabis is at the base to go down footpaths to the tragic and devastating hell of narcotics. According to data from the Youth Council, this drug is, after alcohol and tobacco, the third most consumed substance. One in three minors reported having smoked it in the last month. According to Community data, Spain is leading consumption in the European Union alongside France. 23% of adolescents in our country acknowledged having used cannabis before the pandemic. Many adolescents probably do not know that problems and eating disorders at early ages result in neurobiological changes that impact brain development. Ladies and gentlemen, together with the social dimension, there is a health dimension to drug use, as in the case of cannabis. Attention to the pathologies resulting from the damage caused by this substance is very complex and requires a lot of resources. It shows that the inhalation of their smoke multiplies several hundred times the toxics of tobacco, with the corresponding pulmonary deterioration, and that the colocons avocate psychological and psychiatric disorders, such as psychotic outbreaks, schizophrenia, depression or anxiety. That is why, in the end, I am opposed to the legal regulation of this matter. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-19-CD211019.u35	Thank you very much, Mr. Martínez. For the same parliamentary group, Mrs Vehí Cantenys has the floor. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-19-CD211019.u36	Thank you, President. Let's talk about the regulation of cannabis is good news. We thank the proposing group and the other groups that have also been working on the subject. In fact, a law was passed in Catalonia on 13/2017, which - they won't believe it - fell down the Constitutional Court. It's something that's never happened. Let us talk about the regulation of cannabis is good news for three main reasons; some have been said, but we want to explain them. The first is an obvious fact: in the Spanish state a lot of cannabis is consumed and it would be hypocritical not to think about public policy from this reality. Prohibitionism does not work; banning cannabis does not mean that consumption decreases, that consumption is more expensive and that the mafia make more money. Indeed, according to data from the Ministry of Health, 19.3% of young people have consumed it in the last 30 days and it is the illegal substance most consumed in the Spanish State. Prohibiting leads us to a political practice we could say that hypocritical, because, as we said, only increases the price and benefits of the mafias; instead, regular has to do with educating and ensuring safe consumption. The second reason why we agree with the regulation of cannabis is a reason in terms of public health. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, you're a little heavy...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-19-CD211019.u37	Excuse me a moment, Mrs. Vehi. Wait a minute, please. There is a permanent rumor that prevents the speaker from following. I'm asking for a little more silence, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-19-CD211019.u38	It is that, moreover, this morning I had to listen, from an extreme right-wing journalist, to what I dedicate my salary to. That is what I am asking here in this House that they do not stop talking. If you don't want to be here, you leave, but talk to this noise... [[Rumors and Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-19-CD211019.u39	Mrs Vehi, continue your intervention.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-19-CD211019.u40	The second reason is a public health reason. The United Nations has recognized its therapeutic use in this very year 2020. It's a historical demand from chronically ill people and people who suffer chronic pain. And to talk about public health, we should also talk in this rostrum about another element that has been removed previously, and it is - as cannabis is forbidden and cannot be used for medical reasons - the use in excess of opiates, more and more. When I talk about opiates, I talk about valiums, tranquilizers, orchids and many prescription medicines. In fact, looking also at data from the Ministry of Health, 5% of the consultations carried out by doctors in the adult population eliminates these prescriptions and, in addition, they are drugs that generate a lot of addiction. Cannabis is a good alternative in the sense that it is healthier, less addictive and, moreover, cheaper, because, as you know, it can be grown at home. The last argument is the one that has already been said: traffic. Regularizing cannabis is fighting trafficking. Moreover, not regular can not be an alternative, it has already been said. I do not know which country you live in, but Catalonia is becoming the new Amsterdam: we produce all the marijuana that is consumed throughout Europe. We have to regulate this, we have to regulate, because the alternative is that these people make millions of money. The ban leads to favouring the black market and to favouring the mafia's supply; on the other hand, it leads us not only to safe and regulated consumption, but also to a trend that is global and, moreover, to be able to collect a lot of taxes - it has been said too -. I ended with words from Pepe Mujica, the former President of the Republic of Uruguay, a pioneer country in the legalization of cannabis. He said that the only healthy addiction was that of love and that worse than marijuana is drug trafficking. That is what we need to focus on: shortening the field, shortening the market for drug trafficking and ensuring safe and regulated consumption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-19-CD211019.u41	Thank you very much, Mrs Vehi. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Parliamentary Group Euskal Herria Bildu, Mr Ruiz de Pinedo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-19-CD211019.u42	Pick it up on. Good afternoon. First of all, we support this initiative aimed at putting in place a new legal framework to regulate and decriminalise the use of cannabis. Why? Even if it is not going to be approved this afternoon, it is good that we start to reflect and give way to a problem that we are not solving so far; it is time for us to address it from the point of view of finding logical, orderly and democratic solutions. It is unacceptable that we choose to maintain the current situation, a situation that we already know does not work because it is uncontrolled, careless, insecure, marginalized, repressive and submerged economy. We already know that. Why don't we look for a legal and rational path? It can only be understood that there are immovable solutions if it is actually taking advantage of or benefiting from that situation. Who benefits from this situation? The one who's betting on outlaws, for reinforcing repressive paths? Are we betting on strengthening those sectors that try to impose their Catholic national morale on the basis of prohibitive impositions? Are we going to keep betting on those tracks? Aren't there others? That's what's at stake right now. Why should I bet? In our view, there are three fundamental reasons. First: already in the 21st century, the strategy that was launched at the beginning of the 20th century, prohibitive fashion, is being cornered; in fact, the UN, for example, has already removed hemp from the list of dangerous drugs and many countries are already developing the regularization of its use. Secondly, the fundamental problem of the use of marijuana, of hemp derivatives, of all that range of products is a public health problem, and that is where we have to focus and where we have to mark our strategies. The regularization of the use of hemp, marijuana, cannabis, as we want to call it, will have effects that are only going to be positive, first, because it will allow for progress in research and, second, because we will prevent such regularization from coming from the private enterprise, from the large multinationals, which is one of the elements to be anticipated. We cannot wait for regularization, legalization, all the strategies of normalization of their medical and playful consumption to come to us from the hands of the big multinationals. Thirdly, we must ensure that legalization, its regularization, is not based on the trivialization of its consumption. Precisely, from a medical point of view, one of the strategies of normalization and regularization has to be against the trivialization of its use. It is good to continue to advance on these lines already spent and used. Finally, I wanted to refer to an issue on which regularization is urgently needed: it is important that this market is emerging and that it is not covering illegal drug trafficking networks. That is why we support both this and the other initiatives that are here in this Parliament. I would like to recall that there are many institutions that have been trying to move forward in that direction. One of them is the Foral Parliament of Navarre; the Foral Parliament of Navarre adopted in 2015 a law for the regularization of the activity of cannabis groups and users; in 2017 the Constitutional Court abolished it, gave it a hammer. Again a hammering of that politicized justice, because it was not only a question of stopping that initiative of Navarra, but also that of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country and that of Catalonia. The Navarra Foreign Parliament then referred that law back to us for approval here. In 2019, when this Parliament was dissolved, that initiative was parked. The Basque Autonomous Community and Catalonia have been debating different initiatives that have been approved by parliamentarians and parliamentarians of their party, do not forget that; there is a cry in society, in parliaments, in all the institutions that tell us that we have to regulate. It is good that we are working on the basis that the right-wing duo is threatening us directly or through the institutions and, accordingly, we are legislating and we have given up taking courageous steps. It is time to take the initiative of regularisation directly, and let us hope that this is the case in this legislature. We must move forward, we must take steps not only because we think so, but because society is demanding it from us. Thank you very much. Eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-19-CD211019.u43	Thank you very much, Mr Ruiz de Pinedo. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mrs Gorospe Elezcano has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-19-CD211019.u44	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, everyone. Mr Errejon, good afternoon, it is a pleasure to discuss with you for the first time. I would like to begin by recalling what has been and continues to be one of the great hallicaps that has to overcome this debate on the regularization of cannabis. The great handicap has been the hyperpolarization of the debate, mainly in the political sphere, a hyperpolarization between those in which they were radically opposed - no, this is not mentioned - and those who defended, perhaps, maximalist positions, which prevented the debate. But if that was a macro polarization, now, here, curlying the curl, we're witnessing a micro polarization, because you're going to the race. I am going to review the latest initiatives that we now have on the table. On September 22, a bill is debated in the Senate; on September 27, five days later, you present this bill; the next day another bill is presented for the same by Esquerra Republicana; a week later, on October 6, United We can present another bill in Congress for the same issue. Four propositions of law at the same time for the same thing here. Do you think this is the way? What I see very clearly is that you are in the race and honestly I say to you that I do not think this is in any way conducive to making progress in the debate on this issue. If what we had was to overcome that hyperpolarization of the extremes, how can it be justified that those closest in positions are not able to articulate a text - when they have already worked out some texts, taking a little more time - and present us here in Congress as a basis document for work? We believe that this debate should be tackled and worked on from pragmatism, and that will lead us to move forward. [[The Lord]] Maybe there may be someone who thinks those shy steps aren't much, but I'm going to give you an example of different steps that we've been taking, that we think they've been a milestone at the time and that, in the end, they're also being taken into account. In 2016, in the Basque Parliament, the Addictions Act was passed, and an article, article 83, was included, which referred to the need to regulate entities of cannabis users. Now, here in this House, another step has been taken: a subcommittee has been set up to analyse different experiences in the field of medicinal and therapeutic cannabis. I think we are going to be able, all of us who feel there as spokespersons for our respective parliamentary groups, to listen and reflect together and to make a report with proposals and to refer to the Government so that it can, if it takes into account, put from the Ministry of Health some programme of access to medicinal, therapeutic cannabis, which can serve as an example and pioneering way to further progress. You were referring to the need to move forward with a policy of harm reduction rather than a policy of prohibition - I do not know whether the policy of harm reduction has mentioned it, but rather the policy of prohibition - and we fully agree. Prohibitionist policies do not work well. We don't share that perspective. We understand that any policy must be tackled from a policy of harm reduction. And I'm going to give you two more examples of damage reduction policies that were launched in Euskadi, which were pioneers and which worked very well. A syringe exchange programme was launched in 1986, first in an NGO and then in Basauri prison. There were people who put their hands to their heads, but the results were excellent. Another pioneering programme for the exchange of supplies, the dispensation of methadone, was also launched for those who were addicted to heroin in facilities that were in hygienic condition to be able to move forward. We are firmly committed - and I am therefore setting these examples for you - to moving forward on the policy of harm reduction, but in this we have to move forward together. There must be a political endorsement to support these policies. We have to persuade, we have to convince, and that is done by working together those who can be in a meeting position, those who want to move forward in that regulation. But this battle is not won at the race, wanting to take the flag of who has it, because in that fight against the flag the only thing that happens is that the stick breaks, the flag falls and no one advances. This is about the shape. As far as the substance is concerned, you said that there were three issues on which progress had to be made in this area. One of them was health, but, frankly, we do not see in its text the focus of health promotion policies, we do not see it. We see that approach much more present in other legislative proposals that have been put forward. Article 83, which was included in the Addictions Act in Euskadi, said this because we were talking about consumer entities as collaborating agents of the public administration. We said: For the sake of the objective of health protection and harm reduction, by regulation, associations made up of older persons who consume cannabis will be regulated. And we add: These entities will include associative objectives collaboration with the Administration in the prevention of addictions, in the promotion of responsible use of cannabis and other substances. That is the approach we wanted the text to work on. On the other hand, you have said that you have brought a proposal for a law that is one of the most advanced laws in Europe. To us, with humility, if I may, seems more like a manifest omnibus that touches many issues than a rigorously worked bill that we can really face. Take some time to work on those texts that were presented...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-19-CD211019.u45	Your Honor, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-19-CD211019.u46	... Because it'll be good for everyone. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-19-CD211019.u47	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Díaz Gómez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-19-CD211019.u48	Thank you, President. The attitude in politics can be divided into three behaviors: one, the prohibitionist: when something is not controlled or generated controversy, be prohibited; another, the coward: when something is not controlled or generated controversy, not touch it, and the other, the liberal: when something is not controlled or generated controversy, questions freedom. These attitudes can be determined by the ideology of the current politician or legislator. There are those who want freedom in some matters and forbid many others, and on the other side of the spectrum the positions are simply the opposite. Where the right wants freedom, the left wants to ban. Where the right wants to ban, the left wants freedom. Sometimes, to see the position on one topic, they wait to see what the other says to say exactly the opposite. But there is a group of irreducibles that when the left wants to ban, it wants freedom; when the right wants to ban, it wants freedom, and when the right and the left want to ban, it wants freedom. [[applause]] [[Applauds]] This group of irreducibles are called liberals. Today is one of those days when it is clear, Mr Errejon, where liberalism is in this House. While the attitude that has been taken about cannabis in Spain has generally been the coward - not touching it -, many years have passed when cannabis was consumed in limbo: you could consume it, but not buy it or transport it. This has left for years those who want to use cannabis in nobody's land. At the same time, criminal networks have been allowed to flourish which, in addition to attacking security, the economy and coexistence, attack public health through extremely harmful adulterations and mixtures. Looking at the other side has been the attitude of the Spanish classic parties with this issue; unable to prohibit it and being a substance really within the reach of anyone, cannabis consumption has continued its course outside the State with the consequences for the health, safety and detriment of the public coffers it entails. Those who today vote against this bill are not able to ban, they prefer not to touch it. We have the whole Chamber, practically the whole Chamber, doing the ostrich. In addition, banning is fashionable in Spain lately. Puritans left and right,'savoranolas' and 'torquemadillos' will tell the Spaniards whether they can see pornography or not, what movies to watch, what work of art to cancel, what statue to throw, what historical episode to erase, and left and right prejudice will cause prejudice to the freedom of the Spaniards. [[Applauds]] The illiberal impulse, the liberticide reflex, when it infests society expands at high speed. It has already happened in the past, in Geneva with Calvin or in Müntzer with his false prophets. Freedoms are conquered for decades, sometimes for centuries, of struggle, but they can last minutes if they are not cared for; they are a fragile flower, it is not a natural state of things and depend above all on collective commitment in their defense. We have now entered Spain into a Hobbesian trap that the liberticide on the one hand is answered not with the demand for freedom, but with the liberticide on the other. We do not discuss in Spain what freedom to win, we discuss what freedom to lose. That is why we are so annoyed by the citizens, because in these times, as in other polarizing processes in the past and throughout Europe, the defenders of freedom, when things get like this, it is up to us to resist. And I have some bad news for the liberticides: they won't have it easy, we won't give up. On the other hand, those who bring this law here today are moved by a ridiculous race that can turn all of this into a chaff. More Country brings this proposal here today simply because Podemos announced that it was going to do so. Left also joins the car running to try to register your law, which I don't know if they've already registered it. On such a serious issue and on which we must be extremely rigorous, we have on the left spectrum a sort of mad car race with this theme. This clumsy - do not be mistaken - will be used by the illiberal drive to vote against this proposal. And this illiberal drive - as you can see today - is much more transversal than you thought. But you have a big flaw: everything you touch usually turns it into a caricature. They present here a rule that suffers from more things than virtues. There is no security for those who want to use cannabis, there is no security for those who want to cultivate and sell it, there is no security or fight against addictions, there is no protection for minors, nor is there a sanctioning regime for those who fail to comply with this law. It is very important that such a law contains a regime in the face of non-compliance. It is one of the laws that most amendments need than have been dealt with in this House. We are a party that guides your attitude to freedom as a principle, but also to evidence. We believe that Spanish society is more than prepared for us to face a regulation of cannabis consumption, a very informed consumption, where it is known that regulating does not mean blessing, but, in the face of the disjunctive between freedom and prohibition, we want freedom, always freedom. But full freedom can only be exercised with full information; as in the case of other substances that can harm health, citizens must be provided with all the scientific evidence that exists. Speaking of evidence, prohibition does not work when a conduct is socially accepted. Look at the effects of the dry law: crime, mafia, marginality, and bad-quality alcohol that wreaked havoc on the people who consumed it. We say to you that while we will vote in favour of this proposal for a law that brings us here today, in the process of amendments - if it were adopted, which does not seem to be due to the prevailing osstructure - I say to you that we will propose specific guarantees for the therapeutic use of cannabis, which avoid the use of minors, certainty and legal certainty in obtaining licences for the cultivation and sale of cannabis, a sanctioning regime for those who do not comply with the law, mechanisms for dialogue with consumers and companies in the sector, greater rigour in terms of the provisions for therapeutic cannabis. And I end up saying that, in the face of the disjunctives, the liberals always bet on freedom and today we will see who has freedom in principle and who saw in it only one slogan. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-19-CD211019.u49	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Rosique i Saltor has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-19-CD211019.u50	It is very easy to put aside those issues that create problems in society. The brave thing is to confront them so that these problems can be prevented, controlled and solved. Cannabis use over the past few decades has only increased, leading to problems of addictions that must be prevented and treated. In addition, cannabis is the drug that young people start to treat. Nor can it be obviated that more cannabis plantations are found each year by mafias than in the previous year, which creates serious problems of social insecurity. And if anything has been shown, the current ban on this substance does not help to reduce consumption, but rather the opposite; nor to promote safety, but rather the opposite. We are therefore surprised that, according to the CIS, there is 90.1% in favour of the regulation of cannabis for therapeutic use and 49.7% for recreational use, because citizenship is seeing and living the negative effects that this ban generates and needs alternative responses. What would make no sense is that, seeing the consensus of the citizenry, here in the Congress of Deputies, the debate would be vetoed. I repeat, we are here to find solutions to the problems, not to avoid them. And it would still make less sense for the PSOE, which leads the Spanish Government and the ministries directly affected, to veto it. This would be typical of a right that takes advantage of criminalization to generate social insecurity and thus increase police presence. In no case would it be the same as a political party that makes it a flag to be in the most progressive government in history. Nor is it worth the story that this is not the time, because for you it is the time only when it is electorally appropriate. Cannabis addictions in Catalonia have not changed in recent years despite the pandemic, and this should create a social alarm for all of us, also for you. The therapeutic use of cannabis should also be a political priority. The UN considered cannabis a medicine and now we must adapt the legislation to allow it to be accessed, provided that one has a prescription from the doctor. It is enough to force people who use therapeutic cannabis to resort to illegal routes to treat themselves. Secure access must be a reality. As you know, the Parliamentary Group of Republican Left presented a bill, a few weeks ago, to regulate cannabis in an integral way, in order to reduce its consumption, ensure safe access, eliminate the mafia and regulate its therapeutic use. This is, from our point of view, the legislation that we should start with in this debate. However, we have no intention of vetoing this proposal from More Country, but rather of discussing and amending it. We share objective and vision, despite the fact that our priority law is one that gives us all the sovereignty we can, and therefore we intend to reach agreements. No races, our intention has always been to reach agreements. The cannabid entities that have fought to make a law a reality deserve it. For us, this proposal for a law - to be said - generates competitive invasions that we can never allow, as is the creation of the Cannabis State Agency or the overregulation of associations, but we will negotiate for decentralization to be present. For us, this bill must also incorporate the treatment and prevention of addictions, the industrial marketing of cannabis and the sanctioning regime, but we will negotiate for all this to be included in this bill. For us, there are nuances of quantities that need to be changed, but we will negotiate on this. Ladies and gentlemen, in Esquerra Republicana and the Young Republicà we have been working for a long time to make the regulation of cannabis a reality. We opened the debate when no one talked about it and opened the debate in Catalonia, together with the Cannabic Associative Movement, which was born from there, achieving broad consensus in Parliament. Now the Catalans have a mandate from the Parliament of Catalonia, which in 2017 passed the Cannabis Associations Act, which, as you know, was laid down by the Constitutional Court. That is why we must be able to build a legal framework for the implementation of this law, not for it to be replaced; in the end, we must respect the will of our people. Let us be brave; this depends solely on all of us. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-19-CD211019.u51	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Muñoz Dalda has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podem-Galicia in common.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-19-CD211019.u52	Ladies and gentlemen, today is a very special day for many people who have been pushing the regulation of cannabis for a long time and are following this debate with great interest. I would like to begin by recognizing and thanking the impetus given by civil society organizations, which has allowed today three registered laws and a subcommittee for the study of the medicinal use of cannabis already constituted. Thanks to RCN, which recently managed to bring its bill to the Senate; thanks to Responsible Regulation, to the State Anti-Prohibitionist Women's Network, to the European Agricultural and Consumption Observatory of Cannabis, to the Spanish Cannabis Medical Observatory, to the Cannabis Policy Study Group, to the Renovation Foundation, to the Iceers Foundation, to the Confederation of Cannabis Associations, to Arsec, to AMEC, to the various federations of cannabis associations at the autonomic level, MadFAS, GaFAS, FedCAC, FAC Sureste, FAC Sur, FAC Levante, FAC Illes Balears, FAC Castilla y León, FAC Extremadura, FAC Canarias, EusFAC, CatFAC, AraFAT and surFAC, and thanks in particular - I think we have to recognize it - to the Cannabic Circle. I think it deserves special recognition, as the text we are debating on the proposal of the Plural Parliamentary Group is almost identical to that which they have hung on their website. [[Applauds]] Obviously, this text serves as a starting point for us. In fact, we have taken this very closely into account when drawing up our proposal. There are differences between the text we are discussing today and our proposal. Our proposal is more extensive, more inclusive, because we recognize the realities relating to cannabis without leaving anyone out, such as the creation of microproducer cooperatives, which takes into account those people who are always excluded from regulation. In addition, we define in detail up to twelve types of regulated market licenses, creating a complete framework, unlike this text, which indicates that it will be regulated in the future, but does not regulate it. We have also worked hard to differentiate non-profit self-management activities in relation to cannabis social clubs from those that do. It has also been designed from a sustainable logic, because we do not want macro indoor crops because of the ecological footprint they represent. We are also trying to protect our market; we strongly limit the accumulation of licences to prevent the creation of oligopolies, and we take into account insularity and Spain emptied by tax advantages and tax exemptions to facilitate companies' deployment in these territories. Despite these small differences, I do believe that we agree on the fundamentals, which is the recognition and regulation of self-cultivation, of cannabic associations and of the market. That is why we are voting in favour. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-19-CD211019.u53	Your Honor, one second. I beg your silence, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-19-CD211019.u54	Thank you, President. Having said that, I'm going to use the time I have left to try to answer a couple of questions that I think are being asked a lot of people out there. The first is why three different proposals have been put forward, why we have not talked to the parliamentary groups among ourselves, why the debate has been taken to plenary so quickly, why we have not tried to define a joint strategy with civil society and the rest of the political forces. Well, I can only say that for our part there's always been will, we've always reached out and we're going to keep doing it. Working together and constructively is our way of working. Anyway, I think we're on time. Ladies and gentlemen, I think we are in time, and a gesture that can be made by parliamentary groups who want to work in this way is, at the end of this debate, to go out and greet the civil society that will be waiting for us. The other question, which has already been answered through the media, is what the Socialist Group is going to do. The only thing we can assure is that the Socialist Group is going to make sure that it participates in the debate, that we can assure it, just like the rest of the political forces. They are all going to participate in the debate, perhaps not once or twice or three times, but three times. And it's curious that no one from the People's Group is wondering what they're going to do; not much is expected of you, ladies and gentlemen. It's curious, you don't even expect a minimum of consistency. Of course, you, who fill your mouth with freedom, are going to vote in favour of maintaining the ban. I wish I was wrong, I wish I was wrong and I didn't. Finally, I would like to clarify why our proposal leaves out the medical dimension of cannabis. While drawing up the proposal, and once the whole legal framework had been analysed, we decided that it was technically and strategically more appropriate to deal with it separately. We have been strongly urged by patient associations and also by our government partner, and I believe that the PNV would agree with this, not to mix the medicinal dimension with other issues. We agree to cut the debate as long as everything is dealt with at the same time, and now I believe that the conditions have been created for this to happen in different areas: on the one hand, to address the medicinal dimension in the medical subcommittee and, on the other hand, to address economic and social issues in this plenary or in the Addictions Committee. We think that in this way, with an orderly debate, there is more chance of moving forward. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-19-CD211019.u55	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Steegmann Olmedillas has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-19-CD211019.u56	With venial, Mr. President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Errejón, Mrs Muñoz has just told you that you have fully or almost entirely copied this bill from the Cannabic Circle, and that will seriously damage your reputation as a tireless worker. [[Laughs.-Applause.]] The sinister attempts to legalize cannabis, i.e. marijuana and hashish in any of its uses, are a Trojan horse from drug cartels, as Mrs. Muñoz has shown. The happy absence of Pablo Iglesias, on October 18, 2018, defended the legalization of marijuana because - he said - the state would get an extra income based on having the Spaniards smoked. Mr. Errejón, your Benjamin, is following in his footsteps. Don Íñigo, very serious, with his frown and mouth frowned, presents us with a proposal for a law that shows that the left is still engaged in the attempt to have the Spaniards unemployed, but absolutely placed. [[Applauds]] They say as an excuse that having them asleep would serve to finance public health. Ladies and gentlemen, the same proponent acknowledges that the use of cannabis entails public health problems, but that does not prevent him from encouraging cannabis use clubs, which is similar to the use of gin-tonics in the meetings of Alcoholics Anonymous. [[Laughter]] The exhibition, ladies and gentlemen, says it justifies the proposal that cannabis use has accelerated and, given that the current law has not corrected the problem, it is necessary to legalize its use. However, and there his difficult relationship with the truth-that of the left -, in the United States it has proved just the opposite. Legalization in California has increased the black market by more than 80%. [[Mrs Sabanes Nadal and Mr Errejón Galván make negative gestures]] No, don't say no because it is. In Massachusetts and Nevada, 70%. We must also thank you, Mr Díaz, not the liberals but the libertarians. [[Applauds]] The exhibit says to justify all this, in short, by the means. Why not promote prostitution, as the Cuban communist regime does, to obtain currency? No, ladies and gentlemen, no, public health should not be financed by the legalization of marijuana. Mr President, this is a proposal for a law whose basis is to be scientific and which has no scientific reference. It is shameful and frankly insulting, Mr Errejón, that proposals in this House come with valid scientific references. The proposer also tries to confuse the reader because throughout the text he tries to assimilate the plant, cannabis sativa, with psychoactive components of it; in fact, two of them are in medicines for very rare neurological problems, 4000 people in Spain. Ladies and gentlemen, pharmacology has progressed; we no longer consume plants for medication, extract the components, modify them and synthesize them intelligently because we know the chemical wiring of the body. Marijuana is toxic and its consumption is a major public health problem not only because of the psychoactive properties of the plant, but because now variants are achieved that have 10 to 50 times more psychedelic components, and you know it. Cannabis is the illegal drug with the highest prevalence of consumption in Spain in the population aged 15 to 64; it is the third drug to cause life-threatening use after cocaine and alcohol intoxication; it is the second leading cause of hospital emergencies after cocaine. Attention to this data because you will be interested in who the author is. Article in European Neuropsychopharmacology, 44 reviews, 1053 studies: clear association between cannabis use and schizophrenia, anxiety, sleep disorders, cognitive disorders, cancer, traffic accidents, suicide and domestic and child violence. [[Applauds]] Who do we owe this data to? To Dr. Juan Ramón Villalbí, government delegate for the National Drug Plan. [[Applauds]] Therefore, if this bill is harmful to public health, to whom would it benefit, ladies and gentlemen? I'll answer to Mrs. Gorospe. First of all, to the proposing group, and the others are the ones who want to share the cake because they want to make themselves pretty in front of the drug cartel. Secondly, to More Country, which would turn Spain into a new Venezuela, into a narco state. The state agency you are proposing would be a new PDVSA that would serve to finance you and the communist agenda disguised as green grass. [[Applauds]] And who's harming? Of course to Spain, and especially to young people; especially to young people Socialist exhortations to be placed come from afar. In the eighties Tierno Galván was the one who invited them. Of him, Alfonso Guerra said he was a cataract viper, by the way. [[Laughter]] We've seen the young people of the eighty destroyed by heroin. The working class suffered all this. The mental deterioration that marijuana will produce will be the dot for young Spaniards after the birth of the Celaá Law. Instead of promoting study, work, effort and excellence, what this proposal of law promotes is the creation of a narcotized, alienated, more foolish, incultivated and dependent youth of the narco-state. [[Applauds]] I'm done, ladies and gentlemen. The only benefit we derive from this bill is that it will be renamed More Country with another name, More Hashish. Thank you very much. [[Applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, on the stand, saying: Bullfighter, bullfighter, bullfighter!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-19-CD211019.u57	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mrs Velasco Morillo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-19-CD211019.u58	Thank you very much, President. Very good afternoon. The Plural Parliamentary Group presents to us in this House the consideration of a proposal for a law on cannabis, you have heard it well. Mr Errejón, with which he is falling in our country - the unemployment, the rise of light or 'violence against the police, that some MP of the Parliamentary Group We can well know what I mean -, and we talk about cannabis, the drug with the highest prevalence of consumption in Spain in the population of fifteen to sixty-four years, according to the Age survey prepared by the Delegation of the National Plan on Drugs. [[applause]] And according to the survey Estudes, on the use of drugs in secondary education in Spain, consumption begins before the age of fifteen, a concern - the use of cannabis among young people - that in the CIS of Tezanos does not collect. A bit surprising! The Spanish are still awaiting the evolution of the pandemic, with many wondering about the immunity of coronavirus vaccines and whether they will have to put one more dose, with a health system that needs to be strengthened, with primary care calling for urgent action and when these general budgets of 2022 are not going to meet those desired expectations, with health professionals who urgently need to increase health training places, to address their wages or the situation of temporaryity, among other issues, and, ladies and gentlemen, this afternoon we are talking about cannabis. What irresponsibility when using drugs is not a fundamental right or a basic freedom, using drugs is a public health problem, and it has been said here this afternoon! [[Applauds]] This initiative would not comply with the obligation of the public authorities, including the legislative branch, this House, ladies and gentlemen, to protect public health through preventive measures provided for in Article 43(2) of the Spanish Constitution, or with the right to protect the health of persons also provided for in Article 43 of the Spanish Constitution, or with the obligation of the public authorities, including the legislative branch, to ensure the protection of consumers and users by effective procedures protecting the safety and health provided for in Article 51.1 of the Spanish Constitution. In addition, Mr Errejón, they speak in the explanatory statement of their initiative that with this law they intend to provide Spain with a solid regulatory framework that is consistent with social reality. What social reality? Does the CIS survey, obviating the reality that health professionals move to the usual use of cannabis, which causes great organic and psychological damage, such as chronic bronchitis, cardiovascular disorders, psychotic and depression outbreaks? In young people it can cause acute reactions and anxiety; also long-term effects, such as memory and learning problems, worse academic results, premature drop-outs, or we could talk about traffic accidents as a result of this drug. These effects are the social reality experienced by the people who consume it and, fundamentally, our young people. This morning the delegate himself of the National Drug Plan transferred the trivialization of the risks associated with cannabis use to us, and you collaborate in this with the presentation of this initiative. With regard to cannabis cultivation, they had forgotten the United Nations Single Convention on Narcotic Drugs, to which Spain had acceded. With this law we would go against what has been agreed and we would also appreciate the Spanish Constitution. The Spanish Agency for Medicinal Products and Sanitary Products authorizes the cultivation. In relation to the production, manufacture, import, export, distribution and marketing of cannabis or its products for therapeutic use, article 51 of the consolidated text of the Law on Guarantees and Rational Use of Medicinal Products, which mentions medicinal products from medicinal plants, is forgotten. On the basis of this law, the therapeutic use of cannabis is subject to the same standards and guarantees of quality, safety and efficacy as the rest of the medicines, a position that we have advocated from the People's Parliamentary Group when we debated in this House the creation of the subcommission to analyze the regulation of the medicinal use of cannabis. I ask you, are you really worried about something specific about this drug? But, let's go beyond that. A few days ago in the Senate there was also another proposal for a law regulating the cannabis user group and today two others are in this same House. Ladies and gentlemen, do you really think that this initiative will bring about a reduction in our young people's consumption? I will give you a data: according to the latest Survey of 2019, 15.4% of young people who have never tried cannabis would prove it in the case of legalization, a percentage that has increased by 3 points compared to 2016. This is the reality of the country where I live, Mr Errejón. Ladies and gentlemen, in the area of addictions, it is clear from the People's Parliamentary Group that, in view of greater accessibility, greater availability, greater standardisation, the perception of risk is less and this means an increase in consumption. This is a danger, especially in minors, because, in the end, we are sending them contradictory messages. As contradictory and incongruent are the initiatives that they present in this House with which they are already in progress. From my group we have argued that we should know the scientific field and, therefore, we ask for the white book for therapeutic use, because the use of cannabis derivatives for medical purposes in Spain should be taken on the basis of evidence of therapeutic efficacy, as for the rest of the medicines. Furthermore, it is an inconsistency, on the one hand, that we are allocating huge amounts to the prevention of drug use and, on the other hand, that you are seeking an integral law on cannabis. That is why we in my group are going to vote against this consideration. We don't share the bottom or the shape. And, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, I hope that you will not give in to your partners on such a serious issue of public health, because there are many occasions when we have seen them move away from the reality that we all Spaniards are living simply by keeping themselves in the blue bank. On International Breast Cancer Day, the best contribution we can make since the Congress of Deputies...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-19-CD211019.u59	Your time is up, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-19-CD211019.u60	... is working on prevention and avoiding drug use with the sole aim of earning years of life. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-19-CD211019.u61	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Viondi has the floor for the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-19-CD211019.u62	Thank you, President. Mr Errejon said that he was speaking honestly and we are going to give him back that honesty in words too. In his speech, I have never heard him talk about drugs or the consequences of taking drugs. Honestly, there are no good drugs or bad drugs, nor are the drugs left or right. Drugs are drugs and, mainly, those who have been most attacked in the history of this country are the most disadvantaged classes; those who have suffered most from drugs in this country have been the working class; those who lived and suffered in the 1980s and 1990s were mainly the working classes. [[applause]] The experience lived in Spain has to make us talk about drugs with great seriousness, with great rigor and mainly have to do it from the shared pain of the experience lived. Mr. Errejon, your law is wrong. It has many inconcretions, lack of legal rigor and, moreover, does not exactly differentiate the hemp, the plant that has the CBD and mainly the plant that has the THC, which is the one that has the psychoactive component. Trying to compare THC cannabis with alcohol or tobacco consumption is a mistake. Precisely, in this world in which we live, in Spain in 2021 we have the fight and the fight against smoking, because now we know the harmful effects that it has on health, which are not immediate, are in the long term, with more than 50,000 deaths per year from smoking in our country, which, by the way, is one of the main objectives of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, in point 3.A. Or when you talk about alcohol, how many people suffer from alcoholism? How many families suffer? You say it's at the foot of the street. I do not know which street you live in, I know what I live in and what the Socialist Parliamentary Group stands for. We know that, today, addictions remain a problem in this country and, therefore, when we talk about smoking cannabis and using a drug, we have to do it with rigour and seriousness. We have raised it in this house, in the seat of national sovereignty. The Basque Parliamentary Group has done so and we have signed it and supported the creation of a subcommission for medicinal and therapeutic use. We do so because it has been shown, with certain scientific evidence, that we can work on it and that international bodies have taken steps, but have not qualified it as a medicine. Here some parliamentary groups speak with a fatuity of a concept, which is that of a drug, which gives me some concern, because in the background everything is trivialized and when we talk about a drug we have to speak clearly. Heroin is a drug; opioids that come from heroin may have components that help, but when properly managed it happens as has happened in the United States with the opioid crisis, with more than half a million people who have died from overdose. The streets of Philadelphia or any street in the State of Philadelphia or New York suffer from the opiate crisis. That is why we want to have the debate rigorously and seriously, as the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party always does. [[Applauds]] And this debate we are going to have here and we are going to do it as we have always done, accompanied by science and health, because you have not talked about science or health either. We, in this experience that we have lived as a country, that we still suffer from the pandemic, who have been the vertebrating elements that have brought security to this country? Vaccines, doctors and nurses, health and science. When talking about a concept like cannabis and the drug itself that contains THC, it must be done rigorously and seriously, so, if there is a way to use medical and therapeutic cannabis we talk about it, because it can help people who suffer pain. The Socialist Parliamentary Group has met with the collectives and we have spoken about it infinitely. We are willing, we are so willing that even at our congress this weekend we have approved that we will promote that regulation of the use of medicinal therapeutic cannabis. But what we do not do, because we do not confuse, because we are a party of government and because we demonstrate it with our action, is to confuse smoking with its psychoactive components: with anxiety, with depression and with the damage it does to physical and mental health, Mr Errejón. You, who have done so much to defend mental health here, precisely when you start from an element that generates anxiety and depression and that harms young people. [[Applauds]] Because what you haven't said is that when young people are of formative age and use cannabis with THC they cause a great health problem. You don't comment? You tell us about mafias to legalize cannabis. You're not new to this. I recognize that you in this, in this, have been consistent: you said in 2016 that you wanted to regulate cannabis and prostitution. We too are consistent: we are not going to regulate cannabis as you propose and we are going to abolish prostitution as we have committed ourselves in our party. [[Applauds]] Because, for us, everything that deprives a person of liberty and his personal autonomy does not consider him freedom. That is a big difference between a ruling party, the majority left, and the minimum left. Look, you're talking about support. Of course, we have taken steps because there is scientific rigour, the health world is open to it and because there are 90% of Spaniards, as reflected in the CIS, who want to move forward in the field of medicinal cannabis therapy because it can help alleviate the pain and suffering of people with chronic diseases. But you are not in the street and you have no majority support from society and, above all, because what you have brought us here is a lack of sensitivity with all the testimony and suffering of people who suffer from addictions. Cannabis is no solution. It is a problem and, when we have to, we will do it as we Socialists do: well, with the support and consensus of science, of health and of the whole citizenry. [[Applauds]] That is why we do not accept his proposal for a law, because we are a party of government which, moreover, complies with international agreements: we are not going to break the agreement with the UN, neither with WHO nor with the European Union. We are neither Uruguay nor the State of Colorado. We are Spain and the Socialists govern it. And we will maintain our principles as we have always done with this matter. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-19-CD211019.u63	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-19-CD211019.u64	We move on to the agenda item on non-legislative proposals. We begin with the non-legislative proposal of the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group concerning the permanent conversion of the measures relating to housing and supplies provided for in the social shield. For the presentation of the initiative, Mr Matute García de Jalón has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-19-CD211019.u65	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, after the debate on cannabis, I come to talk to you about poverty and social exclusion. In short, I come to talk to you about a problem that affects not in other latitudes, not in impoverished countries, but in rich Europe, here in the Spanish State, millions of people. And I will do so, if I may, above all and fundamentally, with data. I am not going to waste too much time explaining the needs or the goodness of taking structural measures in the face of a problem that has been accompanying the Spanish State, like other opulent societies for decades, but I want to do so with data, to see if this is how we understand that behind the data, the cold numbers, there are people, and it is not my purpose to flood with data to make a tedious debate, but we understand the magnitude of the problem and the need to start doing things effectively, continuously, permanently and structurally. I'll give you some official data. The Spanish State's poverty rate at the end of 2020 was 21%, 0.3% higher than at the end of 2019. What does that mean? There are 9,829,000 people in poverty. In Euskal Herria, in the Basque Autonomous Community and Navarre, there are 284,000 people, 10%. Nor is it comfort, every person who is in a situation of exclusion is in itself a serious problem, and if there are many, the greater the problem. But look more. Since 1995 - in the historical series from 1995 to 2021 - the poverty rate in the Spanish State has never been below 18%, never. In other words, even in years when gross domestic product has been positive, even rising significantly, the poverty rate has not decreased. Therefore, we could draw a first conclusion: more gross domestic product does not necessarily bring more welfare. That is, it does not seem to be a necessary and sufficient condition to create more gross domestic product if it is not better distributed, because we are facing an increasingly unequal and centrifuging system of people. But I'm going with more data. The European Network to Combat Poverty and Social Exclusion, in a recent report it has published, said that the Spanish State loses positions on all indicators that are handled at international level. Read, the Arope, the Gini, the risk of poverty, the risk of severe poverty or others. Thus, in 2020, the Spanish state lost two positions compared to 2018 in the distance that separated it from the European average. That is to say, we are farther away from the European average in each of these indicators because the population of the Spanish State was more impoverished. To bring it to a higher level of achievement, the Arope Index of 2020 shows that 12 and a half million people, 26.4% of the population, more than one in four people living in the Spanish State, are at risk of poverty and/or social exclusion. But there's more. The severe poverty rate tells us that there are 3.3 million people who cannot cope with more than the four concepts that are understood as basic to a dignified life. These concepts, as you can imagine, include the right to housing; the right to employment; the right to access basic supplies; and the right to be able, in the end, to meet the material needs of human beings. Thus, in another indicator, that of the risk of poverty, we are told that 21%, 9,925,338 people, are already at risk of poverty; 45.2% of the Spanish population - make up the millions that means if there are more than 46 million citizens gathered in the current Spanish state - have difficulty reaching the end of the month. A second conclusion can also be drawn from this: that wealth is not being distributed, that wealth is not being redistributed, that it needs, that it is urgent, a tax reform that redistributes wealth. But I'm going with more data. These are from the report by Caritas and Foessa, also published recently. They say in it that by the end of 2020 there were 11 million people in exclusion: 6 in severe exclusion, which are 2 more than there were in 2018. In that same report, he refers to the latest Eurostat report of 2018. The Spanish State is below all 27 EU countries in health, disability, third age, childhood, housing or inclusion. A third conclusion can therefore also be drawn here: that we have an incomplete and insufficient social protection system and that it leaves more and more sections of the population behind. We do not throw this data at anyone; we do this to make visible a problem, for the invisible, those to whom we deny even their possibility of being visible because they are annoying to us, because they put us in front of the mirror of what we are unable to do, who do not usually have a voice. We believe and want firm positions and steps to be taken in these solutions. We do not want that which was said that no one would be left behind to become an unfinished mantra again, an incomplete mantra, because it is not yet being achieved. And let us not deny - and we also want to say with the same roundness as I said earlier - that the social shield has been a good measure; we have supported it and will support it as many times as it was necessary. We believe that what needs to be done with the social shield is to draw the lesson that it is still necessary on the basis of the data that I have pointed out, which is data that comes from before the pandemic engulfed in our lives. We have also seen more things, that there has been a slip of the different strata of society, as the Caritas report says, towards situations of greater precariousness and social exclusion, an unstoppable escape to a more unequal society where the group that grows the most is that of the most disadvantaged. Now, finally, maybe we understand that the social elevator, if it exists, only works to get down, never to get up. But, as I said, the social shield is necessary and what we propose is that if the social shield is necessary and housing, energy, water or the Internet are human rights that are sometimes systematically violated, what needs to be done is to find spaces that guarantee and shield it. We and we from Euskal Herria Bildu, from the sovereign left, clearly say this to the left forces of this House: here is our hand stretched out to reach agreements; here is our sincere will and willingness to move forward in a line of protection towards the most disadvantaged sectors of society. We know where we want to go and we are aware that our objectives are far from what we can achieve here today. But we are also aware that every step is important, that every step that is taken can be despised or valued, but if it is a step in the right direction it is a step that brings us closer to a more just solution, too, in what has to do with poverty and exclusion. That is why we have tried to negotiate a compromise amendment with those who have tabled an amendment to us, and that is why we are finalising an agreement with the proposing forces of that amendment, because we believe it is important that we understand that a country is not richer if all its citizens are poorer; that a country is not stronger if each of its citizens is increasingly struggling to reach the end of the month; that a country will ultimately be a more dignified, decent and fairer country when its people perceive it as such and not as they want to say from the media. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-19-CD211019.u66	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the defence of the amendment made by your group, the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations, Mrs Garrido Gutiérrez, intervenes.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-19-CD211019.u67	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. The impact of COVID on the lives of all people has been terrible, but, as geographer David Harvey said a few months ago, this crisis knows about race, knows about gender and knows about class. The greatest impact of the COVID crisis and its serious health and economic consequences has been concentrated on the most vulnerable groups. The destruction of employment generated by this crisis has been the most serious in such a short period of time since we have records. Although it has impacted on all people and on all lives, it has done so unevenly, affecting different sectors and age groups, especially affecting young people and migrants. These groups should also be added to women who, in addition, have faced an overload, both in paid work, since many essential sectors are feminized work, and in care work, which has fallen on their backs. The political decision to get out of this crisis by putting the needs of citizens at the centre has been of vital importance. Labour policies and social protection implemented by different administrations have helped cushion the impact of the pandemic on inequality and poverty. The deployment of ERTE, together with the rest of the social benefits deployed, has increased the redistributive capacity of the public sector. Even so - and I want to stress this - the data is chilling and we cannot be triumphant. We are aware that there is much more to be done and that the measures are insufficient. The pandemic has generated a significant extension and worsening of situations of poverty and social exclusion, as already explained here with some data. According to the first available estimates, one million people could have fallen into the situation of relative poverty and some eight hundred thousand in severe poverty. If we look at the figures that come from organizations like Caritas, we talk about eleven million people in exclusion and almost six million people in a situation of exclusion and severe poverty, one million more people than before the arrival of the pandemic. We must not forget, and that is important, that behind these figures there are faces and there are real people in very difficult situations. In this regard, the measures adopted by Royal Decree-Law 16/2021 of 6 August, which adopts the measures we call the social shield, have provided measures that have helped to alleviate this serious situation of many families. That is why we agree with this proposal, to emphasize the extension of these measures which would be in force until 31 October. In the area of the right to housing and the guarantee of supplies, important measures have been taken: the suspension of launches without alternative housing, the extraordinary extension of rental contracts, the moratoriums on the payment of rental rents or mortgages, the prohibition on the cutting of supplies and the moratorium on the payment of basic supplies. All these measures have had their impact. Thanks to the social shield, and according to data from the General Council of the Judiciary, in 2020 evictions have decreased by about 46%. In short, there is no doubt that it is a good measure to extend these policies through emergency legislation, in this case through the adoption of the relevant royal decree-laws, as long as this is necessary and the only way to protect the most vulnerable groups. On that issue, on that extension, we wanted to emphasize the amendment we have tabled. I should like to add that, at the same time, we must work intensively to ensure that the right to decent housing and also to ensure that access to basic supplies are permanently part of our legal system. There we have the housing law, which will soon enter this House. This rule, for the first time, will regulate housing in its social function, that is, with the need for housing to be provided to families, not as a commodity or as a financial asset, as has been done in the past forty-fifty years. Eskerrik asko. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-19-CD211019.u68	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Guerra López has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-19-CD211019.u69	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you that at today's sitting we can recall some of the measures that the Spanish Government has taken to deal with COVID, measures, most of them, which, as you know, are still in force today, despite the fact that we have left the confinement months ago. Because if something has been done by this Government in the fight against the pandemic, it is exemplary in its fight not only against the health crisis, but also against the economic and social crisis. Never before in our country's history had the economy been hibernated to protect people at the health level, but at the same time to sustain their jobs. The Government of that country had not shaken its pulse by promoting economic and social measures that had allowed the construction of a social shield so as not to leave anyone behind. I assure you that for us, for this parliamentary group, it is not a mantra: ERTE, moratorium on mortgages and rents, suspension of evictions, guarantee of supplies; and also, increase of the interprofessional minimum wage and pension reform; and also, new citizenship rights that have come to stay, outside the COVID, such as, for example, minimum living income. In what the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party called Paguita and the ladies and gentlemen of VOX called rations cards, this government has invested more than EUR 3 billion, which has benefited more than 800 000 people and more than 400 000 families. It is against this structural poverty and against this pandemic that the Government of Pedro Sánchez has fought with a wide range of public aid, urgent responses to situations that have arisen, political decisions in the short, medium and long term, in the midst of the pandemic, against the clock. And the Government has done so with the support of some political forces and with the disloyalty to which we are accustomed some others, those who love Spain only in word, never with facts; those who love Spain so much that, instead of joining the Government and Spanish society in the fight against the pandemic, they decided to strengthen the coronavirus with their own virus, the virus of lies, the virus of deception and the virus of disloyalty. His virus is born from fear of the other. His virus was born on June 1, 2018, when corruption in the Spanish government ended, when it stopped the lordships of the People's Party from using their class interests to enrich themselves at the expense of the Spanish and Spanish. And, no, corruption and lack of transparency is not the past of the People's Party, and if not to be asked by Mr Casado and the chairman of his committee of mayors, Mr García Albiol, or rather to ask the citizens of Badalona; go there and ask them what they think of the fact that Mr Albiol has a society in a tax haven like Belize. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] As I said, his virus is born of fear, seeing in the Government of Spain a team of people connected with the reality of the country and the needs of its people. And it is that this government and this parliamentary group demonstrate every day that they know perfectly well where they must be. Unlike you, we and we are on the side of citizenship, and I can assure you that we will continue to be on the side, with rent subsidies for vulnerable people, guaranteeing basic supplies to households without resources, with minimum vital supply or with the promotion of the social and thermal bonus. This is how the draft General State Budgets for 2022, the most social budgets of our history, is moving forward. This government and this parliamentary group are going to follow the canyon by making economic, social, educational or housing decisions to respond to the needs of all, of each of the Spanish, and we are going to continue to do so despite you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party and of VOX, because, unlike you, the Socialists and I knew that we could face this unprecedented crisis in a just way, without abandoning the most vulnerable in our community. That's how we've worked and I assure you that's how we'll continue to work. President, I should like to inform the House that my group, together with the United States, is working on a compromise amendment to extend these measures as long as necessary. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-19-CD211019.u70	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor at the time of the joint parliamentary group's fixing of positions.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-19-CD211019.u71	Thank you very much, Mr President. In these worrying times of increasing inflation and with the IMF and the Bank of Spain warning that the government's revenue forecast is oversized, neither Mr. Matute García de Jalón nor his amenders have revealed the mechanism of the banknote making machine that allows the temporary measures relating to housing and supplies contemplated in the so-called social shield to be made permanent. Nor have they explained to us where they are going to detract from the economic resources to deal with the accounting gap to which this kind of blank cheques would take us from the General Budgets of the State. Although they do not tell us about what matches, I could give them some clue, such as the reduction of unnecessary public spending, which starts right here, in the first row of the Chamber, that of the twenty-two blue seats accompanying Pedro Sánchez, with a huge ministerial structure created around him, which in no small case is of proven futility and which drags us into the blackout, the cold and the rationing. Ladies and gentlemen, the EH Bildu Group is reaching out to the management of an executive who has just presented to the Courts the budget project, from which nearly EUR 13 billion is drawn, which has served in the current exercise to combat the pandemic, a very large amount of money which will not, in large part, be received by the autonomous communities of the common system. The Government has also failed to fulfil its commitment to reform the autonomous funding system that supports health, education, social services and dependency. In other words, the economic social shield and essential public services are going to suffer a huge cut. Save whoever you can. On the day it has been known that almost 28% of Asturians - 28% - are in poverty, the best social shield would be the finite of this government, which will bring Spain to ruin. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-19-CD211019.u72	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr García Adanero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-19-CD211019.u73	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Matute, once again I have to tell you that Euskal Herria is equal to chimera and entelequia and, within the unity of Spain, as you well know, the Foral Community of Navarre, the Basque Autonomous Community. [[Applauds]] And I understand the deal they're going to reach, because it's part of the mutual bleaching they're doing. I'll explain myself. Yesterday you stood as spokespersons for the terrorist band ETA and told us all how happy we had to be for how generous the terrorist band had been for wanting, at some point, to stop killing, to stop killing, to stop extortioning. That, in addition, was added to it by saying that they felt the pain of the victims themselves. What has changed with regard to the speech? For that is all that has changed, which they said before, but now they have the Government's applause. That is what has changed, and there, of course, is the mutual whitening between the Government and, in this case, Euskal Herria Bildu. Because if anyone were really concerned about the pain of the victims what they would have said in any act - you here today or any of the spokespersons of Euskal Herria Bildu in this rostrum, in the seat of national sovereignty - it is that the terrorist band ETA should never have existed, that it was a band of terrorists, murderers, extortioners, kidnappers; what they would have said is that they would have helped to clarify the almost four hundred murders that remain unclarified, that they would have contributed to it; that they would have stopped paying tribute to the people who regret having belonged to the terrorist gang. That's all anyone would say if they really felt what the victims were going through. [[Applauds]] But since all of that is a lie, it all serves to continue with bleaching. Once again we will say in this rostrum - and we will say this whenever you need - that as long as you do not clearly condemn the terrorist band ETA, because you have not done so, while the Government of Spain, without you condemning it, continues to bargain with you, the Government of Spain will be legitimizing the terror of the terrorist band, because it cannot be negotiating with those who continue not to denounce, without saying and without commenting that that was a tremendous mistake, that it was a drama, that there should never be ETA and that you...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-19-CD211019.u74	Your Honor, one second, please. On the basis of article 102.1, he drew attention to what we are dealing with.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-19-CD211019.u75	Yes, Mr. President...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-19-CD211019.u76	One second. I remind you that the title was a non-law proposal concerning the conversion into permanent of measures relating to housing and supplies provided for in the social shield. [[A Member of the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress speaks words that are not perceived]] He's practically wasted his time. I ask you, please, to refer to this. Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-19-CD211019.u77	Mr President, I am trying to comment to the House, but to the whole of Spain, that this motion is part of the mutual whitening between the Government of Spain and Euskal Herria Bildu. [[Applauds]] Then, to explain it, I have to say how they arrived; that is, why Euskal Herria Bildu supported Sánchez and why Sánchez now deals with Euskal Herria Bildu. Thank you very much. [[Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the popular parliamentary groups in Congress and VOX, some of these standing positions]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-19-CD211019.u78	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Barandiaran Benito has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-19-CD211019.u79	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. President. Apart from the fact that I too am going to 'atize' Bildu in some matter, it is not too appropriate to allow here any speech, depending on who is involved, to be free while others are cut off when they deviate from the object of their speech. I believe that we are applying an unequal parliamentary treatment. I am going to the issue, to the GNP presented by Mr Matute of Bildu, which refers not only to prolong, but also to try to definitively establish those measures of Royal Decree-Law 16/2021, formerly 8/2021, and even in other matters 30/2020 and 11/2020, which provided for protective measures, the social shield, relating to energy supplies, the abolition of evictions and elevations procedures or the postponement of rent payments. Those measures, as I said, had an object of protection in a specific situation, which was the COVID pandemic, and on all these occasions my group showed its opposition not so much to the content but above all to the form of action, pointing out that those measures were due to matters falling within the competence of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country and that, where appropriate, they were incompatible with the division of competition. That is why in most cases we abstained and did not vote against the social content they had. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, we are very surprised by the presentation by Bildu of this GNP, and not only because in some way it calls into question the full capacity of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country and of Navarre in the matters concerned, but also because it attempts to reverse in some way the full capacity and the possibility of participation that its own group can have in the formation of these policies in its sovereign sphere or in its national sphere, to say the least. A few days ago - you will recall - at the plenary session of the Basque Parliament on 15 October, the Lehendakari Iñigo Urkullu gave them the following reflection. In Euskadi we have a social housing policy. The entire housing policy is dedicated to rent. Almost one in three public housing units that were built in 2020 in the Spanish state has been in Euskadi. We have a social rental park of 26,000 homes. More than 33,000 families have been assisted in paying the rent. The Bizigune social rental programme has been awarded as one of the best European initiatives in this area and as one of the most innovative. More than 2,200 young people have benefited from a grant through the Gazte Lagun programme. I would like to conclude my speech by acknowledging that there is room for improvement and by making the offer to explore with you the concrete opportunity offered by this year's draft budgets. Well, ladies and gentlemen of the Bildu Group, social housing policies for Basque citizens and Basque citizens are carried out in Basque institutions. There you have a remarkable parliamentary force, combined with parliamentary work in its right or right terms, which should enable you to participate in the conditioning, elaboration and participation of those own policies which, for their part - the Lehendakari has already told you - were already quite successful. I repeat that social and housing policies for Basques and Basques are done in Basque institutions and do not plant them in other institutions and with policies that, with all due respect, are neither national nor sovereign nor have anything to do with that. I encourage you to participate in these institutions of your own and in the elaboration of these policies, and not in others that - I have to say - may be located in a left-wing sphere but are not progressive. On the area of social cohesion that exists in the Basque Country, go to the Gini index, go to the social progress index and also go to the Arope index regarding the existence of the risk of poverty; compare what exists in the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country with what exists in the European environment, not in the State, but in the European environment, and you will see what are the repercussions of progressive policies such as those put in place by the Basque Government, by the way, of a coalition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-19-CD211019.u80	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Giménez Giménez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-19-CD211019.u81	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, in Citizens we have acted with the utmost responsibility during this unfortunate pandemic, and I believe that we have demonstrated this very well. From the very beginning we began to think about the measures to be taken, proposed them and supported all those that we considered essential. In addition to the health response, action was needed to enable families to cope with the great loss of income and employment, to ensure that no one was left without supplies, and to solve the great problem of arriving at the end of the month in order to cope with the payment of electricity, water and gas. These supplies are essential for any citizen to have access to a dignified life. Moreover, we went further and asked the Government to include Internet connection as one of the services included, as I will remind you later. However, these exceptional measures cannot become a structural response of our system to situations of extreme vulnerability. The gravity of the crisis justifies the measures, but we cannot now use ad hoc measures to solve structural problems. They're structural problems. Our welfare state has been showing for years that it is insufficient to reduce poverty among the most vulnerable sectors of our society. Spain is one of the countries whose economic transfers reduce to a lesser extent the percentage of people in this situation. We already know the Arope rate data: by 2020 Spain had 26.4% of people at risk of poverty, compared to 25.3% in the previous year. And this data does not take into account the situation that has caused us to pass the COVID invoice. One in four people living in Spain are at risk of poverty or social exclusion. I could give many figures, but I believe that what we have to take into account is what the situation is and that structural problems deserve comprehensive answers. On the one hand, as we know the profile of people in vulnerable situations, what we have to do is to establish specific policies that will boost training and access to employment. Because, ladies and gentlemen, assistanceism does not solve the cycles of poverty, as I have said many times in this rostrum, but what solves poverty is that people can access training, education and decent employment. That is what breaks the structural causes of poverty. [[Applauds]] In addition, there must be specific employment plans and inclusive unemployment. I also want to say that the European funds must be used at this time. If we do not make a specific employment policy for the groups that are below, those who are worst off, we will be able to improve our unemployment rates but we will continue to leave the most vulnerable people in line and without covering them. These inclusive employment policies must therefore have specific measures for the most vulnerable, which are always forgotten by a large part of your ladies and gentlemen. With regard to minimum living income, I would like to say that I will include it in this part of the social bonus. We have so many people in extreme poverty and we must bear in mind that this great measure, which we also support because we believe in social shields, is not having the success we expected, because it is not reaching half of the families receiving the minimum living income itself. Alongside this, I believe that the pandemic has shown that access to the Internet has to be addressed independently and in an integral way. Internet access should be a priority for vulnerable groups. We believe that the thermal social bonus and the electrical social bonus should be improved. In our parliamentary group we have already proposed that we should increase the discount on the light bill for vulnerable consumers by 30%, reaching a 50% discount for severe groups; that we should raise the income limits so that these bonds can be accessed and that no one will be left behind. But when we also talk about housing policies themselves, I do not think we can bear the responsibility to guarantee access to housing for individuals, large foreclosures or real estate. We cannot charge individuals with the inaction of the Administration. There has been no housing policy either on the part of the Socialist Party or on the part of the People's Party in our country. It's been mean. Investment in social housing has been harmful, both with one Government and another. Vulnerable families need access to social rents, overcoming the barrier of discrimination in access to housing. It is totally outrageous that we have cores of sub-holidays and chabolism in our country. What do I want to show you with this? That this proposal is not enough, that what is needed for a structural problem is comprehensive measures and responses. For this we want to work in Citizens, not to put patches and not to solve in a brave and adequate way the situation of need in the field of housing of many of our families. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-19-CD211019.u82	Thank you so much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Rego Candaimil has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-19-CD211019.u83	Thank you, Mr. President. We bring to debate the permanent conversion of the package of social protection measures designed to address the most serious consequences in the socio-economic sphere of the health emergency, particularly in cases of social situations of vulnerability in the fields of employment, housing or basic supplies, which were established as extraordinary and temporary. In BNG's view, there are two basic questions that need to be answered. One: Is it necessary? Two: Is it possible? I think the first responds on its own. The pandemic aggravated social vulnerability situations that in many cases already existed and that are not resolved. One fact we have just heard is that there is 22% poverty in Galicia. We are talking, therefore, about life, about the conditions of dignity that thousands of people need to move forward. That is why we agree that the completion scheduled for 31 October of these extraordinary and temporary measures cannot be allowed to threaten the living conditions of citizens. As an example and as Bildu points out, with the end of the ban on evictions there would be about eighty thousand evictions, which would indeed be a scandal. The answer to the second question is also obvious. Beyond the fact that in social protection policy everything that is necessary must be made possible, experience in these months makes it clear that it is. We are therefore faced with a question of political will on the part of the parties of the Government. The BNG will vote in favour of this GNP. A transactional has been agreed that converts...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-19-CD211019.u84	Your Honor, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-19-CD211019.u85	... This extension is on a permanent basis. In any case, we shall vote in favour.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-19-CD211019.u86	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Boadella Esteve has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-19-CD211019.u87	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you, Mr. President. We are dealing with the non-legislative proposal presented by Bildu, and I believe that we must first reflect that they will find us in that phrase of leaving no one behind, on issues about the most disadvantaged, the most vulnerable, the people who lose their habitual home or who are unable to pay for supplies. It is clear that these issues concern us all, and in politics one of the noblest actions we can do is to ensure that these situations do not happen. The issue is not the concern we all have about these situations of vulnerability, but what measures or solutions we bring. The solution currently put forward by the non-legislative proposal is to extend the measures, to make them final, or, with the transaction, to extend them if necessary. Our bet would be to address these problems, seek solutions. I'll give you an example, even if it's very local. I come from Barcelona city. In Barcelona city for years there were no people on the street without a roof or people selling handkerchiefs at traffic lights, but all this has reappeared in recent years. The problem is not to eliminate these people, as if they did not exist, the problem is that the city's policies have changed and it seems that there are certain political forces that this sad landscape is doing well; that these situations exist is doing well to justify their political discourse. Our political discourse is that these situations cannot be given, first out of consideration and respect for these people and, second, because public action has to do, in this case, to protect these people, to activate the policies of housing first, to make a determined action of support. Therefore, it is not so much the patch and take measures that were taken through the royal decree-law and in the midst of the state of alarm so that vulnerable people do not remain homeless or do not have their supplies cut off, that of course we share them, but rather what it is about is to focus on policies that generate economic growth, because only if wealth is generated can wealth be distributed, to focus on the obsession to grow, to create a space in which these people give opportunities, not to stop evictions, but to guarantee the right to housing by the public administrations without this ending up affecting the middle class, which is forced to process compensation and generate more paperwork. I want to put on record, but I don't want anyone to get mixed up in this. Those who need it the most must be cared for, but not on the basis of extending these measures from the social shield, but of policies that get these people out of poverty, that give these people opportunities to grow, as so many others have grown in these times. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-19-CD211019.u88	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Rufián Romero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-19-CD211019.u89	Good afternoon. Just a previous sub-paragraph. Mr Boadella seems to me to have said something like that before Colau there were no poor people in Barcelona. I will not be the defender of Colau here, but with Xavier Trias there were quite a few poor people in Barcelona too, I can assure you. [[Applauds]] I will take advantage of this initiative presented to us by EH Bildu, specifically the extraordinary parliamentarian and friend Oskar Matute, to try to raise some reflections. The first is what a homeland is. Because here we are the anti-Spanish, according to some of you, defending very simple things, of first decency, of first lefts, in fact, that is that people in situations like this have to eat, have to live, ultimately. What is a homeland? For you, who defend the homeland so much and that, in fact, some of you have an ever larger Spanish flag on the mask, what is a homeland? What is it? Is a homeland a flag? Is a homeland a king? A country is a football team? [[Some Members: No!]] [[Some Members: No!]] Is a homeland a king? [[Some Members: No!]] All right, kids, all right. No, it's not. I'm going to do another thought, which may not like or surprise some. I, as you know, come from an extraordinary country called Catalonia, with a history, with a language and with an extraordinary people, but also with extraordinary data of social exclusion. Knowing that, in fact, saying this and, above all, wanting to fight this does nothing less to me. There are many people in my country, there are many people in your country who do not get excited with the same symbols as you. There are many people in Catalonia who do not get excited by a stellate; there are many people who do not know Els Segadors. In fact, there are many people in Catalonia who do not think, who do not speak, who do not feel in Catalan, many people. This forces us to try to question them in another way, because we understand that the country is the other. What are you forcing us to do? To try to talk about what, unfortunately, is shared by the vast majority of our people, which is misery, unemployment, precariousness, poverty, the struggle for feminism, the struggle for the environment. Those are the best flags, because the left - and I believe that with this initiative EH Bildu proves it - will not win by waves of nationalism; it will win by waves of hope. Catalonia has 36% youth unemployment. Catalonia has 14% female unemployment. In Catalonia, 4,000 SMEs were destroyed last year. In Catalonia there are differences in per capita income between neighbourhoods of 35 000 euros. In Catalonia there are differences in life expectancy between ten-year-old neighbourhoods: in fact, ten years more live in one neighborhood than in another in Barcelona. In Catalonia, one in three children is at risk of social exclusion. In Catalonia there are a million poor people. In Catalonia, consumption of psychopharmaceuticals has increased threefold. In Catalonia - and in Spain too - the first cause of death among youth is suicide. And that I know this, that I say this and that I want to fight this doesn't make me less independent, it doesn't make me less republican and, obviously, it doesn't make me less lefty; it makes me more useful, because this policy is going to be useful, isn't it? The left, I repeat, will not win by waves of nationalism, will win by waves of hope. It's a very simple formula to say, but very complicated to do, but if we don't, we'll be giving a whole generation to the far right. Work less to work everyone, produce what is needed, because we only have one planet, and redistribute everything. To work less to work everyone, to produce what is needed and to redistribute everything; that is the future. If we are not able to fight for it, if we are not able to give real freedom to people, we will be giving it to the far right. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-19-CD211019.u90	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Esteban Calonje has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-19-CD211019.u91	Thank you very much, Mr President. Arnaldo Otegi's party, a member of the terrorist band ETA, comes to talk to us about the social shield. Arnaldo Otegi's party, which does not condemn ETA terrorism, comes to tell us about the social shield. ETA's political arm comes to talk about housing. I will tell you, ladies and gentlemen, about ETA's housing policy. The headquarters of the Guardia Civil in Zaragoza was a four-storey building in which 40 families and a total of one hundred and eighty people lived. The 250 kilos of masonry that the terrorists, represented by Bildu in this House, caused to explode collapsed the four floors of the housing building and the expansive wave also affected the adjacent houses; eighty-eight wounded, many of whom suffered amputations; eleven dead, including Angel, Esther and Miriam, the three-year-old brother and nieces of our fellow MP José Alcaraz. [[Applauds]] Or the Guardia Civil headquarters in Vic, 70 kilometers from Barcelona, which was a three-storey housing building where forty civilian guards lived with their women and a total of twenty-two children. When the ETA bomb exploded, most guards were covering a sports competition and only women and children remained in the barracks. The three floors of the building collapsed. In addition, the expansive wave affected some fifty homes on the Generality Walk, where the barracks were located. Adjacent to the barracks was the school of the Sacred Heart and in the courtyard were playing fifty children. The next day in the morning, the death of ten persons and forty-four wounded was confirmed, including five with a reserved prognosis and an eight-year-old girl who suffered the amputation of one leg. That is the housing policy of ETA and today its representatives bring us a proposal for a law that aims to turn the current anti-discharge mechanism into a structural one and perpetuate the worst measures taken in Europe, with regard to the pandemic, to enshrine illegal okupation, so that property owners cannot recover their homes and that their tenants become okupas. This government of treason, which applauds Alberto Rodríguez, deputy of Podemos, a criminal convicted of kicking the police; this government of treason, which is dedicated to whitening ETA, pacts with the murderers of its own comrades and brings the assassins in prison to the Basque provinces; this government of treason will say that the ocupation is a lie, that we are feeding a ghost, as we were told two weeks ago in this same Congress, when we denounced it. But the truth is that the Socialist Party knows that illegal octopus is a growing problem; if the Catalan socialists and the Castilian-Manchegoes have told it, if they have demanded that they treat this scourge at the congress that their party has had this weekend in Valencia. What the government calls a social shield is paid by small tenants who are extorted and blackmailed by their tenants, who become okupas. Thus, the government shields the 'inqui okupas' with its social shield. In this disastrous management of the pandemic, gentlemen of the Government, you have not taken into account the different realities. The owners have not been affected by the pandemic, have not lost their jobs, have not been subjected to ERTE, have not become ill, have not lost family members? What is the fault of the owners that you are not able to protect those families who cannot cope with a rent? [[Applauds]] When they legislate, they have to do it for everyone, and they are encouraging illegal octopus and promoting crime. They walk on the decency side, they walk on the good side, they walk on the Spanish side. Step away from Otegi's party and listen to Ortega Lara's party. I assure you that the Spaniards are much closer to José Antonio Ortega Lara than to Bildu. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 5 p.m.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-19-CD211019.u92	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mrs Cruz-Guzmán García has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-19-CD211019.u93	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin my speech with a very special memory of Irene Villa. Thirty years ago I was sitting in the classroom of the College of Irish Women in Bami, Seville, the same one Irene was going to in Madrid. When our professor of philosophy came in to tell us about the terrible attack, she told us: you could have been any of you. [[Applauds]] Among all the companions we wrote him a letter and sent him a huge teddy bear that carried all our Seville affection inside, which in a short time became a real admiration for their values, which Mary Ward transmitted to them and also her mother: joy, resistance, authenticity and forgiveness. Even for those who don't ask, even those who don't want to. And his continuing complaint. We are here and what we want is what we always want: memory, dignity and justice. From this rostrum, today and always, on the part of our Group, you will have it; an obligatory memory and respect for all the victims. Mr Sánchez, respect that does not degrade our group, but dignifies it, because the more than three hundred unanswered murders and the tributes to those who sowed terror in Spain are unworthy. Because people can be subjected in many ways: through fear and terror, as so many years tried unsuccessfully, but with great pain, the terrorist band ETA. Or with economic submission, with measures that make society permanently dependent on the rulers, with the measures that bring us here to discuss them. The Sánchez Government is still subject to the independence groups, and we have been able to see this in the General Budgets, which will cause one of the biggest territorial breakdowns in our country. Today we will also check the degree of government subordination to the EH Bildu Group and its position vis-à-vis the defence of private property. At this point, we don't know who's bleaching who anymore. Ladies and gentlemen, these measures that we are proposing do not protect the most vulnerable, I submit them. And, Mrs. Guerra, the government has not been exemplary. We have been exemplary for the Spanish and Spanish companies in the conduct of this crisis, because we have supported among all the exceptional measures that the Government has developed, even when the Constitution has been missed, such as preventing affected tenants from having compensation. They comply with the Royal Decree-Law 37/2020, because they have already caused great legal uncertainty, an increase in lateness and an increase in octopus, and the loss of the trust of the owners, who have to be the key part of housing policies in Spain. Faced with the tragedy of the evictions, it was the government of Mariano Rajoy that developed a moratorium and President Sánchez has extended it again. They continue to implement our measures, which are the ones that work, also in housing access policies. But nothing has to do with the evictions with the ocupation. My group's position is clear at this point: otupation is an illegal way of accessing the housing we will fight with all our strength to defend private property without any cracks. [[Applauds]] A phenomenon that grows worryingly, without the development of defence mechanisms for owners. Every day, forty new homes are occupied by the Okupas. Right, Paco, Elena, Sandra? Mr Matute, do you know what number of Spaniards you want to include in these Bolivarian measures? More than 12.5 million Spaniards. Don't fool them with these measures because they don't deserve it. When you ask for the sine die postponement for rents for vulnerable people, do you know how many pensioners and small businesses survive thanks to a rental income resulting from the saving of their entire life's work? What about vulnerable tenants? If you really want to help them, it requires Sánchez to control the unorthodox price of light, to expand the housing stock through public-private collaboration, as does Andalusia or Madrid; to help young people to access housing, as do Castilla and León; to promote guarantees, as does Murcia or to manage social rents, as is done in Galicia. It calls for social policies to be implemented. Or do you want me to remind the people who are reaching the minimum income? Only one in four applicants. In short, ask the Government to solve the problems of the Spanish instead of charging them again to the private sector. These populist measures do not work. The control of rents increases them - look to Germany - and the promotion of ocupation drives investors away - look to Catalonia -. And I end up making a special denunciation of the attack by the arbitrariness of this proposal on the companies and self-employed, which are the locomotive of our country. Ladies and gentlemen, this GNP has a visible part and a hidden interest: to whitewash those who follow with the tributes to ETA terrorists, although they seem to regret the obscene expectation of reading a text that seems to be, in which the word "forgive" is not included. Well, your honors, both of you, those you see and those you hide, my group will say no. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-19-CD211019.u94	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Matute García de Jalón, do you accept your group's amendments?
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-19-CD211019.u95	We shall now proceed to vote on a compromise amendment that we have reached with the amending groups, and that will be the text that is put to the vote.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-19-CD211019.u96	All right. Thank you very much. - THE JOINT Parliamentary GROUP ON PUBLIC RECOVERY OF HYDROELECRIC CENTRALS. [[THE LORD VEHI AND THE LORD BUTRAN]] [[File number 162/000821]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-19-CD211019.u97	We continue with the non-law proposal of the Joint Parliamentary Group, on the public recovery of hydroelectric power plants. [[Mrs Vehi and Mr Botran]] For the presentation of the initiative, Mrs Vehí Cantenys has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-19-CD211019.u98	Thank you, President. Is the sun someone's? Does the water own it? And whose wind is it? It's a matter of rabies. You will remember, for example, the sun tax imposed by the People's Party in 2015, which claimed that people will pay even more to the Electric Network for the production of self-consumption of energy with solar plates, and that the Socialist Party, when it arrived at the government, fell. The same Socialist Party that today, for example, together with Podemos, is about to make a transfer of European funds to the big energy companies to make macro photovoltaic parks, without returning a single euro of the benefits they will make with the wind and with the sun to the territory. Or we can talk about the issue of hydroelectric power plants, which is what today's GNP is about. The hydroelectric power stations are mainly distributed by the Pyrenees, which use the water jumps to produce energy. They have concessions that are either expired in many cases and continue to be exploited, or they are fraudulent because the date of commencement of the concessions has been distorted, or they are about to expire and, either an intervention is made or, instead of going into public hands, they will continue in private hands. Because, do you know what happens when the concessions expire? That either the exploitation does not end, as I said, and the companies continue to exploit it fraudulently, or they continue to have a new concession because the Administration, instead of wondering if it can be in public hands, continues to make private concessions. In fact, five public reversions have been achieved in Aragon and have cost the municipalities an unprecedented judicial battle. What does this GNP want? Ask for other things. The first is to investigate the state of concessions for all hydroelectric power stations and possible frauds. He even called on the National Commission on Markets and Competition to investigate possible law fraud and to return illegally earned money in the event of fraud. The second is to work so that hydroelectric power stations can operate at the service of the municipalities. We are in an unprecedented climate crisis, at a time of unprecedented economic crisis and that municipalities can have public power plants can be one of the ways to democratize access to energy. And the third is the creation of a hydrographic confederation of its own for the Garona and that the Catalan Water Agency can manage the Catalan part of the Ebro. We are aware that this GNP is certainly not going to be approved despite the importance of the issue. In fact, we wanted to thank both the Members responsible for Podemos and Citizens for their willingness and work. Finally, on a point of order from the House, we are not going to accept any amendments in order to be able to vote on GNP by points so that we can find greater consensus. I have already told the Bureau that we are going to ask for the point vote and we are not going to accept any amendments. I also wanted to thank the PSOE Member for her willingness and work, but we regret her party's political line. The PSOE refuses to investigate the bad practices of large energy companies. The truth is that last week we spoke from this very rostrum of the good direction of the Royal Decree 17/2021, because it seemed that it was on the line not only of controlling the energy market, but of finding solutions to the exploitation of water resources in its article 10, but it seems that when it comes to guaranteeing democratic energy production the PSOE always goes with the strong. Looks like the same is going to happen with the housing law. Let's hope we're wrong, because you wouldn't understand much. We will continue with the issue, even though this GNP is not approved today. We have already announced this, because it is important not only to investigate concessions, but to ensure that energy is a fundamental element of democracy in the Spanish State, because it is essential that there is no energy poverty in the situation in which we are and with the scenario of a shortage of raw materials that opens up to us in the coming months. As the environmental groups say, ecology without redistribution of wealth is something similar to gardening and, therefore, what there is is not only to look for and investigate new sources of energy that are sustainable, but also that people can have access to them and that it is not the same companies that always work with it. We will continue with the issue. To conclude, we only have to quote the one that was a great Zapatista proclamation at the time: for everyone, everything. And, above all, the water that comes from the people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-19-CD211019.u99	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] In order to defend the amendments put forward by your groups, Mrs Martínez Granados is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-19-CD211019.u100	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I want you to address my first words to our colleague Joan Mesquida, who has not been with us for a year now and we continue to keep him in our thoughts. [[Applauds]] The CUP proposal is a clear example, as it could not otherwise be, of populism and nationalism. They identify a problem that really exists, point to an ideological enemy that is only in their imagination and propose crazy measures. Nothing new under the sun, if not because, in fact, the problem exists and is real, and because of so much shooting in the air there are a couple of times they do hit the target. We therefore believe that it is a text that can and should be greatly improved, and that is why the Liberals, who always work for useful policy, have tabled a number of constructive amendments. Because, gentlemen of the UPC, the demonisation of the private sector that you are doing in your GNP has neither feet nor heads, not to mention that you are proposing the creation of new autonomous bodies that respond more to nationalist criteria than to criteria of efficiency and effectiveness. The chiringuitos of Catalan nationalism of all life, come on. They are already advanced that the citizens' amendments have a purely constructive purpose and are aimed at reorienting the position towards three priorities: contributing to the lowering of electricity prices and the creation of sustainable jobs; protecting the principle of rationality and non-discrimination between the public and the private; and upholding the principles of efficiency and efficiency. Ladies and gentlemen, you and I know - and we know it because reality is clumsy and because history and comparison between countries proves it - that a public enterprise would not solve the problem of rising light in the short term. And why wouldn't I fix it? Because the problem is not an anticompetitive practice, but, if anything, that the market is effectively reflecting the costs and externalities of electricity generation. A public undertaking will not be able to make gas cheaper and the cost of emission allowances will not be saved, so the marginal price would remain unchanged. Ladies and gentlemen, with which it is falling we cannot under any circumstances allow a public undertaking, not energy, to operate at a loss, for inefficiency or for unfair competition with the rest of the undertakings. In the case of energy, it would also involve lowering the bill through a mere accounting subterfuge, because in practice it would then involve increasing public debt and assuming such losses through transfers to the State's General Budgets. Lowering the bill but raising taxes is not only not the solution, but above it makes everyone pay equally, regardless of the level of electricity consumption, to the detriment of rationality, efficiency and ecological transition objectives. The only way in which the market can be affected in any way is for the public enterprise to devote itself to producing with CO2-emitting energies the marginal ones, below the cost, but that would, first of all, be a direct subsidy, with total certainty being illegal by anticompetitive and prohibitive, because it would not achieve the desired objective. It would be better to invest that money in a social bond or other similar measures. It is also contrary to the fight against climate change, because it would stop internalising the cost of emitting CO2, would nullify the effectiveness of the CO2 emission allowance market and would pollute above our targets. For liberals it is essential that genuine competition is given on the market, and the electricity market should not be an exception. The lack of competition and the existence of dominant positions is not something that we reject because it harms other companies, but also because, above all, it harms citizens. That is why fraud, when committed by a public undertaking, is equally or more reprehensible, if any, since a public undertaking must be the first to act with loyalty and efficiency. Apart from this, which is the core of the economy - and that you sometimes, and on this occasion, jump to the toaster - the important thing is to reflect on what the role of hydroelectric power stations should be before deciding what management it should have. Generation? Storage? Both alike? Or does one of them take precedence? Finally, once that strategic decision is made, then it will make sense to talk about your management model. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-19-CD211019.u101	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr López de Uralde Garmendia has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podem-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-19-CD211019.u102	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to thank the Member of the CUP for presenting this non-legislative proposal because I believe that it is timely and addresses one of the issues most of concern to citizens at this time, which has to do with the price of light and one thing that we have seen this summer and which has really filled many of us with stupefaction, which has been how the companies of the electric oligopoly have speculated with hydraulic energy to the point of leaving the reservoirs empty. The case of Ricobayo has been one of the clearest examples, which was emptied in a few days by 80% of its capacity; or the case of the Alcántara dam, for example, which practically left the National Park of Monfragüe without water, and so, successively, one by one, the various reservoirs have been emptied by the speculative policy of hydroelectric companies. The citizen's deputy said that they like a perfect market. The truth is that in the case of hydroelectric power, which accounts for about 20% of the electricity installed in our country, of the 17,018 megawatts we have, Iberdrola controls 9715; Endesa, 4793 and Naturgy, 1951. All in all, this means that only three companies control 96.2% of the hydraulic energy in our country, something that is really far from a perfect market, is really a perfect oligopoly. What happened this summer is the exact consequence of the control of that hydraulic energy. Precisely for this reason, the decree we adopted last week on urgent energy measures already addressed the need to regulate the obligation for rivers to maintain an ecological flow necessarily; that is, in some way it is to put a stop to this speculative greed for energy oligopoly. We have tabled an amendment to this GNP, in which we focus primarily on what is being a demand from our parliamentary group, which is the creation of a public undertaking responsible for the management of the hydraulic public domain in relation to electricity production, assuming those concessions once their extinction occurs, regardless of the cause involved, in addition to the possible initiatives that the same undertaking may undertake in other energy areas. In other words, what we have tried to put in this GNP is that, finally, it is what its title says it is, precisely the public recovery of hydroelectric power stations. We believe that the creation of such a public undertaking is essential, we believe that it is necessary for this public undertaking to be created as soon as possible because in the end the water is everyone's and, therefore, it is logical that, to the extent that these concessions are being won, they are being recovered and constitute the embryo of what this public energy undertaking will be. And I say that it will be, because we are in a context where almost all the countries in our environment have public undertakings or companies with public participation in the field of electricity production, and what we cannot bear is that we remain in the hands of an oligopoly that, as we have seen and said, controls 96% of our prey. This cannot be because, in the end, the management that is being made of water, of an increasingly scarce public good, is a management directed directly to speculation. In fact, according to the CNMC, the production of hydroelectric megawatts costs 3 euros and the electricity companies have been charging in the wholesale market 150, 180 or, ultimately, what the market says every day. With this, a huge business is being done and hence the need, which we addressed in the actual decree of the other day and which we will address successively in new initiatives, to put a stop to this speculative interest. Hence our interest that this GNP actually assumed that objective of public recovery of hydraulic jumps.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-19-CD211019.u103	Your time's up.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-19-CD211019.u104	Nothing more and thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-19-CD211019.u105	For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Padilla Ruiz has the floor. [[The President took the Chair.-Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeded to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-19-CD211019.u106	Thank you, President. Mrs Vehi, there are times when one does not know whether to start at the beginning or at the end and I assure you that this is one of those circumstances. I will try to clarify the response to this GNP which, in the view of the Socialist Group, I have to say that it lacks rigour. I'm telling you with all due respect. They begin by saying that water is a common good, a natural resource that belongs to us all - perfect - and end up asking to transfer the competences of the Ebro Hydrographic Confederation to the Catalan Water Agency, that is, from the part of the river that passes through Catalonia. Mrs Vehi, a watershed is an indivisible resource management unit, you can't independent a piece of the Ebro River. I don't know what it would seem to them that each of the other six communities through which the Ebro takes place will also be handed over to them the competences of the Hydrographic Confederation: Cantabria, Castilla y León, La Rioja, País Vaco, Navarra and Aragón. Can you imagine what would happen if one or more basins of the Ebro pre-Cataluña and another of the Ebro catalán were to be built in Spain, and that the basins of upstream waters were building reservoirs or hydroelectric jumps without counting those of downstream waters? It's really crazy. I think it's a bit of a desire to raise borders, Your Honor. On the other hand, they ask to carry out a study on the state of all concessions of hydroelectric power plants and to force the water registers to certify the actual capacity of the concessions. Each basin agency has an Office of the Water Registry in which concessions, changes in ownership, characteristics and among its functions are registered ex officio. It certifies the rights of the private use of water. What you're asking is how to install the property records for you to issue a simple note. This is one thing that is already done. They also seek to force public water registers to ensure that power stations move to public administration without further private competitions, once concessions are completed. It may seem interesting, but it is that the law takes that opportunity and what you are asking the Government to do is to breach the law, to limit the capacity of the competent body above the law and to force it to take a single path, regardless of the circumstances of each plant. At this point I see a little interventionist to the gentlemen of the CUP. Like setting up a commission of inquiry in Congress, which, among other things, raises it for the possible violation of the Public Administrations Heritage Act. Two things about this point. If you want to set up a committee, this is not the channel, it is not a GNP; read the Regulation, Rule 52, and process it through this Article. And if you believe that there is a violation of the law, in this or other matter, instead of sowing suspicion, go to the courts. Suspicions or assertions, because when you propose to urge the CNMC to investigate and punish private companies that have committed fraud, as a matter of fact, I wonder: do you know any companies that have committed fraud and have not denounced it? With regard to the creation of a Garona hydrographic confederation, I am sorry to also have to say that the legislation does not allow this, and, in addition, the Water Framework Directive, precisely, advises us to go to a hydrological plan in shared basins in different countries. Seeing the tone of the text they present and some statements that can be read in their GNP makes me think that the interest in taking this initiative forward is limited. Mrs Vehi, indeed, the words are important and asking the government to do things that prevent the law is a way to guarantee a little the no, besides fueling the strategy of going to a parliamentary conflict between the Catalan people and the state, which is what your candidate for the presidency of the Generalitat said. I don't know. Instead of being full of arguments, they come to confusion and free attack to try to shut down their message of conflict. As you know, we have also tabled an amendment aimed at further working on the adequacy of water legislation to enable adaptation to climate change. Stop raising borders, let politics flow as rivers flow between communities. She ended, president, also with a phrase, mine is Maria Zambrano's: Everything passes, the water runs from the river, but the channel and the river itself remain. There must be a channel, and the channel of life is the truth. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-19-CD211019.u107	Thank you, Mrs. Padilla. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Matute García de Jalón has the floor in position-setting by the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-19-CD211019.u108	President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Guztioi. We are going to vote in favour of the CUP initiative because we share any of the six concrete measures. We do not care whether they are voted separately or jointly. It is true that there is one that has a direct connection with a specific case in point that has to do with the Catalan countries, the fourth, but that too we will vote in favour of solidarity. In any case, the other five are fully shared. In other words, we share the view that a study should be carried out on all the hydroelectric concessions that may expire in the next few years in the Spanish State. There are news reports that indicate that there are at least thirty, that they would do so before 2031, and they also point out - that is something that should be analysed by those who govern - that there are difficulties in accessing the information of how many more concessions might be about to expire. I believe that, in the interests of transparency, good governance and democracy, there is still something else that can be done. Still, as I say, we will support the point that has to do with the study of these concessions. We agree that the Water Register should be required to certify the expiry of concessions, because this will probably result in greater certainty as to which concessions are about to expire and which ones are not. We also agree that, once they have been granted, they should be made available to the public. It's not something Bolivarian, I'm sorry, or not, but in any case it's not new. This is already being done. There are a multitude of municipalities, at least in the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country, and also in Navarre, which, through joint ventures and with management councils set up by the members of these municipalities, are taking charge of the management of hydroelectric plants that use not only for the use and supply of drinking water, but also produce energy. Therefore, I believe that there is a path there, an open spate, which could well be exploited. As I said, we will support the specific case-by-case approach set out in the fourth point for solidarity. The fifth point seems very interesting to us: that the National Commission on Markets and Competition should investigate and sanction fraud. It draws attention to the fact that anyone who knows a fraud will report it. But it has already been done! That's what the press says. Since 2004 there have already been large companies, although I will not quote them anymore. At this point I must not be too friendly with both companies, but it has already appeared in the hemeroteca and anyone can look for it; companies that have been sanctioned because they have carried out practices that have involved fraud, as they allowed them to implement prices and obtain benefits that do not correspond. If the problem is not here, it is not that justice has not acted; the problem is that the ceiling of sanctions that the Spanish State has does not compensate the company to stop doing so or, in other words, that the company does not like to be punished because it earns much more with the infringement than with the penalty imposed on it, and that is a reality that they will have to analyse. And with the last point we also agree, it is the one talking about the committee of inquiry to review all concessions and expiry dates. I think it's relevant, because reality sometimes shows itself to be clumsy. In this House, in the heat of a reality, which I do not know, that happened in August in a reservoir in Castile or León - I do not want to be wrong now -, the president of the company that had spilled that 70 or 80% of the channel that was in the reservoir was already asked to appear and this House said no, most of this House said no. I believe that the people who have been affected, who surely also vote in the elections - I don't know who, but they will vote and believe that they have public representatives in this House - will leave some bitter retaste because it will make them understand that in the end voting every four years is a resource that probably legitimizes democracy, but that makes it little useful in practice when they don't defend it from those who have inflicted damage, although it is true that these gentlemen have a power that surely none of us in this House will ever have. But above all and fundamentally we will support it by the first line of its motion; not even by the operative part, but by the first line of its motion, which says that water is a common good, because this is the central element of debate. The central element of the debate is whether water is a common good or not, because for decades, and in the 20th century for many decades, water was considered a common good, from the United States of America to all European countries, but in the 1980s, with the advent of neoliberalism, of the neoliberal model - I don't know whether liberalism was defended by some from the rostrum or by others - what was decided was that it was an economic good and that economic interest prevailed over social interest. If water is a natural good, if it is a common good, it is usually at the disposal of all, not at the service of speculative interests or of amassing profits from certain enterprises. What I am saying is not a reflection of a certain left, this has already been said and sanctioned by the United Nations Council, this is already approved in a United Nations Assembly. However, there are those who prefer to look elsewhere, even if it is mandatory for States, than to respond to this reality, because the same thing they used to negotiate with the use of water, they now do for the use of electricity, but in the background the dimension remains the same: is it or is it not public? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-19-CD211019.u109	Thank you very much, Mr. Matute. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-19-CD211019.u110	Thank you, President. I share many of the statements made here by the Socialist spokesman. I believe that perhaps some serious statements are made in the explanatory statement when we talk about the existence of irregular favours and we believe, like the Socialist spokesman, that this should be denounced, not in the media, Mr Matute, but in court. What cannot be taken for granted is that, because someone has committed fraud, he will always do so, because if we apply that to many areas of life or to economic life, then look where we would be! I believe that it is a GNP that mixes various issues, more generic issues relating to the reversal and the granting of hydros with other issues that have more to do with the transfer of competences to a given autonomous community. Moreover, this GNP does not raise a new issue either because we already discussed it in 2018, I think at the request of the Podemos Group. The exploitation of hydroelectric jumps has been and is of great importance in the electricity system not only because it is an economic activity, but also from an environmental and sustainability point of view. Moreover, it is an issue, as has been said here, which is very topical because of the high price of energy and because in the marginalist system it is precisely the hydro that has marked the cost-opportunity on numerous occasions. That is why the issue has arisen not only from the reversal of concessions, but also from the fact that a public enterprise is created for its management. On the other hand, the GNP is telling us to force water registers to ensure that hydroelectric power stations go into public administration. We believe that this is a rather difficult thing because the Water Registry has no competence to do so. On the other hand, they also tell us about the conduct of a detailed study on the state of concessions. As the Socialist spokesman has rightly said, we understand that this register is public and can be consulted; in fact, I believe that the ministry has also made some listing, albeit incomplete. The concession periods, as set out in the Water Act, are seventy-five years, and it is true that there are hydraulic concessions that are coming to an end; moreover, the case law itself has also endorsed the improbability of the concessions. Therefore, we believe that we need to address what we think and what we want to do with all these plants. We agree to open a process of analysis on the improvement of hydraulic management, and we also believe that there should be no bad practices of concessionaires, that is, how they manage, whether or not they retain water to modify or set a price, but we believe that this requires neither a commission of inquiry nor urge the CNMC to check it, because, in fact, the CNMC is already doing so and, moreover, it has been the Ministry of Ecological Transition itself that urged it to do so, according to the latest news that has emerged in the press on account of the emptying of some reservoirs. Why a committee of inquiry when there is an agency for this matter? Moreover, all of us here know that a committee of inquiry has no effect, no responsibility can be blamed. We therefore believe that the committee of inquiry is more of a shock than anything else. It is a GNP that is giving priority to public management, and in this we have doubts, because it is true that the problems of supply-and-demand cassation are going to make it necessary for manageable power stations to fill those gaps that occur because renewables, indeed, generate when they want, and the only renewable and manageable generation can be hydraulics and, to a lesser extent, also biomass. Therefore, we understand that efficient and efficient management of these plants is necessary, allowing the system operator to give the proper signals to the hydraulics, but this does not mean that this can be achieved with public management. Is the pattern of behaviour between a public enterprise and a private enterprise going to be different, or is it going to be better in one case or another? Because we also know that there has been some plant that has been stopped for more than a year after the dealership will deliver the installation on secure stop almost two years after the resolution of the ministry's reversal file, and this cannot be if it is to be efficient and effective. Above all, stoppage of installations should be avoided at the end of the concessional period, as this causes a major deterioration in the installations. That is why we say that the premises of public management and general interest on many occasions do not marry at all well. On the other hand, there is talk of public management, but there is no talk of the role of the autonomous communities where these plants are located. We agree on the recovery of hydropower, but we believe that perhaps we should discuss how this is to be done, whether we need to re-bidden under conditions favourable to the common interest, whether the expired concessions should be settled before the expiry of the concession and even whether there should be a learning period if there is a new successful tenderer. We understand that a new regulatory development is necessary, but as you said that we are going to vote for points, we will vote for each of them because we already know that there is not going to be a compromise. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-19-CD211019.u111	Thank you very much, Mrs. Sagastizabal. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, first of all, Mr Rego Candamil.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-19-CD211019.u112	Thank you, Madam President. The debate on expired hydroelectric concessions is very clear: to allow water, an essential and public good, a natural resource that belongs to us all, to serve the great business of private companies, to feed them accounts of electricity results or to revert to the public and social interest, starting with the communities in which the power plants are installed. For us, for Galicia, which is the country of the thousand rivers and the hundreds of power stations and mini-power stations, this is really important. For this reason, the BNG defends the creation of a Galician public energy company that can operate in a sector relevant to our country, starting with taking over the hydroelectric plants to which the concession expires. It would be a first step in putting energy production at the service of the social and economic development of the people and of the public interest, rather than maintaining it for the greater profit of a few. The transfer of river basins and all the competences in their management in the regulation of the electricity sector is a measure that seems necessary and essential to us and that will end up being inevitable. Of course, we will vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-19-CD211019.u113	Thank you, Mr. Rego. For the same parliamentary group, Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-19-CD211019.u114	Thank you very much, Madam President. Looks like the afternoon's gotten interesting. The judge has just prosecuted the People's Party of Valencia and fifty former councillors and advisers of Rita Barberá for money laundering. Anyway, things that happen in the world. [[Applauds]] I was asking Mrs Vehi whose rain it is. Mrs Vehi, the rain is from Endesa, and Iberdrola, from Naturgy because we have granted it, because since always, since the Civil War, since March and Oriol helped give the coup d'état, politicians have been on the boards of directors. This proposal is absolutely reasonable, and it is also ratified by a ruling of the National Court itself. There are large companies that benefit from the water falling from the sky because they sell it at gas prices at no cost, since it is water falling from the sky, and thanks to the pricing system, they are lined with the rain of everyone, in short, absolutely liberal practices. I hope that the Liberals will also vote against it. We will vote in favour because we understand that the rain is ours, that is, of everyone; because we are in favour of public companies managing a fundamental service, as we are living now; because from the public we manage equally well, as we have seen in the pandemic with public health, with schools, and we see it in the hospitals recovered there, in my land, that work better than before with private companies, and because we are in favour of those benefits that fall into the pockets of large companies turning into the pockets of society. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-19-CD211019.u115	Thank you, Mr. Baldoví. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the same parliamentary group, Mrs Calvo Gómez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-19-CD211019.u116	Thank you, Madam President. We agree with a proposal aimed at recovering hydroelectric plants which have already exceeded the maximum period of private concession so that it is a public undertaking that manages these plants, but attention must first be paid to the amendment of the current Water Act, which was initially conceived in the 1980s, which impacted the territory environmentally without listening to it and without planning to take it into account once it reached the end of the concessions. It is imperative that the newly created public enterprise, whether autonomous or local, reverses profits in the territory and listens to its inhabitants. The solution is not that the benefits go directly to the ministry. Also, as we said, it is imperative to set up a commission to investigate the management that hydroelectric plants have made of the water resource, not only because they are obliged to respect the ecological flow of river courses, as has been pointed out, but because, as Minister Ribera herself said in her appearance at the Commission last September, there were well-founded suspicions that bridges have been opened in order, in a speculative way and in the midst of drought, to take advantage of the defect of a market that is more than marginalist than opportunistic. Therefore, the hydraulics have the option 'water goes', while the renewables cannot store to release energy to convenience. Therefore, since Junts we have been asking for months that the great hydraulics remain out of auction, like the nuclear, in this case because it generates continuously. In the meantime, the Royal Decree 17/2021 has been given a green light, introducing criteria for the rational use of water resources in a new era marked by climate change, but we understand, as the UPC does, that it is necessary to investigate and, above all, to punish those companies that have committed fraud at the expense of the citizens' pocket and of the health of the planet. As long as it is not investigated, we will continue to be prisoners of their prey and paying for the electricity of the water at the price of gold. But, of course, we are before the mutant opinion government, because the commission being asked has not been asked again. Another proof of this mutability is that the same minister says one day that they plan to set up a public company that manages the hydropower plants of expired concessions and, then, that they could have all the hydropower through a different concession system, and we are waiting for them to explain what this system is. We could ironically say that calm, that there is time, because the Minister of Presidency, Bolaños, threw the ball forward when he assured that it will be in the medium and long term, that is, in a few years' time.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-19-CD211019.u117	Thank you, Mrs. Calvo. For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Eritja Ciuro has the floor. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-19-CD211019.u118	Thank you very much, President. To talk about hydroelectric power plants is to talk about an energy model that we want. It is clear that there is a need to restructure the current model and establish an energy market with public control, free from monopolies and with a fair, equitable, competitive, environmentally sustainable and transparent energy pricing system. For our group, this necessarily involves recovering the public management of hydroelectric power plants, so that they can have a positive return to the territory and the quality of life of the people. This was proposed by our group in the no-law proposal presented in 2018, which called for the return of the public management of the hydraulic power plants of the Upper Pyrenees in Catalonia. More recently, we have tabled an amendment to the Climate Change Act to limit the extended new concessions to 20 years. Our group sees a great need for a shift towards public management of everything that affects water, not only the power plants, not only to ensure transparent and democratic management, but also to ensure a sustainable and comprehensive management model of watersheds based on the order of preference for water flows contained in the Water Framework Directive and laying down watershed hydrological plans. The current management of large electric oligopolies is not precisely guaranteeing these premises for the integral, sustainable, transparent and democratic management of water in all its dimensions, as a common good it is, as has been said here. Let us remember, if not, that this same summer Iberdrola expressed the reservoir of Valdecañas for electricity generation and left without water supply for human consumption and for agriculture to the municipalities of the environment. Water is not only a resource for energy generation, for the supply of water for agricultural and industrial uses, it has another dimension with an impact on the territory, the environment, and little has been talked about here. In this sense, it is clear that hydraulic power plants have a major impact on environmental issues that will eventually affect the quality of water bodies and river ecosystems under great water stress, for example, the retention of sediments that would reach the sea or, for example, the regulation of the ecological flow to preserve and maintain good quality in the water bodies of river ecosystems, an element that the Water Framework Directive establishes. And how does this affect? How do electrics affect this maintenance of the river ecosystem? For, precisely, the most significant example, to say the least, and because it is closer to my territory, is the Ebro Delta, which is in danger of disappearing, precisely because of the lack of sediments and the lack of flow. That is why the public management of power stations is so important. In this regard, I insist, we believe that only the direct and public management of hydroelectric power stations can fully guarantee environmental requirements regarding the use of electricity generation within the framework of a sustainable and environmentally friendly energy model. Four thoughts. The effects of climate change on the reduction of water inputs will even force the volume of water in concessions to be reviewed on the basis of the average of the total contribution of the watershed over a period of time. Increasingly, contributions to watersheds are being found to be smaller and, therefore, concessions would have to be adapted. This is either the collapse of the ecosystem itself. Today, many small municipalities in the Pyrenees receive funding from hydroelectric companies, I would like to believe that in compensation for the use of the resource in their territory. In the case of return to public administration, such compensation should be taken into account. On the other hand, current river basin governance agencies require in-depth reform of the current governance model, based on transparency, full participation and co-decision criteria. This is therefore another very important element. Another important element: the Garona. The Garona has absolutely nothing to do with the Ebro basin. The Garona receives its contributions on the northern side of the Pyrenees, the valley of Arán in particular, is born in the Pla de Beret and dies in France. Therefore, it has absolutely nothing to do with it. Thus, that the Garona is incorporated into the Ebro basin comes not by criteria of basins, but by criteria essentially administrative. So, here's the trap. I'm finishing up. We share each of the proposals contained in this non-legislative proposal. We are committed to public control of hydroelectric plants, based on a more transparent, sustainable and democratic management model, which ensures a return to the territory. Environmental costs affecting territories in order to guarantee energy supply to society as a whole must be compensated. This is a question of solidarity and territorial imbalance. Today - and it has already finished - the boards of directors of the energy oligopolies are too far removed from the social reality and the environmental costs of these infrastructures in the basins where they are installed. We therefore ask that all the considerations contained in this non-law proposal be taken into account. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-19-CD211019.u119	Thank you, Mr. Eritja. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the VOX Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, Mrs Borrás. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-19-CD211019.u120	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Today we are discussing a PNL of the xenophobic and radical separatists of the CUP. I imagine that, because I am this Member who speaks to you a Spanish woman, with a genetic clearly inferior to the elevated and perfect Catalan supremacism that you defend and represent, my words may not be of interest to you, gentlemen of the UPC, but I will still express myself and address you, ladies and gentlemen. They speak in their GNP of the public recovery of hydroelectric concessions because, according to the extreme left, the elephantic, slow and bureaucratic public administration would manage much better the lakes, ravines, rivers and reservoirs that would do so by the companies themselves, professionalized and subject to the competition of the market and whose objective is to be as efficient as possible; the same public administration that, by the way, Mr Uralde, authorizes the emptying of reservoirs like that of Ricobayo in Zamora, which you have mentioned, through the corresponding hydrographic confederation, causing the desertification of the territory, a serious environmental risk and harmful consequences for the economic activity of the environment. We still have to listen to Members, even the government itself complaining about something that depends on themselves. The last responsible and therefore the main culprit is this Government and its respective ministry of ecological ruin. [[Applauds]] Of course, Mrs Vehi, it is necessary and essential to guarantee the legality of the players in the electricity market. I would tell you that just for that there is already a body called CNMC, ladies and gentlemen, to investigate and ensure that the activities of the sector are lawful and legal. It is also true that, considering that the husband of the Energy Ruin Minister is precisely in that Competition Commission, we fully understand that you may be doubting potential conflicts of interest and that this creates enormous mistrust for you, we understand that. That being said, if you ask for a commission of inquiry, given that we already have a body to do so, it is surprising, precisely in a country where the left votes against setting up commissions of inquiry on, for example, the sexual exploitation of children under guardianship in the Balearic Islands. We hope, gentlemen of the UPC, that this has nothing to do with the cases of sexual abuse of members of your party, as our colleague Georgina Trias has already explained, while you were listening deaf, by the way. They also talk in their GNP about creating a hydrographic confederation of their own for the Garona. We already knew that even in something as basic and essential as water you were going to think of the common good: all for and for the sectarian interests of your imaginary world of the Catalan lands of Never ever the ones you speak of in your GNP. [[Applauds]] Whether you like it or not, water is a resource for all Spaniards, and that is why in VOX we want to ensure that every drop of water reaches all corners of the nation through the interconnection of all the basins through a national hydrological plan for Spain. Although we already know, gentlemen of the UPC, that half of the words in this sentence to you cause allergy, water must be at the service of the well-being of the country, of all Spaniards. We therefore propose that water should be used primarily for activities that do not have a substitute, such as human supply, agriculture, tourism or industry, leaving exclusively its activity in the energy world to reversible power plants, so that the main problem facing us today is the challenge of renewable energy, which is storage. We persevere in the idea of taking advantage of the huge amounts of water that currently ends up being wasted at sea. For example, in the case of the Tagus, approximately 6000 cubic hectometers will end up in the sea and could be perfectly exploited for irrigation and other uses. A green Spain, free, modern and resistant to the globalist ideology and peripheral separatism of 'this gout is mine'. No drop of rain that falls on Spanish soil is only yours, gentlemen of the CUP; no fruit collected on Spanish soil is only yours, gentlemen of the CUP; no tree that grows on Spanish soil is only yours, gentlemen of the CUP. Nothing is just yours, gentlemen of the CUP, separatist gentlemen, because it is of all the Spaniards, you included, and since VOX - I have finished - we will ensure that every drop, every tree and every natural resource of this country is to generate the well-being of all the Spaniards and not just a few. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause from the Members of the VOX Parliamentary Group, on the ground]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-19-CD211019.u121	Thank you very much, Mrs. Borrás. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Herrero Bono has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-19-CD211019.u122	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. Ladies and gentlemen, the Members of the CUP, yes, those who support this erratic government, are presenting this non-legislative proposal in order to force even more if it is possible to take a position on energy to this lapsed government. The clear objective of this proposal is the creation of a public electricity company through the reversal of hydroelectric power plants. I have already told you that we will vote no, because that is not the solution. But your explanatory statement also makes it clear what kind of policy you are pursuing. You, Mrs Vehi, have no other purpose than to destroy our country. They speak of the Hydrographic Confederation of Jucar and Segura as public records of the waters of the Catalan countries, of modifying the hydrographic management of the Garona, as well as of transferring the competences of the Ebro Hydrographic Basin. You, ladies and gentlemen of the UPC, should know two important things. The first is that Garoña is a basin shared between France and Spain, which is governed by an international agreement between the two countries, and its competence, because of its international character, belongs to the State and is assigned to the Ebro Hydrographic Basin. The second is that the Ebro exceeds the territorial scope of an autonomous community and is therefore considered to be an inter-Community basin and is therefore the competence of the Spanish State. Mrs Vehí, repeat with me: competence of the Spanish State. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen of the UPC, you pretend to laugh at Spain and the Spanish and all you do every time you come up here is to leave yourself and those who support you in the clear. By the way, Mrs Padilla, for populist and interventionist the Royal Decree 17/2021 that your Government brought to this House. Ladies and gentlemen, it is true that there are many more and more of us who are aware of the inoperation of management, also in the energy sector, which the Sánchez Government has. As early as 2018, in her first appearance in the Senate, Vice President Ribera left open the possibility that the state will exploit these power stations, but after January, in the midst of the light rise by the drunken Filomena, Minister Rivera discards the creation of a public company. Now, at the request of its communist partners, they are seeking the creation of a public electricity company. By the way, Mr López de Uralde, there is no oligopoly here; the embalmings are authorized by the confederations and, therefore, by the Government of Spain. Don't fake reality. Mrs Vehí, you talk about hydroelectric plants, their owners and the relevant governments as if they were genuine kamikazes. Ladies and gentlemen of the UPC, I would ask you that when you come up here, to the rostrum, you have spoken before with those of us who live in the territory and that you have asked about the wealth they represent and the need for their maintenance for the economic development of those areas which are normally depopulated areas. This technology is essential for not relying on gas and therefore from third countries, does not emit CO2 and its storage mode is key to maintaining supply security and complying with the Paris Agreements. Moreover, and it is true, it is a technology that, on the basis of the old The Waters Act begins to reverse the State after the seventy-five years of concession have expired. But, ladies and gentlemen, for the People's Group that is not the only solution, and it is not because the plants need to make investments to attract a safe operation, even there are already reversed plants in Spain that the new managers have not been able to start up. So, and to conclude, ladies and gentlemen, today more than ever the Spanish electricity system needs great consensus and agreements to reduce the price of energy, to give security of supply and to comply with the PNIEB in the implementation of renewables. This will only be possible if plant owners develop these more than 15,000 megawatts in proposed pumping projects. For this reason, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, stop looking to your left and listen, even if only for once, to the proposals that come to you from the People's Party. You are already on time for a discount; step aside and let this country out of the situation in which you, also in the field of energy, have put it. Spanish, large companies and small and medium-sized enterprises in this country will thank you. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-19-CD211019.u123	Thank you very much, Mr Herrero. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-19-CD211019.u124	We then proceed to discuss the motion resulting from an urgent inquiry by the VOX Parliamentary Group, on the measures to be developed by the Ministry of Social Rights and Agenda 2030 to implement the young bonus commitment made by the President of the Government. This will be the last item on the agenda to be discussed today. For the author group of the initiative and for the defence of the motion, Mr Ramírez del Río has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-19-CD211019.u125	With all due respect, Madam President. All surveys point to a collapse of the left parties among the younger ones, especially those who enter the age of voting, and it is obvious that the government parties have put themselves to work to reverse this situation, as we can see from the cultural bonus and the rental bonus, although we should call them better cultural and housing charters, which are the property of a social-communist government. [[Applauds]] In the meantime, there is hardly a tax that has not been raised during this legislature. Contrary to what they are doing throughout Europe, the government of Pedro Sánchez has made the biggest tax increases of the European Union and the OECD, taking out what the Spaniards do not have. You want to plunder the parents so you can bribe the children; parents who can't even reach the end of the month or pay the bills for electricity and gas. I am convinced that, as happened already in Zaragoza with a similar plan, you will not succeed. Public housing policies have been thoroughly investigated and the measures taken by municipal, regional and national governments have been analysed in depth. Therefore, when we look at the way in which the leaders of Podemos present their contributions and try to discover America again, we cannot fail to see a blushing degree of incompetence, which would turn out to be touching if it were not for the suffering and the difficulties that you are going to bring to the Spaniards. [[Applauds]] You cite one case, that of Barcelona last year, in which you barely lowered rents after you started applying one of the laws that you advocate - you dropped less than in Madrid, where you had not applied any of those laws - and there was a reduction in the supply by about 42%, and you analyze it as if a sinking of the GDP of 11%, the largest since the Civil War, had absolutely nothing to do with the matter. Your way of analyzing things is really amazing. After mentioning the advantages of the Berlin rental law, which they intend to copy and which failed in a catastrophic way, they sell us the following measure: the wonders of the referendum to expropriate housing in that same city. The mere fact that this is proposed clearly shows that the previous law failed, as will happen, according to all experts, with this new measure, and the lords of the government do not even stop to observe this empirical evidence. Therefore, and although I am aware that this is an effort doomed to failure, I will explain to you why the measure you are going to take is doomed to failure and will only serve to raise the prices of rents not only to young people, but to the whole population, much of which will receive none of these measures. In Spain we do not have a demand problem - it is not that the tenants are missing and we have to encourage them, there are many people looking for apartments -, we have a supply problem, because, if we compare with the rest of Europe, we lack two and a half million rented houses just to put ourselves on average. To deal with this problem, housing construction and the creation of public parks must be increased, greater legal certainty must be provided - especially for tenants, so that, in the event of non-payment of rent, it does not become a nightmare - and many other measures that have been successful. The 250 euros of the housing charter will raise prices in a general way, because there are more people looking for the same apartments for rent the owners will receive more offer and the prices will be increased. The Bank of Spain, in its 2020 report, already warned of this. In the United States there was a program similar to what you are proposing, and the analysis of your results in more than ninety metropolitan areas, in the largest parts of the country, concluded that there had been a 16% increase in rental prices. This is a catastrophe for the workers of Spain. [[Applauds]] Another pernicious effect of the design of this incentive is that it is linked to specific income... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-19-CD211019.u126	Excuse me a moment, Mr. Ramirez. I'm asking for a little silence, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-19-CD211019.u127	...and, to have it, there will be people who will declare lower incomes, and this will encourage the submerged economy. Both PSOE and Podemos make quite a few references to the presence of vulture funds in the Spanish real estate market, although they only own 5% of that market. It is therefore a fallacy that cannot explain the housing problems that are taking place in our country. Listening to them talk about the real estate market causes astonishment, when it doesn't hurt. When you point out that you want to get some goods out of the market, you realize how far your economic ignorance comes and how far that communist heritage in your group is being felt. It is possible that a young man who earns 23,000 euros a year can pay a rent, but with the prices at which the light and gas are arriving I fear that it is not impossible for him to emancipate, it is very unlikely that he can continue to live comfortably with his parents or sharing flat. [[Applauds]] They will soon also start with an energy bonus, which in fact we have already been announced in these general budgets: the energy charter. In serious countries, such as Austria, the use of public funds to buy votes is considered an electoral crime, as we have seen very recently. In Spain, unfortunately, it's just a bad habit. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Prolonged applause by the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, on the ground]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-19-CD211019.u128	Thank you very much, Mr. Ramírez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] In defence of the amendment made by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, Mrs Giménez Giménez.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-19-CD211019.u129	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will start the intervention by making a reference, I think, to the situation of our young people, a collective that we promise that if they worked, if they studied, if they worked, they would be the owners of their future; that if they were formed, they could build a full life project, but the reality is another, the reality is that those generations prepared and loaded with projects have suffered a series of crises that have broken the foundations of their lives, the last pandemic that has upset their plans. Of course, young people are not the only ones who have suffered the terrible consequences of COVID, but when we see the data the picture is desolating. We have a youth unemployment rate of 40%; more than 80% of young people have to live with their parents because it is impossible for them to emancipate because they do not have a job or have a precarious job. So, I want to start by saying that in Citizens we consider that the future of young people is the future of the country and that we need sensible, agreed policies, giving an integral and joint response to the problems that our young people have. As far as housing is concerned and as far as the motion is concerned, Spain's serious housing problem cannot be attributed, as the ladies and gentlemen of VOX say, only to the scarce soil and bureaucratic obstacles faced by real estate companies in planning new constructions. Despite the fact that there have been thousands of public housing units in Spain, since 1978 the number of public management units in Spain has been low; public housing has been low, and above all many of them are being disqualified as official protection units. This type of policy has been supported by the People's Party and the Socialist Party and has resulted in an alienation of the public heritage, whose function was exclusively a social function, to the extent that many of these buildings built have lost their status as officially protected dwellings. It is therefore necessary to increase the number of public housing units and to devote themselves to social rental. It's the most important thing right now. With regard to the social bonus, we believe that what the Government has proposed can have truly counterproductive effects. As some studies have already pointed out, this aid given to specific sectors of the population can lead to a rise in prices, making it useless. In Citizens we are particularly concerned that this measure will result in a situation of frustration. The public authorities cannot continue to frustrate the social strata that have the greatest problem in accessing housing. Finally, with regard to the massive reduction of taxes and charges in the building process, we accept - as they say in the proposal - that there is a margin for reducing the bureaucratic burden surrounding the process of building new buildings; however, it is clear that the VOX proposal is a limited and insufficient proposal. Tensioned areas or areas with higher rental prices are precisely where there is little room for housing construction. Cities such as Madrid, Barcelona, Seville, among other major capitals, have little margin of construction in the most central areas, so this measure would have a small impact in terms of this matter. What needs to be done is to open up and avoid the perverse effect that this proposal can have, because residential segregation can be encouraged, which condemns people with fewer resources to live in the peripheral areas of large cities. We must push policies that end ghettos, we must push policies that end residential segregation. Ladies and gentlemen, housing policies and policies in general must be geared towards social cohesion rather than segregation and exclusion. Therefore, we have an obligation to design effective policies for our young people, integral policies that guarantee their future, because the future of our Spanish young people is the future of Spain. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-19-CD211019.u130	Thank you very much, Mrs Giménez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor at the time of the joint parliamentary group's fixing of positions.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-19-CD211019.u131	Thank you very much, Madam President. In full inflationary escalation, with important agencies such as the International Monetary Fund and the Bank of Spain warning of the bad estimates made to calculate the budget chapter of revenues in the year 2022, the Government has submitted a draft public accounts that has been preceded by resounding presidential announcements regarding young people: a gift check of 400 euros for those who meet the age of majority and various measures to facilitate their access to housing. Also, a month and a half ago in Gijón, Mr.Sánchez made another grandiose announcement about Vocational Training, although for no one to catch up with him, journalists were confined in an annexe room. Days later, Minister Escrivá advocated a cultural change to work until the age of seventy-five, and now the reform of pensions is circulating in Congress, which severely penalizes early retirement and which has forever forgotten the so-called relief contract, which facilitated young people's access to a job and which has escaped from measures to refresh the labour market. Ladies and gentlemen, the pathological frivolity of the Government has the young Spaniards as great victims of its policy, as was demonstrated once again last week in Mrs Borrás's appeal to the Minister of Social Rights, a minister who, by the way, is quite disrespectful to the powers of the State and also to those with whom, in the area of housing and in a rule of law, the Government has to negotiate and reach agreements in order to bring about the best social exploitation of the housing stock. Ladies and gentlemen, the masterful formula for facilitating access to housing, both for rent and property, is job creation and almost three and a half years after Sánchez's arrival in the Moncloa not only has not been created jobs, but we have youth unemployment that has been shot and crazy, with economic clouds that herald a major failure, as Spain has already lived in previous socialist stages. Let me say, in my usual parliamentary tour in memory of my demarcation of origin, that in Asturias, precisely as a consequence of the disastrous socialist economic policies, there are fewer and fewer young people who find work, either because of the serious demographic crisis and the shortage of births, or because of the massive emigration in search of work and the future that they do not find there. In Asturias we have the record for European youth unemployment, about 40%. For this reason, the inability to access a home is compounded by youth insecurity in order to be emancipated. Today, because of the negative statistics that plague Asturias, it has been known that poverty has risen to almost 28%; that is, far above the national average, which is already alarming and which reflects that the management of the governments that Pedro Sánchez presides, I repeat, for almost three and a half years, is dragging the Spaniards or the Asturians to greater impoverishment. Young people are not alien to this drift and the data reflect a socio-economic situation to which the pandemic has also contributed, with a destruction of youth employment that has led to alarming data, as the Observatory for the Emancipation of the Youth Council has found in its reports. In the face of the failure of the Government in this area too, Congress should approve these measures of political orientation, which Mr Ramírez has defended, so that in Spain the best attention to the real estate market allows to increase the supply, accompanied by measures that also increase the construction of public social housing for distribution under ownership or lease; an improvement of the market that is accompanied by a substantial decrease in taxation that affects the construction process, which is exactly the contrary to which the ministries and administrations governed by the left are dragging us. Fiscal suffocation seriously affects the Spanish economy and thus it will be impossible for the young Spaniards, who have this unfortunate European record of unemployment, to cease to be the main victims. It is a matter of urgency and it is a matter of national priority. In short, in the face of the government's false reports, in the face of the failure of youth integration into the world of work, in the face of the rampant impoverishment of Spanish society and for a specific policy in favour of young people, I will vote in favour of this motion as a result of questioning. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-19-CD211019.u132	Thank you very much, Mr. Martínez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Barandiaran Benito has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-19-CD211019.u133	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I will speak from my seat because I will do so briefly. The decalogue of populism and demagogy consists in distorting the debates, distorting the parameters and, of course, ridicule the adversary. Problems as serious as housing, the young bonus or any other performance are always supposed to be subjected to a certain degree of rigour and not to acts like this. It is also parameter of the extreme right act in this way and we will not participate in this game. As the representative of Citizens pointed out, talking about housing supply, poor soil, bureaucratic obstacles, are easy messages, too much to claim some kind of solution to the problem. We are not going to take part in this game, we are going to vote against it and we will do it constantly because we understand that the politics of the extreme right groups do not seek solutions, but only protagonism. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-19-CD211019.u134	Thank you very much, Mr Barandiaran. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, first of all, Mr Baldoví Roda.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-19-CD211019.u135	Thank you, President. I agree with you, even if it seems false, that the housing bonus is probably not the solution to the problem and that the solution, of course, goes through the construction of public rental social housing with multi-annual plans. But, man, let it be precisely those of VOX who present this motion, those who have not yet done anything to recover 3000 social homes that were sold to vulture funds... And you can do it now! Why don't they? Because they're mere servants of the powerful, and that's it. [[Rumors.-Applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-19-CD211019.u136	Quiet, please. Wait a minute, Mr. Baldoví. I want silence, please. If you want to have conversations, I invite you to do so outside the Chamber. We can't keep this rumor going. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-19-CD211019.u137	You have as your spokespersons in Congress and in the Madrid Assembly people who have sold unlicensed flats, who have done illegal works and who have forged stamps from the Official College of Architects. [[Protests]] Thank you very much for your enthusiasm.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-19-CD211019.u138	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-19-CD211019.u139	In a country with 3.4 million empty dwellings, the solution cannot be the one that points to VOX: to release all possible soil, to release everything. That recipe was already made by his great friend Mr. Aznar and we've seen how it ended. [[Protests]] You claim the same recipe as Aznar and that festival we all know how it ended. In conclusion, you always refer to okupas, and I believe that, if there are okupas, it is the fifty-four Members of VOX, who occupy their seats and who have come here, in the end, to destroy coexistence and respect among the citizens. Those are the real okupas. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-19-CD211019.u140	Thank you, Mr. Baldoví. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the same parliamentary group, Mr Boadella Esteve has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-19-CD211019.u141	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon. I'll be very brief. It is curious that, although the motion is about the measures of the Ministry of Social Rights and Agenda 2030 to make the commitment of the young bonus of the President of the Government and speaks precisely of this subject, of the young bonus, of the promise of President Sánchez, when one looks at the text of the motion he will see that in the final conclusions the word young does not appear, but that the only thing that appears, as Mr Baldoví pointed out now, is this bar free of construction, to release all the known soil, practically the known and the unknown, and to lower taxes on the building process. Frankly, if this is the remedy you have for the housing issue, I think we are going wrong, which has been little elaborated and little worked. The truth is that surely the measure of the PSOE is also not the brightest. We have passed, in this reconciliation made by the PSOE this weekend, from President Zapatero's baby check to President Sánchez's young check, but the reality is that neither President Zapatero's cheques nor President Sánchez's cheques nor Mr Almeida's cheques are the solution. All economists point out that these measures are all they do is raise the price, distort the market. In the area of youth and housing, it is therefore very easy to combat youth unemployment; this is the real problem. Therefore, that people have the right training, have access to work and be able to earn a living, and combat this youth unemployment. As far as housing is concerned - I have said it many times - if for every debate that takes place on the issue of housing someone put the first brick, there would be a public park of housing. Surely the young people who will come from ten years from now will not continue in this permanent debate, but will find a solution for the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-19-CD211019.u142	Thank you very much, Mr Boadella. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Rosique i Saltor has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-19-CD211019.u143	Another way of dealing with the extreme right is by denying it, and it turns out that last week MP Mireia Borrás, from VOX, filled her intervention with false data on housing in the Spanish state. He stated that setting aside 30% for sheltered housing costs 70% of the promotion that is not protected. This is fake. Prices do not rise as a result of housing protection, but because the market is deregulated. He claimed that this protection of some housing makes it even more difficult to access housing to the rest, and this is false. If we look at the case of Paris, we see how the establishment of a percentage of social housing has led to 20% of accessible housing. He said that by limiting rental prices, the supply of housing in Barcelona has fallen by 42% compared to last year. This is deceptive. According to the Agencia de l'Habitatge de Catalunya, the number of contracts signed fell slightly this second quarter throughout Catalonia; much more, in fact, in the unregulated municipalities, which was 7%, than in the regulated municipalities, which was just 1%. He stated that prices in Barcelona have fallen considerably less than they have fallen in the Community of Madrid. This is cheating: in Catalonia the rent price is extracted from the bonds deposited by the tenants before him Incasòl, while in Madrid similar data are not published, but the reports we have are from real estate portals. He stated that only 5% of rented housing is in the hands of large owners. This is tricky: while it is true that these are data at a global level, the differentiated reality of the State must be taken into account. The vulture funds are mainly a problem for the big cities: in Barcelona 55% of the heights of residential properties are of companies; in Valencia 56%, and, by the way, in its beloved Madrid is 62%. I recommend that you stop relying on the reports of Fotocasa and Idealista, which are not exactly impartial in this debate. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Spanish Government, that they grow is a consequence of their populist policies, which, far from being effective in guaranteeing access to housing, are maintaining access to power for those who pressure the housing market. A young bonus for housing, is this really your star proposal regarding young people's access to housing? A bonus will cause rent prices to rise immediately. This bonus is of little use if they then increase prices, this bonus is of little use if it harms other generations, and this bonus is of little use if when they stop being young they will have to pay for it. A bonus that does not take into account the territorial reality and whose quantity and access criteria are homogeneous for all young people without taking into account the different levels of income. A bonus that will be financed through the General Budgets of the State, that is, financed by all citizens, in no case by those who make housing a market property that above is inaccessible. If what they wanted was to guarantee this access to young people's housing so as to guarantee their participation in society as well, to promote this critical society, this critical thinking, to promote that young people have time to organize, to get involved, they could have forced the owners to put an accessible rent or they could have increased in the budgets the funds destined for the local and autonomous administrations to acquire public property; but no, you seem to have also been guided by what the lobbyists of Fotocasa and Idealista tell them. Against the abuse of speculators, let's get them out. [[Mrs. Rosique i Saltor shows a sign that reads: 'Fem-les-out, emancipate us']] Then they would be surprised that these people grow politically; the broth of cultivation is generated by populist policies like this. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-19-CD211019.u144	Thank you, Mrs. Rosique. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Guijarro García has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal. [[Pause]] I'm told the speaker is changing. I give the floor to Mrs Fernández Castañón.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-19-CD211019.u145	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. Sometimes you feel that time is a kind of folding paper and then you can have debates that took place fifteen years ago. I speak in this conscious motion that I no longer belong to the young population at the age of thirty-seven, but I am aware of what these debates were about the difficulty of accessing housing for young people because I also lived them as young people. Time goes by and we're still meeting headlines who are to read them twice: 'Young people resist being homeowners'. Are they resisting? They resist, why? For the beginning? No, it is that they are going through material conditions of precariousness, of 'tuberization', of a real estate bubble that broke out and out of sympathy were exploiting other bubbles and other mantras that had told us, like that equality was already a fact, that made sense the story of meritocracy, that the brick is a safe value - safe for those who accumulate floors in property due to the compound surnames of their name and inheritance -. Neither then nor now is youth like what you are accused of or what you would want. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-19-CD211019.u146	Excuse me a moment, Mrs. Fernández. I say it for the third time. I'm asking for silence in the Chamber, please. Don't stay in the halls talking. Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-19-CD211019.u147	The meritocratic discourse is a trap. No, it's not that you don't try hard enough, it's that it's called capitalism. And it is that an idea is inoculated in the culture that everyone is responsible for their failure; in fact, it has the virtue of transforming a system that drowns and prevents the development of life projects by guilt, as if it were a failure of its own. [[Pronounce words in bable]] The movements for the right to housing - the PAH and the Union of Tenants - achieved one of the most important things to my mind of the last decade and a half, which was to break the silence, the stigma and the lie of being responsible for losing one's own housing, for being responsible for a eviction, and collectivizing, politicizing the problem, because this was happening to so many people and this was happening because it was about housing as a market good and, no, ladies and gentlemen, housing is a right, not a market good. And, as the Minister of Social Rights, Ione Belarus, says, housing is a right that gives access to other rights, because a dignified life depends on its material conditions. My house is worthy, writes the poet Ana Pérez Cañamares in a beautiful text describing a house of 30 square meters, worthy as are the boat houses, canes, refugee shops, much more than the house of the speculator or the house of the bank owner, if it is of dignity of what we speak. The houses worthy for those who inhabit them must also be materially worthy because dignity, yes, also needs material conditions; because health and life need adequate material conditions, and I say nothing that does not say article 47 of the Constitution. The young people who manage to emancipate do so by leaving the salary to share infra-housing, and I say infra-housing precisely today, which we read in the Galician press how two young people of Muros save themselves for thousands of years from falling on top of the roof of their apartment for rent in Santiago. They heard noises, started to see how a dust fell and eventually gave up the roof. Do you know what the real estate agency said to them? He told them that, well, that at most they would have made a big deal if they had fallen that roof and that in any case at night they didn't look, lest it scared them. These and so many other situations are simply unacceptable and are reaching the possibilities of life and development of our youth, and that, ladies and gentlemen, is to reach the future of a society, of a country. However, what we find is that the leader of the right and the right, who is the same, is dedicated to insulting and questioning the tenants, or we find this motion, whose prescriptions are to release soil and lower taxes. The solution to the housing problem? To fatten the profits of the builders at all costs, as if they had few. Do you think that in this country we have learned nothing from the real estate bubble generated by that PP doped up by commissioners, in which, by the way, there were prominent militants and leaders of VOX? [[Applauds]] Nor do we take our hands to the head, the party of the lords is also the party of the rentists and it is logical that they defend their class interests; hence perhaps the reluctance to be talking and putting on paper the patrimony and the declaration of interests. It is true that in his motion point 1b is a sensible point, in fact, it is already covered by the law. Of the punitive populism, better in the time I remain I do not speak, but they already have the answer in both the LECrim and the Penal Code. They say they worry about real problems and I don't argue with them that they don't worry about the problems on one side, the part of those who live from the effort of others, but they don't pretend even as remote as they care about the majority who pay for their house with a lot of effort. I'm done. The housing bonus is only one of the measures that we think are indispensable. The fundamentals are in the Government's housing law, which is to talk about the suspension of evictions without housing guarantees, which is to talk about the tax on empty housing, the mobilization of the public park and, of course, the regulation of rental prices. It's over, President. In times of noise I want to quote journalist Ignacio Pato Lorente...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-19-CD211019.u148	Mrs. Fernández, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-19-CD211019.u149	Yeah, I had to stop for a second, too. Just a second. The political value of doing again against the intuition of personal profitability of which nothing dared to say. You may come here to provoke with your words. We continue to work to improve people's lives... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-19-CD211019.u150	Thank you very much, Mrs Fernández. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, I have the floor, Mr.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-19-CD211019.u151	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I understand that we have been very late in plenary, that we are almost finalizing the debates, but, moving on to support the motion, let me ask the House a question: why does Pedro Sánchez promote these bonds in the field of housing and culture? What are the reasons for the president of the government? Could it be that, like Saint Paul, he fell off the horse and wants to start supporting the culture sector? For if we see how his Government has abandoned the cultural sector during the crisis of COVID-19 to the point of having to cease the minister of the branch, it seems that it has not. I may want to solve the housing problem that young Spaniards actually have, but frankly it does not seem to be. It does not seem so when we see that those who dictate housing policies are the most radical of the government, who want to intervene the prices in a policy that has failed where it has been implemented, generating shortages of available housing and queues of hundreds of people demanding regulated rental floors, as has happened in Berlin, or when they take Zapatero for a walk as a reference of their policies. The other day, in her interpellation, Minister Belarus said that she had pictures of the struggle for the right to housing on fire. Those of us who are no longer so young have recorded on fire what Zapatero did with the young house: to give a pair of slippers while sending the queue of unemployment to half of the young Spaniards. [[Applauds]] But if that's not the case, it may be that Sanchez has changed his mind and now he wants to support culture, or he has changed his mind since Sunday and no longer wants to do the same thing as Zapatero. This could be because Sanchez has quite used us to saying one thing and the opposite in a matter of days. But, ladies and gentlemen, I don't think that's it either. Then why is Sanchez running these bonds? I'll read you some headlines. El Mundo: 'Pedro Sánchez tries to recover with the budget a million young votes lost since 2019'. Cope: 'Sánchez buys the young vote with monthly payments: they have abandoned the PSOE'. And if you don't like these media, which I see the socialist bench doesn't like very much, I read you a PSOE Zaragoza comic for the election campaign of today's Minister of Education, Pilar Alegría, where it was literally said: '300 eurazos! And what do you have to do to get them? So vote for the PSOE, which has come up with the idea.' The story, of course, ended with Jorge Azcón, of the PP, as mayor of Zaragoza. [[Applauds]] Then why does the President of the Government do this? Sanchez's reason is always the same: to remain in power costs what it costs. And when it turns out that in Madrid a large majority of young people voted for the People's Party and when all the polls - the serious ones, not those of Tezanos - tell him that he loses young votes to thousands and that the People's Party would win the general elections today, Mr Sánchez launches himself into the hunt for the vote. But Sánchez is wrong again, because the message that the young Spaniards launched him in Madrid and are throwing him throughout Spain is precisely that they want more freedom and less paternalism, that they do not want to be told how to have fun, how they have to live, whether they can go to the bulls or not because they like it or not to Podemos. With Spain at the head of Europe in young unemployment they want a job that allows them to use themselves, not that they skil their parents at taxes to give them the leftovers in the form of an electoral guinea piggyback like a Robin Hood in a sanchoist version. By the way, Minister Belarus also said in the interpellation that she prides herself on the young people who fill the demonstrations. And it seems very good to us too that young people participate in demonstrations, provided that they do not finish the demonstration by assaulting the police, convicted by the Supreme Court and refusing - which should do so not by right, but by decency - to leave their seat, like Mr Alberto Rodríguez. [[Applauds]] That does not represent nor is it an example for young Spaniards. Take note, gentlemen of Podemos. Ladies and gentlemen, we in the Group of the European People's Party are not opposed to social aid for rent, but to combining it with price interventionism and demagogy, a combination that always ends badly. We are in favour of promoting culture among young people and helping the cultural industry, but not as part of a long pre-election campaign, combined with educational laws that discourage effort, reading, study and leave this in pure electoralism. I'm on my way, President. Last Saturday, in the framework of the Federal Congress of the Socialist Party a fireworks show was included, a good metaphor of sanchismo: a lot of noise, a lot of color, but then smoke and then nothing. The problem is that the government's fireworks are being paid for by the Spaniards, until it goes through and we have to come and fix the situation...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-19-CD211019.u152	Mr. Fucker, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-19-CD211019.u153	... which will be, don't hesitate - and it's over - sooner than later. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-19-CD211019.u154	Thank you very much, Mr. Carazo. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, I have the floor. Duke Channels.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-19-CD211019.u155	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, housing plays an essential role in people's lives and dignity. It is a fundamental right enshrined in our Constitution and must be a commitment of the public authorities to promote the conditions necessary to make it effective. In particular, we must address the issue of access to it for young people, who find themselves with a wall, sometimes unbreakable, when initiating the process of emancipation of their families, making our country one of the States with the highest levels of emancipation throughout the European Union. As I say, we are faced with a structural problem that we have been grappling with for too long, mainly because of some of the past and present policies that have been implemented by the governments of the People's Party, which, when they accede to them in their actions, prevails a kind of law of the jungle, in which the tyranny of the strongest and forgets the most vulnerable people is imposed. [[Applauds]] So much so that in the 2008 crisis resulting from the real estate bubble, the People's Party Government focused its action on blaming citizens for living above their possibilities or forcing us to tighten our belts, while almost obscenely cutting down on basic issues for youth such as education, housing and health. Meanwhile, banks were rescued and rental housing was purchased for vulture funds in the real estate sector; by the way, most of them are empty today. Ladies and gentlemen of VOX, the motion you are putting forward is not new, it goes along the same lines as you have already put forward and put forward your popular partners in your present and previous governments, and you go on to urge the government to liberalise all kinds of soil or to tax cuts to the big owners; the same dog, different collar. In the previous crisis a huge amount of land was liberalized, so much so that only in the period from 2015 to 2019 250,000 homes were built in our country. Meanwhile, the price of rent rose by 50% in the same period, producing in turn the exponential increase in evictions, to a total of 60,000 in our country only in 2019, with the humanitarian tragedy of leaving thousands of families on the street, without a single measure by their right-wing governments to prevent it. At this point, it should be recalled that one of the most important measures of this Government during the COVID crisis was precisely that, the suspension of evictions, which, by the way, is still in force. The formula, ladies and gentlemen, is quite simple: social democracy in the face of neoliberalism. [[Applauds]] This is the recipe applied also today in the Autonomous Community of Madrid, where a law of land liberalization has been promoted while implementing other unpopular measures, such as indecently lowering taxes on higher incomes while launching the incendiary and premonitoring discourse that education and health cannot be free. Also the mayor of Madrid assured on his social networks, in the face of the problem of housing in his city, that he did not intend to do anything, so, with capitals, or even more serious, the assertion by the president of the People's Party, Pablo Casado, that, in our country, with a payroll and a job you can access a rent without problems. Ladies and gentlemen, this is to live in a reality parallel to others and beyond the real problems of citizenship. [[Applauds]] Fortunately, ladies and gentlemen, at national level we do have a government, that of Pedro Sánchez, committed to this issue. [[Rumors]] So much so that with the young housing bonus of 250 euros we begin a path of no return in this matter, a path that, as Clara Campoamor said at this very headquarters, referring to other matters, to arrive at the end we must start at the beginning, sometimes under a rain of stones; a path that will be accompanied by another series of disruptive measures that will be reflected in the future housing law in the coming months, which will entail a paradigm shift, shielding the social function of the housing and reinforcing the right to it at an affordable price. All this in fulfilment of the constitutional mandate to guarantee the right to decent, adequate and accessible housing for all Spaniards and Spaniards. We will vote against your motion. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] The PRESIDENT: Thank you very much, Mrs Canales. Mr Ramírez, does your group accept the amendment that has been tabled?
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-19-CD211019.u156	We're working on it. The PRESIDENT: Thank you very much. I understand you're working on a transactional. When they have it, they'll send it to the Bureau. Ladies and gentlemen, we will vote in three minutes. I remind you that you will only be able to vote from the seat that corresponds to you, identified with your name on the screen. I would also remind you that those Members who have been authorized to vote for the telematics procedure cannot do so from their seats. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-19-CD211019.u157	Ladies and gentlemen, we shall begin the two votes. We are voting, first of all, on the proposal for a law of the Republican Parliamentary Group on the prevention of sexual abuse in educational establishments. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes cast, 179 plus 168 telematics votes, 347; in favour, 179 plus 117 telematics votes, 296; abstentions, 51 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-19-CD211019.u158	Accordingly, the proposal for a law is taken into consideration. - OF THE PLURAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, INTEGRATED OF CANNABIS. [[File number 122/00164]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-19-CD211019.u159	We shall proceed to vote on the proposal for a law of the Plural Parliamentary Group, which is an integral part of cannabis. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes cast, 179 plus 168 telematics votes, 347; in favour, 10 plus 65 telematics votes, 75; against, 169 plus 94 telematics votes, 263; abstentions, 9 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-19-CD211019.u160	Accordingly, the proposal for a law is not taken into consideration. The meeting was suspended until tomorrow. It was eight and forty-five minutes in the afternoon.
