ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. The meeting was resumed. Sections 12, Ministry of Foreign Affairs, European Union and Cooperation, and 34, Financial relations with the European Union We continue the debate on the opinion of the draft Law on General State Budgets for the year 2022. First of all, the debate on sections 12 and 34 has the floor on behalf of the Government, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, the European Union and Cooperation. [[Ministry of Foreign Affairs, European Union and Cooperation]] [[Financial relations with the European Union]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, I come before you today to set out the general outlines of the budgets of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the European Union and Cooperation. These are budgets that serve Spain's foreign policy and its foreign action, which is a State policy because it has the defence of the Spaniards and the projection of their values and interests as the highest priority. Foreign policy, European policy and cooperation policy are and can only be State policies, always keeping in mind the best interests of Spain and the Spanish and the projection of their values. External action is central to the lives of the Spaniards, because our currency, the vaccines we put on, the gas we consume, all of which we manage to work together with our partners, allies and friends in the world. For this reason, my department's consolidated budget of 2022 has been significantly increased, amounting in total to EUR 1928.65 million, with a total increase of 4.13% over the previous year, reflecting both the outlook for the future and the solidarity of our society, as reflected in our foreign policy and our foreign action. We look to the future to address the major challenges we face: support for multilateralism, the profound change in our economic and social model, through the digital transition and the green transition in the face of the climate emergency, as well as assistance to Spanish citizens who are abroad; they are always at the heart of our foreign policy. The NATO summit next year 2022, the Spanish Presidency of the European Union in the second half of 2023 and the plans for the digitisation of our consular services are very concrete elements of this vision for the future, as are solidarity budgets that accompany a fair economic recovery, with an increase in the development cooperation funds of the Cervantes Institute and the subsecretariat, in the latter case focused on the execution of European funds and the digitisation of the ministry. These objectives are met by the reforms in which the Ministry is working within the framework of the European Plan for Recovery, Transformation and Resilience and for whose implementation a budget of 48.5 million euros is foreseen in 2022. I would like to stress that these budgets have a direct impact on the lives of the Spaniards. Firstly, because they defend our interests in the international sphere and, secondly, because they give priority to the needs of Spanish citizens and companies abroad. Our future as a country, and therefore the future of all Spaniards, is inextricably linked to the future of our neighbours, our partners and global recovery. For us to go well inside, we have to do well outside, and we have to work well and together with our partners, friends and allies in the world. Under this premise, the budgets that I present today have the gaze placed on the future of our country as a member of the European Union and as an engine member of the European Union; as a country and as an engine of the Ibero-American community of nations, as a leading multilateral actor and also as a major donor to the international community. The policy that has the greatest impact on the Spaniards is undoubtedly European policy. Europe is no longer a dimension of our external action, but a reality integrated into the Spanish identity itself. Being Spanish is being European, but being European also means sharing institutions, currency, vaccine and now, for the first time, common debt. We cannot do all that alone, we work with our European partners. In this context, Spain will assume the Spanish Presidency of the Council of the Union, which will take place during the second half of 2023. Its preparation is a key element of our external action, as are the European funds approved by the European Transformation, Recovery and Resilience Plan, which have highlighted the centrality of Spain's membership of the European Union in our external action. For this reason, the ministry which I lead, within its Secretariat of State for the European Union, is increasing by EUR 4.80 million as a result of the allocation necessary to meet the first preparatory expenses of the Presidency, to which a total of EUR 26.21 million will be allocated, and thus will be carried out a capacity increase, both in the permanent representation of the European Union in Brussels and in the central services, which will allow the Presidency to be strategically designed, promoting initiatives that represent us as Europeans and as Spaniards. This Presidency and our role in the European Union are hand in hand with citizens with their participation and direct involvement in mechanisms such as the Conference on the Future of Europe, in collaboration with the Autonomous Communities and the FEMP and also by increasing the allocation of the Ministry's programme We Talk about Europe. We also look to the future, within our own structures and organisation, in a way that is consistent with the objectives we have set ourselves. The 48 million euros of the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan will be used to make access to information more effective by citizens and organisations linked to external action. The Cervantes Institute will increase its budget by 8.48%, receiving 26.3 million euros of its total allocation of 161 million euros to boost the teaching of Spanish abroad. The budgets of the ministry I run meet a clear objective: to accompany recovery, fair, sustainable, and supportive recovery. This ministry has played an essential role in the recovery of the pandemic abroad. The commitment to donate vaccines already amounts to 50 million doses by the end of the first quarter of 2022. Just yesterday, together with the President of the Government, we held an event about the donation of vaccines, which received the congratulations of the Director-General of WHO. But if there is one element that marks this desire to accompany the recovery and to reflect the solidarity of our society in the budgets, it is official development aid. This official development aid has an increase of 15.39% over 2021, including a 28% increase in the budget of the Spanish Agency for International Development Cooperation, the best instrument, the best tool we have for international solidarity. This figure is one of the fundamental pillars of the increase in official aid for global development, and will reach the levels of a decade ago, with an amount of €3506.59 million. This represents an increase of 93.4% compared to 2015, the year in which ODA was the lowest recorded in general government budgets, and also represents an increase of EUR 391.62 million over the year 2021, from 0.26% to 0.28% of gross national income. Years of decline and loss of Official Development Assistance are reversed. This Government believes that cooperation should be a State policy, which can only be a State policy, and that is why we are seeking to provide cooperation with new regulatory frameworks to modernize the system and to accompany economic efforts to achieve its objectives. Spain also focuses on the global effort, on multilateralism, as the main means of achieving our objectives. To this end, the ministry has a budget of €433.40 million, which is divided into compulsory contributions, which are key to ensuring our country's commitments, and into other voluntary ones; compulsory ones reach €388.8 million and voluntary ones, worth €39.18 million, will allow us to finance international programs or actions that correspond at every specific moment to our priorities. By way of example, this is the mechanism that allowed us to quickly allocate EUR 4 million to humanitarian aid projects in Afghanistan at the beginning of the crisis. We will continue to contribute to alleviating the impact of this crisis on the Afghan population through our voluntary contributions to agencies working in the field. We are also committed to contributing to peace through peacekeeping operations, to which we have allocated a budget of EUR 165.37 million. These contributions represent a strong reflection of our commitment to peace, Spain's commitment to peace, and of our willingness to remain part of this goal in the main theatres of conflict: in Lebanon, Congo, Colombia, Mali, for referring only to the most relevant. The budgets of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the European Union and Cooperation are geared as a whole, but also in very specific headings, to the defence and protection of our compatriots abroad. Ladies and gentlemen, there are currently 2.84 million Spaniards living abroad; that would be equivalent to the third province of Spain by population number, by number of residents. Each of these Spaniards brings diversity and wealth to Spain, and they are ambassadors of our values, our principles and our culture. Nor can we obviate our companies, whose internationalization and presence in many parts of the world, increasingly in more and more parts of the world, clearly contributes to Spain's progress. That is why I wanted the Directorate-General for Economic Diplomacy to become directly dependent on the Minister; it is an expression of the commitment to his needs and to the promotion of his internationalization. Therefore, our consular action must also adapt to the new times that millions of compatriots live in different regions of the world, often in very difficult and complex circumstances. To protect and assist your interests, we have developed one of the most extensive, most secure and most efficient consular networks. For this we have launched, also with the funds of the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan, a Consular Digital Transformation Plan, with a total of 110 million euros, of which 21.6 million correspond to the budget of 2022. With this plan we are committed to modernizing consular information systems and technological infrastructures to give better service to Spaniards abroad. The ministry I run is very much in mind for our fellow countrymen who face difficulties in distant places. In order to assist them, the Ministry has a budget appropriation of EUR 3.37 million, of which EUR 2.3 million is earmarked for support for the protection of Spanish nationals abroad. With this amount, aid is granted to both welfare institutions and subsistence economic aid, and special economic aid is also granted to Spaniards deprived of their liberty in foreign prisons and for repatriations. One of my priorities is to give a new orientation to our country's foreign service, more suited to the needs of our citizens in a very changing world, as well as to global challenges. The 5907 members of the family of the foreign service -1475 working in the central services in Spain and 4432 working abroad - deserve a ministry that is equal to their daily work in the service of the Spaniards. To meet these needs, the Ministry's administration and general services area has a budget of $495.53 million, of which €79 million is for the maintenance of common services and €416 million is for embassies and consulates. This item will cover the needs arising from the transfer of the ministry to its headquarters in the Plaza del Marqués de Salamanca, Madrid, after almost fourteen years of absence from that headquarters. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, we are presenting an expansive draft budget to meet the priorities we have set ourselves as a ministry and as a government. It fulfils the objective of providing us with an effective and modern external service that serves to convey what can only be a State policy and, above all, responds to the solidarity vocation of Spanish society within, but also outside our borders, and to the commitment of this Government to work for a just and sustainable recovery also in the global context. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u3	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] In defence of amendments, Mrs Martínez Granados has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u4	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to thank the minister for his assistance in the debate on this point, because it seems that, surprisingly, there is a minister in this government who is interested in the budget debate. So, thanks for coming. We have tabled amendments, both to the joint text and to the high and low ones within this title, to reflect the priorities and criteria of the European regulation of the Next Generation Funds. In this way, it aims to guide more clearly and with more certainty the criteria to be met by investments with European funds, mainly through the Recovery and Resilience Mechanism. These amendments establish, for example, that investments with European funds are aimed at reforms contained in the recommendations of the European Semester for Spain, which are compatible with national energy and climate plans, fair transition plans and the rest of the plans on the use of European Union funds; that they are projects that are not in third country investment plans or that may affect public order or security, that do not finance current expenditure and respect the principle of additionality; that they generate added value at European level, i.e. that the value of the contribution of European funds would have been impossible to obtain by the Member State alone; that they are compatible with the European Union's Gender Equality Strategy 2020-2025; that at least 37% of the funds are intended for mitigation and adaptation to climate change. We introduce all this so that it is respected within the General Budgets of the State. In addition, investments are required to include a memo on how this expenditure will contribute to the objectives set. In this way, it aims to ensure that the Government details how the investments it plans to commit with European funds contribute to the objectives set at European Union level. In this way, we will facilitate Spain's accountability to the Council of the European Union on the sound administration of these funds. Finally, these amendments also sought to oblige the Government to report and appear before the Joint Commission of the European Union whenever there were any changes in investments made with European funds that were approved within the General State Budgets; that is, to strengthen the accountability mechanism to prevent changes in European funds or investments on the sole basis of the Government. This amendment was vetoed and could not be debated or voted on. We have tabled high- and low-level amendments to items that included or were affected by the Recovery and Resilience Mechanism; amendments that met all the requirements of the European Union, but we have found that we have also been vetoed. And why - Minister, I asked him at the appearance the other day - can the government itself present items in the budgets that the Recovery and Resilience Mechanism does use, affecting current expenses, and the rest of the parties - meeting the criteria that the European Union marks - are vetoed the amendments aimed at resolving or modifying those items? We don't understand, minister, we can't understand. From the Citizens' Parliamentary Group we have also been proposing that at least 15% of official development assistance be devoted to humanitarian action. The motivation is that there is an increasing need for such emergency response actions in developing countries, due to the impact of climate change and the increased incidence of natural disasters that also cause humanitarian crises resulting from armed conflict. In fact, on the proposal of our group, the subcommittee for the study of the regulatory framework for Spanish cooperation agreed to set that objective in its conclusions, which was subsequently ratified by the Plenary of the Congress of Deputies, and despite this the Government has not fulfilled this mandate. It was therefore proposed in this amendment to reflect this commitment again in the State's general budgets, but we have also been denied this amendment. We have tabled, as I said, many other amendments which we believe are important for the exercise of all our external actions. For example, the programme of professional practices for young people Margarita Salvatierra. It is proposed to create a programme of paid professional practices for young people in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, European Union and Cooperation and in the Spanish Agency for International Development Cooperation, both in its central services in Madrid and in its offices abroad. This encourages the inclusion of young talent in these institutions, while ensuring adequate remuneration for young people who contribute their talent to the administration. The duration would be between twelve and twenty-four months to finance it, and it is proposed to allocate an amount of EUR 850,000 in order to carry out this programme of practices. We have also tabled amendments to ensure that there is a promotion of Spaniards in the institutions of the European Union. EUR 250,000 will be allocated to the Secretariat of State for the European Union to finance promotional activities in the European Commission. We have also tabled amendments to promote the Hispanic legacy. Spain does not devote sufficient resources and efforts to combat black lies and legends about its historical presence in various parts of the world, especially in the Americas. That is why we have witnessed the destruction of cultural elements linked to the Hispanic legacy. Hence our amendment with that specific heading for the Cervantes Institute to carry out defence work in the promotion of Spanish and Hispanic heritage. Finally, we also tabled an amendment to strengthen cultural, scientific and educational relations between Spain and the United States. The Fulbright Commission is doing a commendable job, financing stays, scholarships and training of teachers, researchers, Spanish students in the United States and Americans visiting Spain. Taking into account the importance of good transatlantic relations and the need to strengthen our country's knowledge of the United States and the existing links, we proposed an amendment with an additional EUR 250 000 from Spain's contribution to the Fulbright Commission for the financing of more such scholarships. I hope that some of them that remain alive can be supported by the other parliamentary groups. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u5	Thank you very much, Mrs. Martínez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] The People's Parliamentary Group in Congress has the floor, first of all, Mrs Martínez Ferro.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, within the many spurs that we are getting used to seeing in our daily sanchism, the last episode today is that I rise to this rostrum to defend amendments which are not going to be discussed - which were not - but which are not going to be voted on because they have been directly censored. As you hear, ladies and gentlemen, Sanchez has regained his own censure of the 19th century. There is nothing more afraid of this government than the truth, and these amendments, the amendments of the Group of the European People's Party, are in line with the reality of Spain, and therefore do not fit into budgets that are all lies. However, this seemingly useless exercise becomes interesting in that it perfectly reflects the reality of this government, and not the one the minister has told us here. Censorship, veto, lack of dialogue and none to the main opposition party is what the Socialist Group and the Minister understand by sense of state. What is the image of Spain that you want to move when these budgets will approve them with the support of Bildu, BNG, Cup, Republican Left, parties that work uniquely and exclusively to hurt and destroy the image of Spain inside and outside? How are you going to put Spain in the international position it deserves, as the fourth euro economy and medium power, when what they present are false public accounts, knowing that they are? They said GDP was going to rise by 9.8% and is rising to 5%, the public deficit is 5% and the structural one by 5.2% and the public debt by 125 %. The OECD tells us that we have the worst numbers of youth unemployment behind Costa Rica. The IMF and the European Commission correct each of their forecasts, and to date we have been told figures that are not being implemented. You rule as if the Spaniards don't read the newspapers, and you can fool everyone all the time, worse than you think, too, minister, that you don't read foreign chancelleries either? Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot have a good foreign policy if we do not have a good internal policy, and that is why this government has taken our external image, and with it the defence of our national interests, to the worst moment in our democratic history. We have no credibility and we are completely absent from the main European debates. We do not even have a voice in those who affect us very seriously, such as the Brexit with Gibraltar, or with the European immigration policy, which instead of negotiating it with the European partners you have gone to Turkey, because with the neighbours of the South and the Mediterranean you are in a - I do not know how to describe it - silent suspended, in the name of discretion, as if defending the legitimate interests of Spain were shameful, when it is shameful that the transatlantic link is counted today for seconds of photo in a corridor, and that we have a former socialist president - the father of the greatest austeicide that has ever been in Spain - whitening the most terrible dictatorships in Latin America, with an accomplice silence of all of you, of Sánchez and of your partners. [[Applauds]] You have not yet said anything about the elections that have just been held in Venezuela, in an unprecedented leadership exercise, where you are waiting for others to say it first. That is why we asked in our amendments for resources to do nothing more or less than what you say you want to do in your External Action Strategy, actively promoting full and guaranteed human rights as a distinctive feature of our external action, including supporting democratization processes. Do you think supporting democratization is sending Zapatero and Monedero to observe Maduro's electoral farce? Anyone would say that what you claim is that no one ever and in any way ever trusts the Spaniards. That is why it is urgent that I support the democrats and human rights defenders openly and not silently, but you have vetoed, censored all the amendments of my group, because it pursues a foreign policy worthy of that name, with a sense of state and strategic realism. That is why we will also have to wait until Pablo Casado reaches the government. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u7	Thank you, Mrs. Martinez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the same parliamentary group, Mrs Gazquez Collado has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u8	Good morning. Thank you, President. Welcome, Minister. He is the third minister we welcome: Borrell - the fourth if we include Margarita Robles in interim character -, González Laya and you, but we greet him, welcome him and wish him luck, which in three years we have had three ministers, I insist, even four. In any case, his fate, which we wish him, will be the fate of those most in need abroad. But with such a trajectory you will not expect Spain and the Spanish to think that the Sánchez government takes international politics and politics seriously in cooperation, and so it goes, because it is not only that you are the third or fourth minister in three years, that we have had three secretaries of state for international cooperation, three directors general of the Spanish Agency for International Cooperation, in three years, three. It is impossible with so many changes that in three years there has been an argumental line, a programming and a project in the final analysis. In fact, we are still waiting for the sixth master plan - we do not know what these budgets have been based on - a master plan that has to come into force within a month and that we do not yet have, and that is the most important planning document. We also continue to wait for the agency's action plan, Aecid, which is not published by 2022. And why talk about the accounts or the memory of the 2020 Aecide, which are neither expected nor expected. He mentioned that this Government has raised the budget in cooperation. But what is telling us, if the budget is an entelequia, with a growth forecast that nobody believes, with an inflation of 5%! If we're talking about execution, about past execution, it's better to be quiet. As of 31 August 2021, only 33 per cent of implementation in the Secretariat of State for International Cooperation, taking into account that most are internal transfers and deliveries. It is just that only with a little diligence and efficiency would it have been possible to raise that figure. And what about financial cooperation, the Fonprode or the Water and Sanitation Cooperation Fund: zero obligations recognized on 31 August. We ask you to accept our amendments, which we take for granted, because we fear that again and in their line the policy of cooperation even came to mark Bildu, and we already know what it would be like, we know that the funds would go to dictatorial governments - Venezuela, Nicaragua, Cuba, Iran - and never to the oppressed population of those countries, in which, as my colleague Valentina has very well shown, we have his colleagues applauding, Zapatero and Monedero Encantados. So we continue, we insist, to accept our amendments, which are aimed at the implementation of democracy and human rights, because on that basis we will always get more facilities in health, education or gender equality. We're waiting for you here. Let's wait next year, see if there's luck and it's you and you're more lucky than your previous partners. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u9	Thank you, Mrs. Gazquez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] In turn of fixing positions, by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, I have the floor Mr Pisarello Prados.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u10	Thank you, President. Thank you, Minister. The truth is that it would be foolish not to acknowledge that this budget debate comes in a much more uncertain and complex international context than we expected a few months ago. On the one hand, it is clear that from the government and from the progressive and left forces accompanying him in this House great budgetary efforts have been made to try to give this crisis a different way out from the one that occurred in 2008; here is the example of the ERTE, here is the example of the different social shields, without which thousands of jobs, businesses, life, would surely have been wrecked without contemplation. On the other hand, however, it is true that the social emergency and the climate emergency have not remitted and are adding an important part of the population to a state of anxiety and general concern. It seems to me that the key is to know where this situation comes from and how this emergency is generated. The right-wing response we see here every day: to use catastrophe and alarmism to generate more fear, to create scapegoats that face the people below and to hide the responsibility that in all this has the huge concentration of private power that has occurred at this time, it seems to me that with an obvious objective, that is to create a state of paralysis or a sort of state of shock in the sense of Naomi Klein to re-end us the adjustment policies and cuts that were implemented after the 2008 crisis, and that have led us to an absolute disaster as a society. Day and day we also hear many neoliberal landowners tell us that the problem of inflation or the absence of certain supplies is due to public debt, at the level of wages, pensions, etc. But the truth is that this is only sustained if we do not pay attention to two key elements of the neoliberal economy, such as financialization and job insecurity. How is there not going to be instability in the prices of energy, transport, certain foods if for decades an indecent concentration of power has been favored in the energy and food market! How is there not going to be instability if for decades financial markets have been allowed to speculate with soil, with rivers, with nature, as if they were one more commodity! How will there be no shortage at this time of certain products if the working conditions in the international supply chains, in the maquilas, in the global subcontracts are absolutely shameful! Therefore, what we see here is a structural problem that we do not want to see, and it is the existence of an open and senile capitalism with signs of ever more visible exhaustion. What is the planetary eruption of the far right but the attempt to respond to the decadence of this zombie capitalism, generating fear and generating violence? Against who? We saw it a week ago, when VOX voted against two ILO conventions, against the working classes, against women, against migrants, against those who protest against this systemic violence. That sort of preventive counter-revolution that we are experiencing is the privileged 1% programme of the world at this time, but, as our colleague Pablo Bustinduy said recently, to stop it is not enough to invoke the fear of those who generate fear and hatred, there are fundamental structural responses, both at the domestic and at the European and international level, because, let us not deceive ourselves, ladies and gentlemen, metal workers in Cadiz, Alicante, the canned ones in Vizcaya, the supermarkets in Castilla and León will not cease to strike because they are stigmatised, because they are intimidated by tanks or because they are promised a green future that you may find them dead, they will only do so if their rights are respected and the employers fulfil their obligations, and if social and environmentally just reindustrialisation ceases to be a mere sign of becoming a tangible reality, also for the working people of southern Europe. [[Applauds]] We are talking a lot about a paradigm shift, ladies and gentlemen, but companies, like many States, remain too installed in the St. Augustine's prayer - Lord, make me chaste, but not yet. The truth is that waiting or returning to the old contaminating and precarious normality, as some wanted, would only lead us to disaster. That is why, beyond these budgets, the rejection of austerity and cuts policies cannot be an episodic rejection, son of the Hamiltonian moment consented to by Angela Merkel, but should be accompanied by a constitutional refoundation of Europe. How are we going to talk about a digital, social and environmentally just transition if Europe does not start talking seriously about a public and democratic government of the economy, that is, data, energy, transport? What credibility will the appeal to a Green New Deal have if an incisive fiscal policy is not already put in place against the big speculators, the big polluters, the big fortunes? This week, ladies and gentlemen, in Brussels and right here in Madrid, we had the opportunity to listen to Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva, former president of a country like Brazil, with 212 million inhabitants, and his message was unequivocal: the great problem of our time remains the inequality, which, despite the great words and the great promises, has been shot scandalously during the pandemic, and the role of the Bolsonaros, the role of the Kast in Chile, of those in this very Chamber who defend Francoism or do so in their Masses is to act as the Corps Guard, as the thugs of that privileged 1%, which concentrates more power than ever and is the main responsible for the social and climate emergency that we live in. [[Some Members: Ooooh!-Rumors.-Applause]] To say things like this, but, above all, to develop policies that brought millions of people out of hunger and poverty, Lula was subjected to an ignominious judicial and criminal persecution, and, despite everything, they have not been able to stop it; at her seventy-six years we have seen him standing inviting us to be outraged optimists aware that only by challenging the current state of affairs... [[the rumors continue]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u11	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u12	...it will be possible to build another Europe and another more just and fraternal world. That, ladies and gentlemen, undoubtedly requires concrete, day-to-day reforms to protect, to take care of, to give security to those who are going through the worst through sound policies in the areas of housing, work, health, education and income. But, if these reforms are to continue, they must be structural, to the root of the problem. That is why they must be part of a programme of broader transformations, a programme, ladies and gentlemen, which is not confined to living together with this irritable and decadent global capitalism, but which assumes the need to create a different social order, more solidarity, more cooperative, capable of bringing democracy not only to the political sphere, but also to the economic sphere. That, ladies and gentlemen, is necessary, urgent and, if there is political and social will, it is also possible. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u13	Thank you very much, Mr Pisarello. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Asarta Cuevas has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Group]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u14	Thank you, President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, good morning. With the non-financial spending budgets of these general state budgets for 2022, the Spaniards will reach a figure of 422 billion euros, expenditure never reached in Spain and which amounts to 5.5 billion euros more than for 2021, something that does not seem reasonable given the circumstances of debt, which already exceeds 1.4 times our gross domestic product, or, what is the same, each of us, each of us, each Spanish owes 30,000 euros; once again expanding and unbelieving budgets, based on unrealistic and false assumptions, with an overestimation of revenues and an underestimation of expenditures, being difficult to compare them with those of previous years due to the constant reorganizations of the ministry, a clear demonstration of their lack of political direction. Entering into detail, we find matches that are unclear neither in their ends nor in their destiny. I give a couple of examples, of the many I could cite: for studies and technical work, the budget for 2022 is almost 50 million euros for the entire ministry, 7 million more than in 2021, a huge amount, given the high qualification of the officials and employees of the ministry who could perform them in many cases; on the other hand, they are jobs that on most occasions are only excuses to pay favors to benefactors of the ideological agenda. International organizations have always been instruments for transmitting the interests of States, which control and finance them. We are not against them, on the contrary, but we must be demanding with them. [[Applauds]] That is why our foreign policy cannot be applied permanently to the interests of others or outsourced to multilateral bodies. Sometimes globalist plans have very real negative consequences for the Spanish on foot, who always see their interests second to those. The budget continues to maintain extraordinary contributions to these organizations, which have not served their objective of placing members of the Government in any of these institutions, with slightly more than EUR 500 million this year, which, if we add them to last year's ones, are already worth one billion. As for the new and emerging Secretariat of State for Ibero-America and the Caribbean and Spanish in the World, its budget of 80 million euros is actually reduced to some 4.5 million, because 76 million are transfers to the Cervantes Institute, which should be responsible for defending Spanish outside our borders. The creation of this new Secretariat of State would be good news if it really brought about some real change in Spain's foreign policy, but we are afraid that it will be just a new office of placement for some of its multiple clients, nothing disposable, because, analyzing in more detail those 4.5 million, it is not explained the employment of 2.6 million euros in personnel only to manage 460,000 euros and transfer 76 million euros to another institution. Thus, empty of content and real management, it is also possible to think that this Secretariat of State is a negotiator in charge of the turbulent affairs of this coalition government on the other side of the Atlantic, namely, the Delcy case, the financing of Podemos by Cuba and Venezuela, the payments to Mr. Monedero, the rescue of Plus Ultra, the attempt to escape Bolivian leaders through our embassy there, the payments of the Embassy of Ecuador to the environment of Podemos, and so we could continue for a while. As for the Cervantes Institute, its current fit within this new Secretariat of State does not mean anything real, just moving organs from the Secretariat of State of Cooperation and changing names. The Cervantes Institute will have slightly more than 161 million euros for next year, against 173 million last year. However, this budget is misleading, as it will receive transfers of €76 million from its Secretariat of State, as well as an investment of €26 million in various digitisation programmes associated with the European Union Recovery and Resilience Mechanism, and to all of the above will have to be added revenue for the provision of services of €46 million. With regard to the Secretariat for International Cooperation, here is the great ambush of the budget. It accounts for more than half of foreign spending, which means prioritising third-country nationals in the face of caring for Spanish interests and caring for Spanish citizens abroad. Moreover, it is a huge economic volume in the hands of a highly ideological agency, Aecid, with recent financial scandals millionaires, disappearance of millions in Panama, and very low level of real control of its impact and effectiveness. By 2022 this Secretariat of State will have 673 million, which, in addition to the 491 budgeted for Aecide, make a total of just over 1164 million euros, 168 million more than for this year and 313 if we take the year 2020 as a reference, and all this without counting the nearly 300 million for vaccines of the 143.A program, which have placed as part of the Ministry of Health. We do not have here the rest of the items of other ministries that are counted as development aid and that, according to their own data, would reach 3152 million euros by 2022, 0.28% of the gross national income. And here there is an important risk of great magnitude, as government parties have been advocating increased development aid cooperation up to 0.7 per cent of GDP. This would be a way to consolidate a trapping growth by taking advantage of the exceptional nature of vaccine donations in the 2022 budget for the future to allocate that volume to their chiringuitos and ideological subsidies. What are you going to tell the Spaniards about this? And the inhabitants of La Palma, in particular? Do you think it is normal to increase external spending in this way, when the situation of economic, social and now also energy crises is out of control? Or are you going to tell them that a thousand or three billion is nothing, kiddo? [[Applauds]] With regard to financial relations with the European Union, it is noted that with EUR 26 million for diplomatic action before the European Union, this Secretariat of State is the poor relative of the Ministry, despite which we again denounce its unjustifiable duplicity with the General Secretariat of the European Union, with a rank of undersecretary and subordinate to the former. Thus, with the current situation in Spain, this increase in spending in the ministry does not seem highly recommended or feasible unless the Government continues to breach its promises, as it usually does, and continues to raise indirect direct taxes indiscriminately and indebt the State to limits that we had never before known, more than 1.4 times the gross domestic product, and one more abuse: the appointment by royal decree of 19 October 2021 of an ambassador to the Special Mission for a Feminist Foreign Policy who is neither a diplomat nor a career official. Finally - I conclude, President - when the resources of the nation are scarce and the prospects for the future are not very flattering, the most sensible and advisable seems to be the concentration of efforts and the containment of expenditure...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u15	Mr. Asarta, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u16	I'm on my way, President. ... to deal with major contingencies that may come in the future, always taking as a priority the Spaniards and their well-being. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u17	Thank you, Mr. Asarta. For the Socialist Group, Mr Gutiérrez Prieto has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u18	Thank you, President. Gentlemen of the PP, our daily sanchism. Is this what they teach you to pray to Mr. Casado at the 20N Masses in Granada? [[Applauds]] Please, a little more respect and decorum! Thank you, Minister, for presenting these good budgets for the defence of the general interests of the country and for the Spanish foreign action; good budgets for three reasons, first of all because they promote economic recovery from the beginning of social recovery. And at this point I would like to thank the People's Party for having tabled an amendment to the whole, because, put not to be loyal to a Spain that needs these budgets, what less than to be sincere, because, in fact, these budgets are totally different from those you would have made and those you did to get out of the economic crisis from 2011 to 2018. And I thank you for this exercise of sincerity because, in fact, you will not find any cuts in them, any wage devaluations or tax amnesties. They are budgets so that the exit from the crisis does not mean a wave of poverty and inequality on the shoulders of the Spaniards, but the logical consequence of policies that defend that with redistribution and social protection a more just society is achieved, but also a more efficient economic policy. For example, gentlemen of the PP, speaking of Europe, do you remember what you did on the European Union's battlefield in the previous economic crisis? You - your government, Rajoy's - went to the community institutions to ask for up to 100 billion euros for banks and brought as a condition 20 billion cuts in education, health care, pensions. [[Applauds]] You brought a salary devaluation and also a bar free of layoffs. How is it not going to sound to you, then, that at the same negotiating table this government has achieved EUR 140 billion for businesses and workers, increasing wages, regaining the purchasing power of pensioners and changing EREs for ERTE? Do you realize that? These budgets are an amendment to the whole, but to their policies. Let me give you a visual acuity test: we have the same scenario, Europe; the same context, an economic crisis; the same aid, some EUR 100 billion, but different results, a fair exit, in the face of an unfair exit. What's changed? The interlocutors and the principles they uphold. Also, Minister, I would like to thank you for these budgets, which are good for Spain's credibility abroad, because Spain is going to be, despite the right-wing bench, in the next two years one of the epicentres of the international agenda and of the European agenda and these budgets prepare us for this: first, to host the NATO summit, in a scenario of strategic review precisely because of the new challenges we have in the Sahel, in the Indo-Pacific, in the Maghreb or with Russian influence, as well as to prepare for the European Presidency, at a time when it is necessary to relaunch a Europe that faces demographic, climate, digital challenges with political ambition and social soul. But you, gentlemen of the PP, call this to have little international influence. Let me give you a little test of patriotism. What do you feel when you listen to the President of the European Commission say that Spain represents the European social soul, the President of the European Council say that Pedro Sánchez demonstrates the leadership of European dignity, when you listen to the World Health Organization saying that Spain is the world example of vaccination, or the Secretary-General of the UN saying that Spain is the vanguard of defending the civil interests and values of the United Nations itself? What do you feel, feel pride or is it that the button of patriotism is only set on you when you rule, and not when you are in opposition? [[Applauds]] I would like to remind you of your foreign policy service sheet, yes, because where we have European Union presidencies today you have put us on the trio of the Azores, where today we have NATO summits you have delighted us with Operation Perejil, yes, at dawn and with rising wind, and where today we have a stable and recognizable presence in all multilateral agencies you have given Mr Aznar on the Texas ranch or Rajoy's cousin, instead of COP 26, so please, when you speak of Spain and your foreign agenda, a little bit more loyalty and a little bit more humility. [[Applauds]] Finally, they are good budgets, Minister, because they put Spain back at the heart of its foreign policy, in culture and international cooperation, first with the Cervantes Institute, which promotes knowledge of Spanish throughout the world, beating records of students and centers. Gentlemen of the PP, do you remember how many centers opened at the Cervantes Institute when you were in government? I remember him, zero. Do you know how many people tried to cut and close? Over ten. These budgets presuppose the opening of the centres of Dakar, Los Angeles, Seoul and Gibraltar, because, in the face of the beatings with Spanish, the Government of Spain what it has is done. [[Applauds]] And, of course, they are good budgets for international cooperation, so abandoned and despicable during their years of government that they serve so much to collaborate in the construction of a more just and supportive world. Ladies and gentlemen of the PP, you have spoken today about the understanding of foreign policy with regard to international development cooperation. What was an entelequia was the cut of more than 90% of the budgets in international cooperation while you were ruling with Mr Rajoy, that was indeed an entelequia. We are very proud to say that these budgets represent more than twice as much in international development aid than in 2015, recovering in international cooperation almost a decade lost, that of you in the Government of Spain; we are very proud to increase the contribution of this Government in strengthening multilateral agencies, in the face of the neo-nationalisms of the twenty-first century; we are very proud to increase the budget of Aecide and the NGOs because we are deeply linked and grateful to the people who are doing their best to promote and fight for a world more just beyond their borders. In short, we will vote in favour of good budgets for Spain because they promote their recovery, of good budgets for the external image and credibility of Spain on the international agenda and of good budgets for those for whom we advocate a global action based on principles and values: those of solidarity, those of social justice, those of internationalism...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u19	Mr. Gutierrez, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u20	...as the most important and beautiful flags for our flag on behalf of Spain. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]] Section 28, Ministry of Science and Innovation
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u21	Thank you, Mr. Gutiérrez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] We continue with the debate in section 28, Ministry of Science and Innovation. For the section presentation, the Minister of Science and Innovation has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u22	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Today I appear before you to detail the budgets for scientific research and innovation in Spain for the year 2022. These are the budgets of the drive to science and innovation to transform the country. Investing in science is investing in development, it's investing in the future. As with the VOCID pandemic and the volcanic eruption of La Palma, in the face of the dangerous threat of climate change, in the face of the grey tsunami of population ageing or in the face of the imperative digital green transformation, it will not be enough to cross your fingers or look elsewhere. The answers are in science, and for it to move forward we must provide it with resources and activate courageous scientific policies. Society knows that and we in this room can't miss it. A large majority of the Spanish population believe that the Government should invest more in science and technology, according to all demoscopic studies. In the face of the transformations that our country has to undergo, we need more than ever our scientific, innovative and entrepreneurial talent, our most valuable capital. With this firm conviction, the Government of Spain plans to devote the largest investment in science and innovation in our country's history. With a total budget of €3843 million, our ministry almost doubles its resources compared to 2020; 90% is increased in two years. Ladies and gentlemen, these are also the budgets of the pact. With them we are on the path marked by the objectives of the Pact for Science and Innovation, an agreement between the social, economic and political actors to achieve a public science system in line with the excellence of our innovative scientific community, and a consensus to consolidate a stable and lasting investment in science and innovation that reaches the average investment of the European Union in R & D+i, that is the challenge. And they are also the budgets of science by and for people. We will create more and better opportunities so that people who research and innovate can generate the knowledge and solutions that improve the life of the citizenry and contribute to the modernization of our productive fabric and to a solid, sustainable, cohesive and just growth that reaches all the houses and territories of Spain. We will advance these objectives through the budget that I will present to you, with which we will achieve five goals: more Spanish research, better scientific infrastructures, more culture of innovation in companies, more science and innovation in all the territories of Spain and, consequently, more and better opportunities for those working in research, technology and innovation in our country. I'll explain it to you one by one. First goal: more research. We want to continue to generate Spanish science and for this we will fund more research projects through competitive competition calls. After ten years of cuts and stagnation, we will increase the opportunities to carry out research in Spain. In this context, it should be noted that the State Research Agency, our country's main scientific funding instrument, increases its budget by 112% in 2022 compared to 2020, and will therefore have 1358 million euros in 2022 to finance research. With this historical budget, we continue to bet on basic science, traditionally supported by the State R & D & i Plan and strengthen research focused on strategic projects of the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan, such as those related to the ecological and digital transition. And we will also strengthen health research through the Carlos III Institute of Health, our flagship health research vessel that this year will launch calls worth 278 million euros, both for basic research and for projects applied to advanced therapies and precision medicine. Second goal: To improve the scientific capabilities of our research centres. If we want higher quality research, we will also have to invest in equipping the public science system with more capabilities, infrastructure and equipment of excellence, modernising with this shock plan and which will last for years in the system. To this end, we will invest a record budget of 1818 million euros to strengthen our public research bodies, which are the Carlos III Institute of Health, the more than 150 centers of the Higher Council for Scientific Research and the Center for Energy, Environmental and Technological Research. This represents a 61% increase in resources for our IPOs compared to those available in 2020. These investments will enable the creation of international reference centres, thanks to the implementation of new infrastructures such as the first laboratory of maximum biological safety in Spain, a new oceanographic ship or laboratories of experimentation in advanced batteries. Third goal: more innovation culture. If there is to be more innovation in our country, we must promote a greater culture of innovation and strengthen collaboration between the public and private sectors. That is why, from our innovation agency, the CDTI, we will devote EUR 1566 million in grants and credits to promote business R & D+i, 48% more than in 2020. It is an unprecedented public investment to attract private investment, key to the recovery and transformation of our country and to achieve together, the public and private sectors, the desired target of 2% of GDP in R & D by 2023. We will also advance in the public-private collaboration of the 21st century, with a new concept of an entrepreneurial state, which has materialized in new calls of the Misiones and Cervera programs, as well as with pre-commercial public procurement and public innovation procurement so that innovative companies have opportunities to develop advanced prototypes aligned with the needs of our society, having in the public administration its first user. Fourth goal: more science and innovation in all territories. We will continue to promote that science and innovation will have opportunities in all autonomous communities, strengthening territorial cohesion and deepening the territorial expansion of our R & D & i. The Ministry of Science and Innovation is already present in all the territories of Spain, and we will continue to strengthen this relationship with the investment of 136.8 million euros in scientific and technical infrastructures distributed throughout the Spanish territory. In addition, and in a complementary way, for the first time, the Government of Spain and the autonomous communities will jointly investigate, through the complementary plans, a pioneering network of co-governance and financing in R & D+i. These are eight programmes around eight strategic areas: marine science, biodiversity, quantum communication, biotechnology applied to health, energy and renewable hydrogen, new materials, agro-food and astrophysics and high-energy physics. Each of these programmes will involve the State and at least four autonomous communities, and will mobilize 456 million euros until 2025. We will also accompany the municipalities, so that they can fulfill their roadmaps through innovation. We launched a new programme to support the incorporation of innovation agents into municipalities, through the Impulse Network, which will have an investment of 10 million euros in 2021 and 2022. Finally, I explain our main goal: to create more and better opportunities for our talent. As a result of all the above, more jobs will be created in our country in the R & D & I sector. The first to do so is the public sector. The Government's two budgets have given research staff priority consideration for public employment, with a replacement rate of 120 per cent. This means that for every ten researchers who retire, twelve are incorporated. This measure makes it possible to rejuvenate the staff and reverse the effects of the cuts applied by the People's Party Government, which led to a brain drain and the blocking of the professional careers of an entire generation of young researchers; only one thing: since Pedro Sánchez is President of this Government, 2746 new positions of investigating officer have been approved. In addition, this year and next we will greatly increase the supply of contracts for doctors in the public sector. In 2022 we will dedicate 151 million euros to increase the salary and the number of contracts, mainly of the programs of excellence Juan de la Cierva and Ramón and Cajal. These increases will involve the recruitment of more than 2500 doctors between 2021 and 2023. In the field of innovative talent in companies, in 2022 we will continue to open opportunities, prioritizing the hiring of doctors in technology-based companies within the calls Neotec, Cervera and Torres Quevedo, endowed with 90 million euros. This budget that I have just presented to you will be accompanied by the deployment of structural reforms of the system that will fight against the precariousness, inequality and administrative obstacles that persist in the R & D+i system. This Government is aware of the problems and is determined to reverse this situation through the reform of the Law on Science, Technology and Innovation, which will come to this House in early 2022, as well as other normative instruments that will come to recognize the uniqueness of the Spanish scientific and innovative system. President, ladies and gentlemen, I shall conclude. Through the budget that I have just detailed we seek a transformative science and innovation, with greater social and economic impact. Ladies and gentlemen, we are facing a new opportunity to create a more resilient and knowledge-driven tomorrow and an innovative look. We play our future and that of the next generations. We are also faced with the opportunity to transform the Spanish scientific and innovative system to make it possible. I therefore trust your support for these budgets, which will help boost science and innovation by and for people as a lever of progress and social well-being in Spain. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u23	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] In defence of amendments, Mr Mazón Ramos has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u24	Good morning. Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, first of all, I support all the amendments that have been tabled by the other political groups included in the Joint Group. Therefore, in particular I will only refer to mine. Previously, I would like to recall that one of the priority tasks we have is the fight against climate change. In this line, we not only have to work with nature, but we also have to defend ourselves and prevent ourselves from it, because the truth is that nature throughout history has caused much damage to humanity and must be defended. That is why I always say that we must neither deny nor disregard the work that is done from the point of view of engineering, because it seems that today all that is touching nature is negative. All of this is very naturally related to your section, because I really believe that science and technology throughout history have brought much more benefits to humanity than anything else, be it politics, religion or any other matter. As your ministry has indeed grown considerably, 8%; moreover, if we add to it the increase of more than 60% - which I have pointed out - last year, we are already talking about considerable figures. It is true that it started from a rather low amount, but in any case these growths are welcome. Then there is another set of R & D & i expenses in other sections, which in some cases might be very good in your department too, but we welcome it to grow and we hope you will spend it well. Because, as we repeat all the time, I believe that everyone in this House already has the important thing to do is to use it effectively, and management is the great unfinished business that this government has in spending the money it has. The Regionalist Party of Cantabria, the PRC, has only tabled one amendment. We have requested an increase in the subsidy from the Cantabria Institute of Environmental Hydraulics. Mr Revilla already last year asked his predecessor to contribute EUR 1 million, in line with the same as the Government of Cantabria, and also in line with what exists in other similar institutions of the State. In this case we are quite far away. Minister, you took the opportunity to ask him to pay a visit to the facilities of the Cantabria Institute of Environmental Hydraulics because, apart from being delighted, he will be very interesting for your management. Because the Instituto de Hidraulica Ambiental de Cantabria, which is an institution of the university, of the Government, supported by the prestigious School of Engineers of Caminos, Canales and Ports of Santander, which is the first school that was held in Spain after that of Madrid, is probably one of the five most prestigious institutions in the world in the field of coasts, in everything concerning the water cycle. For an idea I will give you some data: the great tank of marine engineering - probably you know it because it is included in the five infrastructures added for marine hydraulic research and it appears with the acronyms Marks in the budgets itself -, that it has a channel of tsunamis that can model and simulate the wind, the wave, the currents from all over the world, has done studies in more than 200 000 kilometers of coast all over the world to follow the evolution of climate change, more than 1200 projects in 64 countries, 85 public administrations, companies and studies for tsunami mitigation in more than five countries, and was chosen unique Spanish project by the European Union to celebrate its 30th anniversary. We are here before an institution that is moving forward, working, but which is the only one of its characteristics that over the years has not had any regular public funding and that has been maintained thanks to the efforts of its staff, its managers, who are maintaining it thanks to everything that is achieved outside, but it would be essential that it had that public funding base that would allow it to continue. There is also another very important thing, which is being specialized in something that is related to energy production, which we have been talking about lately in this House. This institute has specialized in offshore hydraulic energy, i.e. windmills on the high seas, and here it seems that a real formula for the future has already been found. That's why it needs to be implemented and here we have a strength that we don't have to waste; we always have to rely on our own strengths and on Cantabria, which is a small autonomous community, we are very proud of that institute and our school of engineers and also of other institutes such as the Idival, which is the Institute of Health Research in Valdecilla, one of the certified by the Carlos III Institute. The truth is that all these institutions need a great deal of support and I believe that any investment of any kind will give them much back to society and, in particular, to what we are talking about, which is fundamental to the future of this country. I just want you to take good advantage of these funds that come from Europe, which are also considerable and have a very targeted objective. As you can see, we do not make weight amendments, we do not make thousands of amendments, we are going to do something that is concrete, that is possible and effective, and I hope that from here on in the vote you will be able to consider it with the groups that support the Government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u25	Thank you very much, Mr. Mazón. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Díaz Gómez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u26	Thank you, President. The truth is that in Citizens we have had a serious logistical problem in order to be able to negotiate both last year's budget and this one. And we had no negotiating material, we had no prisoners for trying a coup d'état to which to pardon; we had no terrorist prisoners to whom to approach or give the third degree; we had no proposal for secession to defend, no nationalist project to promote or no territorial privilege to impose on others. For you any gang of criminals who say that their crimes have the ultimate goal of breaking Spain is likely to reach some agreement with the government. The nationalism you used to attenuate coup and terrorism. Nationalism as a legitimizing perfume when negotiating with the Government. You believe that trying to break Spain is an attenuating, a justified aspiration. You are the most progressive government in history, you rely on all political forces that defend inequality and privilege. It is true that annihilating morality always gives a competitive advantage to those who are able to eradicate the principles, but very high price is paid for the whole collective and you are installing a snail on the foundations of our democracy. Didn't they have another option? Yes, they had another option, an alternative: the liberal alternative. It is up to us now to talk about science and innovation. I'm sure Otegi and Junqueras have proposed very interesting things for Spanish scientists. Otegi, for example, has proposed a study on the banality of evil and routine homicidal drive in Eichmann, and Junqueras, on the hierarchy of the Spanish races. I am convinced that these are very interesting projects. I want to tell you what you have rejected, what you have refused to talk about. We all know, for example, the conditions in which researchers work in Spain, hopefully, are mileurists and their working life is linked to the validity of the project in which they are working. We, in the face of the plan of incentives to coup, propose a plan of incentives to innovation, which has been vetoed. We propose to increase the percentage of deductions from expenditure incurred during the tax period for investment in innovative activities from 12 % to 25 %; we propose to remove restrictions and existing limitations on possible deductions so that they affect as many companies as possible; we propose to increase the discounts on the amount of deductions for R & D activities up to 30 %, and we propose to increase the threshold of the amount of deduction applied up to EUR 2.5 million per year, thus increasing on average more than 50 % of the tax benefits to business investment in R & D. In the face of the plan of attraction of terrorist prisoners, we proposed a plan of attraction and retention of the research talent. Denied. We propose a progressive tax bonus for companies that hire researchers, encouraging that this contract is indefinite and lasting at least five years. We propose bonuses in the contributions to Social Security for the recruitment of research staff who would have left Spain to continue their research and obtain their doctorate in Spain, the long-awaited return of researchers. We propose lines of help to the recruitment of research staff who would have left Spain to continue their research in facilitating SMEs that would allow them to follow the work here. We propose the revision of the Statute of Predoctoral Research Staff in Training to eliminate the precariousness of predoctoral contracts. They have also forbidden us to advance up to 3% of GDP in science investment with the 2030 cashier as an objective to achieve this percentage I tell you, but they have vetoed it. You can change the multicolored circle and hang a rabbit leg from the flap, because it is clear that your commitment to science is more linked to shamanism. And we still have an amendment, Madam Minister, which you might find interesting, which proposes a plan to combat anti-science, pseudotherapy and anti-vaccines. With the rise of populism, the shamans, conspiracy theories and those who believe that the world is run by lords who caress cats in secret rooms have arrived. This ends with bison men assaulting Parliaments, ends with democracy cast before the creatures of Dr. Moreau. And it's that populisms feed on fear. A pandemic generates a logical fear, but it takes to sustain it over time to generate fear about the remedy, in this case that occupies us, about vaccines. In fact, there are movements that disinform people who, in good faith, believe them, and these people I want to address from Citizens and those we want to get the information we have from scientific evidence. We want a campaign that basically alerts these intoxicators, who live out of fear and need people to be suspicious of everything to get them into their arms. To me, someone to look for a lake monster on Lake Ness, who believes Elvis lives in Matalascañas with Jesus Gil, or to sit in front of Area 51 ET exit, seems very good and harmless. The bad thing is when these same characters start talking about medicine and have people who know about communication orientating themselves. It does not cease to be paradoxical that he enjoys more respect who says that in the face of a virus the solution is not a vaccine, that who casts love letters, for example, to the Yeti, because the latter does no harm to anyone, except himself if - as in the song of Krahe - he is going to look for the Yeti the Himalayas. But the one who denies the effectiveness of a vaccine and is dedicated to spreading the idea is dangerous to society. I do not agree that the vaccine should be compulsory, fortunately in Spain we have a culture of vaccination against characters who until recently were looking for crocodiles in the sewers, but they should be answered and countered by the public authorities, and I encourage all Members of this House to exercise from the platforms they have to address citizens. There are some who do. Against the virus, the vaccine. Against conspiracy, the illustration. And against fear, freedom. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u27	Thank you very much, Mr. Díaz. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Navarro López has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u28	Thank you, President. Good morning, minister. I will try in my speech to follow the five points that you have highlighted in yours, in an intervention, by the way, which was very typical of a speech at the beginning of the legislature. I also told Mrs Yotti in the Committee on Budgets. But one, listening to him, has the feeling that you have been ruling for a month and the reality is that you have been ruling for three years. If this were a normal legislature - although with Pedro Sánchez we have to admit that nothing is normal - it would be his last year of legislature. That's the reality, and you've made a speech about: we just arrived. When the one that has just arrived is obviously you, that is true, but that is not the fault of the researchers, neither of the companies nor of the Spanish as a whole. Because what you present today - you always say - are the budgets of the model change. With these budgets the Socialist Party intends to change the model, and they say so by arguing from two points of view. The first, saying it's a budget with historical growth. The second, saying we've had a decade lost. And I'm going to fight both statements. As you have said, literally, minister, that the People's Party has no arguments, that we don't bring anything and that we just know how to say no to everything - something you know is not true, and that's how you recognize it in public and in private - I will use other people's words to make them more credible from your point of view. First statement he made: historical budget. Do you know what the delegate of the Workers' Commissions at the CSIC said in the Sub-Commission for the Study of the Reform of the Law of Science and the Pact for Science? He literally said: Comrades of the Socialist Party, the increase in the budget is makeup. It was said by the Workers' Commissions, not the perfidious People's Party. They have no ambition and propose failed attempts. I repeat, it is said by the Workers' Commissions. I would like to stop at this from the lost decade, because it is repeated a lot, a lost decade of investment in R & D. What decade did we choose, until 2018 that stopped ruling the People's Party or until 2021 that it is today? Choose. If we choose until 2018, 2008-2018, draw the bills, the People's Party ruled six years and you four. Six and four. Therefore, if you want us to talk about 2008-2018 I would sit down before the clothes, because the cuts were from José Luis RodríguezZapatero, the cuts were from the Socialist Party. [[Applauds]] To hear the Minister of Science speak of the lost decade and forget that four out of six years ruled his party... Do you want us to use 2011-2021? They have been ruling for three years and, by the way, that decade began with the Science Law of the Socialist Party, a law that the People's Party supported, but they will agree with me that talking about a lost decade when the first was a law of their own is also not the smartest. That's why they talk about the lost decade and I'm sure the Socialist Party is going to do it again, and if a lion's lord I have the utmost respect for, remember that four of those years ruled another lion's lord, of his party, obviously. But you have decided to rely on the Republican Left of Catalonia and not the People's Party. Since we don't care much, I hope you listen to the investigators, the predoctoral ones. What is this law for? To get stronger with researchers and innovative companies. For the FPUs what they want is to have labor rights, and you know it and have committed to them, and you have vetoed the amendment of all parties, including the People's Party, so that the FPUs have labor rights. You, your Government, the Socialist Group, have vetoed. You were the minister of consensus, of dialogue, who came to sit with everyone, and you did not want to discuss this amendment with me, you vetoed it, you have made it impossible for this Congress to talk about the labour rights of predoctoral researchers. So, what we get out stronger is depends, because predoctorals don't have labor rights and you don't even dare to debate it. But it's just that the People's Group doesn't say it, the FPU says it, the BNG says it, the More Country says it, or the Citizens say it. And you have vetoed the amendment, just as you do not want us to talk about the labour rights of hospital researchers, exactly as you do not want us to talk about technology centres. Do not listen to the Group of the European People's Party, pay attention to Fedit, pay attention to Cotec, presided over by former Socialist Minister Garmendia, who has said exactly the same thing as us: tax incentives for innovation. Veted. Less procedure with the reasoned report. Denied. You don't even dare talk about what organised civil society wants us to talk about in this Congress of Deputies. How are we going to get out of the crisis without innovation, without researchers and without innovative companies, Minister? The reality is this, the reality is that these budgets are for science, for the law of science and for the covenant. You said it. Science law. Where is he? We don't have it. I told you in the Commission, you will have the support of the People's Group on two conditions: first, that it is a law supported by the researchers. You - congratulations - are now responsible for the Socialist Party of University, Science and Research. By the way, the Socialist Party joins university, science and research, but in the government there are two ministries. He said: we are going to start the growth of employment on the public side. And so, for the plugs, for the advisors, for the friends. Two ministries. Why do you in your party have a single area and here you have two? Explain it. Why don't they join ministries as well? I say this because it is another amendment by the People's Group, we want a ministry to devote money to what is really important. If he doesn't listen to us, if he doesn't listen to the FPU, if he doesn't listen to Cotec and he doesn't listen to Fedit, why doesn't he listen to Valencian farmers? We have tabled amendments so that IVIA, i.e. the GeneralitatValenciana, your Government, investigates cotton and xylella, you know what I'm talking about, the biggest threats citrus have in our country. [[Applauds]] Do not listen to me, pay attention to the Valencian farmers, who are very worried and want the funds in research to be increased, to be done by the Valencian Government. That is another amendment that these people, who do not know how to contribute anything, have tabled. Or listen to the citizens of La Palma, who ask us for more volcanic research. We have also tabled an amendment to increase investment in volcanic research. Minister, end of story. Do not disregard the work of the People's Group saying that we do not contribute anything, because what we have presented is the work of civil society, it is the ideas of the Valencian farmers, of the Spanish researchers, of the companies that strive to invest in innovation and, ultimately, of all those who do want to come out stronger and want us to do it among all of them. That is why I ask you to listen humbly to the contributions that we have to make in this budgetary procedure. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u29	Thank you very much, Mr Navarro. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Cortés Gómez has the floor on a position-setting basis by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u30	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, talking about science at the current juncture means facing three major challenges. The first challenge, which has to do with the medical challenge, is at the same time a national and global challenge and it has to do precisely with the consequences that the pandemic has left and whose solution only passes through a robust public health system and for all. The second challenge is the challenge of the digital society, which opens up enormous communication, administrative and cultural possibilities, but also opens up enormous challenges. On the one hand, we have the challenge of hate speech online; on the other hand, we have the enormous challenge of massive and indiscriminate surveillance of citizens, challenges that have to do with cybercrime and, of course, the challenges that have to do with algorithmic discrimination based on race, sex or ethnicity. There is a third challenge, perhaps the most important at global level or the most urgent, and it has to do with climate change, in which we must join forces to invest in energy renewal and to move away from nuclear, coal- and oil-dependent energies and to bet on green renewal, on natural and clean energies, such as wind and solar. In this sense, we must tell the People's Party that photovoltaic energy continues to work at night thanks to the fact that science has invented energy accumulators. Ladies and gentlemen, if anything has taught us the pandemic, it is the importance of scientific research and the central role of science in responding to common problems, which are national, but also, as I said earlier, are global and affect all and all, without distinction as to class, race, religion, ethnicity or culture. From laboratories and hospitals around the world, as well as from computers at kitchen tables or small desks at home, researchers from the world came together to deal with the crisis, as Gabriel Leung, Dean of the Faculty of Medicine at the University of Hong Kong, said. Anyone who had any skills or experience offered himself, left everything literally and started working exclusively against COVID. This is science. Science is essentially collaboration, both at the national and global levels. COVID has taught us first and foremost that science is collaborative and has a global social and democratic value. Without the international transfer of scientific knowledge and networking, the world in its global dimensions, as we have seen, would stand still. Well, ladies and gentlemen, the new budgets continue to be an expansive path for our scientific system and for its internationalisation, further consolidated with contributions from the new European funds. I think it is good news that these budgets, having an annual character, assume the foundations and purposes of the Spanish Strategy for Science, Technology and Innovation 2021-2027, because this means integrating a logic of multi-annual planning, which is so necessary for national science and for European science. Some data make clear the expansive nature of these budgets for our scientific system. Compared to the last budgets, the increase amounts to 18.9%. But it is important to remember where we came from, and here I answer to the spokesman for the People's Party, indeed. We came from a decade of cuts from the People's Party, Montoro's budgets. I would like to remind you that the budget for the recruitment of civil servants has been cut to 90%. [[Mr Navarro López raises his hand and teaches four fingers]] No, no, no, sir. And I would also like to remind you that it left the replacement rate for science at 10%, while the current government increases it by 120 %. These are data, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]] However, direct investment in science since 2020 has increased by 89 %. This figure, ladies and gentlemen, is very significant: the change of course is undeniable. These budgets also design a future horizon. We want to highlight the fact that actions for young people amount to EUR 1680 million, and this is a 96% increase over the previous year. They are also budgets that are decisively committed to innovation. For a sample, a button: the items allocated to the CDTI reach 1560 million euros, i.e. an increase of 4 % over the last budgets. On the other hand, recognizing the many advances, we are concerned - and I would like to keep it in mind - that it is a priority for the Confederal Group to ensure that pre-doctoral researchers have compensation at the end of their contracts such as that of any other worker. This is an outstanding challenge, and I would like to see our position recorded once again. Finally, I would like to thank all the actors in our scientific system, and especially scientists, for their work and contributions to public debate are always an incentive, not only for politics, but for developing a science of progress. Thank you very much, President. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u31	Thank you very much, Mr. Cortés. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Utrilla Cano has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u32	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen. Welcome, minister. Science is in your hands, so luck and the bull, although you bulls I'm afraid you don't like it very much. I will fix VOX's position on these budgets. VOX is absolutely in favour of increasing investment in science, because Spain, of course, is not up to the standards of the countries in its environment, and these countries are the ones that devote the most resources to science, are more competitive, generate more wealth and retain more talent. But, minister - and here is the key - before watering our research bodies with European funds, it is essential to reform the administration, lighten the bureaucratic monster of the parallel state that you and the People's Party have created and that neither of you dare to dismantle. If you do not undertake the necessary reforms to optimise our research, we will remain angry at the cumbersome administration, and you will continue to reap the very low rate of implementation of the European funds denounced by the IGAE. Minister, what good is it to us to have historical budgets if you are able to implement them? [[Applauds]] In addition, it is essential to pursue a research policy based on productivity and linked to industrial objectives. What do we mean by that? First, we need to set priorities. Pretending to be pointers at all, we won't be pointers at anything. Identify those fields in which, by our idiosyncrasy, our geographical location, our industrial or business experience, we can achieve excellence. Be brave, minister, because that's what it's about to rule. I give you examples: Estonia, a small country that is a world leader in cybersecurity; or France, in all nuclear technology; or Israel, which has placed a few in the top ten of Nasdaq companies in just a decade. All these countries have a common denominator: a national strategy clearly defined by research and innovation. They put the long lights, instead of the short lights; they looked towards the future with perspective, instead of looking at the navel. In short, those countries and Governments led. Unfortunately, the only leadership this government has is to be at the head of Europe's youth unemployment and the fall in GDP throughout the Western world. [[Applauds]] Secondly, it is a priority to consolidate a secure framework for innovation, where public investment, private investment, academic research and civil society entrepreneurship are in the same direction, in the direction of the strategy we have discussed before. And third - you said in your fourth goal - take advantage to promote rural Spain, locate research centres in low-population areas. This government repeats over and over again that of abandoned Spain - abandoned by you, Minister - and all the decisions you make sink you further into misery. They attack hunting; the Taurus world; they shut down nuclear power stations and thermal power stations; they ban livestock farms and criminalize farmers; and they close civilian guard barracks. In short, they sow desolation, poverty and exodus. [[Applauds]] With sadness I have to tell you that history repeats itself. This is a book deja vu. A year ago, the government and its media machinery announced a 9.8 per cent growth in GDP by 2021. The figure has been falling as the year progresses, and right now the Banco de España is talking about 6.3. Well, a few months ago, 'cause right now they're counting growth at 4.6. That is 5.2 points of difference, Minister, tens of billions of euros. This is barbarity, and right now you repeat it again with the budgets for 2022. This is no longer a calculation error, minister, but a gross statistical manipulation. They speak again of a 7% growth, when all - I will not repeat the data - analysts speak of tenths less and even points less. On these foundations, which are only misleading conjectures and assumptions charged with irresponsible optimism, it is very difficult to build anything solid. You have spoken again today of the famous lost decade of the People's Party, with its very low investment in science, which may be true in part because part of it was also ruled by you, but that no longer sells. Minister, Mr Sánchez took possession of this government more than three years ago, in June 2018. And what has changed since then in science? Well, I'll tell him. Have we recovered any talent from all the young people who left Spain? Ask for the figures, see how many have returned to Spain. Have we ascended to any innovation or research rankings in Europe? I'll answer that. In the Global Innovation Index we have fallen from 30th to 28th place and we are ahead of world powers such as Estonia, Malta or Cyprus, so another striking success of the Sánchez Administration. You said it yourself a few weeks ago. He stated that the ministry he now runs is a very clear commitment to democratize science and to stimulate citizenship. That was also what you said in the third goal you explained to us today. Perfect, minister, but you begin by stimulating and bringing science closer to this government of which you are a part, because you are filled with the importance of science, but in the pandemic you considered personal researchers not essential and confined them to your homes, when, obviously, they were key to recovery. [[Applauds]] This parliamentary group tried to do so by proposing an initiative in the Commission to set up a permanent scientific committee to advise the Government. Even Minister Duque praised him, but the whole block on the left voted against. You know why? For a demolishing idea: it came from VOX. I'm finishing up. The world of science is bureaucratized. The results are sacrificed to the procedures and the appearance of effectiveness is more important than the effectiveness itself. Change this or mediocrity will triumph over excellence. Let the scientists work on their own and don't put sticks on the wheels. Simplify bureaucracy and unnecessary hindrances so that our researchers do not lose a bit of energy on unproductive issues and optimize their efforts. They end once again with the regulatory and administrative context, increasingly rigorous and restrictive, which is totally incompatible with the idiosyncrasy of scientific activity, which requires high degrees of flexibility and operational capabilities. Minister, put the beast of bureaucracy on the regime, remove fat so that it is more agile and more efficient, or else it will end up devouring you. You have squandered the money of the Spanish mischiefs and also the prestige of our scientists, and above all - most seriously - you will lose the historic opportunity, with European funds, to give Spain the necessary modernity to face the future and to place science once and for all where it deserves. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u33	Thank you very much, Mr Utrilla. [[A cleaning service worker disinfects the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, Mr Alfonso Cendón has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u34	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, minister. We are faced with historical budgets, accounts whose aim is to consolidate a just social and economic recovery that leaves no one behind, responding to the main challenges of our country and betting on science and innovation as fundamental tools to ensure our progress and development. These budgets include, for the second consecutive year, the largest investment in our country's history in science and innovation, with €38 billion and a rise of more than 19% over the 2021 budgets, demonstrating the commitment of the Spanish Government to make these investments sustainable over time, fulfilling with Europe, with the conclusions of the Reconstruction Committee, with the Science and Innovation Pact, in which we are working and in which I hope that all of us here will create. This consolidates a trend that allows our country to converge with the European average, thanks to the almost doubling of investment in R & D+i, with an increase of 89% in just two years, leaving clear its enormous effort in prioritizing R & D+i as a bet for a future of hope and progress, leaving behind definitively the lost decade in which the People's Party took us, with an unprecedented cut in R & D+i and which condemned to exile, Mr Navarro, thousands of scientists and scientists of our country, assuming a serious setback for Spain. And I remind you of one thing that I don't think you understand: investment in science can never be pendulum. We cannot move forward to go back, because to achieve the level of investment in science again it takes a while, and that is why it is the lost decade of the People's Party. [[Applauds]] Thanks to science, the work of our scientists, our scientists, we are overcoming this pandemic. We have had certainties and answers to the crisis, such as the crisis of the volcano of La Palma; I send all my affection and affection to those affected. And thanks to science we are also fighting the negationism of this country and the present in this House, with terraplanists, with deputies and deputies who question climate change or gender violence, and with Mr Casado, who even last week said that farmers were milking at night, who at night questioned technological advances in renewable energy and believed that electricity could not be produced with solar energy. Of the Masses in honor of Franco, whether by day or by night, one is not lost. [[Applauds]] That is the level of the right and the extreme right of this country. Faced with this, this progressive government and my party have always believed in the progress of Illustration, in truth and in the use of reason, of scientific research to address problems and give answers to the unknowns of life. These budgets have been drafted in the light of the present, but above all, in the future, of the major changes and changes that our country needs: the ecological transition, the digitisation of the economy, social and territorial cohesion and equality. And yes, ladies and gentlemen, these are also the budgets for gender equality between men and women in science and innovation; there is a battery of measures to ensure, strengthening the capacities and the operation of the National System of Science and Innovation, increasing resources for public research bodies, the State Research Agency and CDTI to advance the stabilization of the scientific career, to attract and retain talent and, ultimately, to achieve a system of science commensurate with the excellence of our scientists and scientists. [[applause]] That is to say, science is once again advancing in our country despite the lost decade and despite you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, and it is thanks to an unprecedented bet from the President of the Government for science and innovation. [[Applauds]] In particular, the State Research Agency has increased its budget to EUR 1350 million, with a 60% increase over 2021. They also highlight the €1.8 billion earmarked for the largest budget in the history of the CSIC, the Ciemat and the Carlos III Institute of Health. And, on the other hand, the CDTI is reinforced by more than EUR 1.5 billion, enhancing culture and innovation and strengthening its role as a driving force for business innovation and public-private collaboration, because without our companies we will not be able to achieve our desired target of 2% of GDP investment in R & D. These budgets also make a strong commitment to cooperation between administrations and the decentralization of science as a tool for social and territorial cohesion, with complementary plans with the autonomous communities. I would also like to highlight the EUR 5 million aimed at incorporating innovation agents through the municipalities included in the Impulse Network, with the commitment to democratise and institutionalise science at all levels of the Spanish administration. The budgets also include an additional EUR 151 million to increase the salary and the number of postdoctoral contracts, mainly through the Ramón and Cajal and Juan de la Cierva Programmes, with the recruitment of more than 2500 doctors between 2021 and 2023. Health and scientific personnel will also be considered essential and, therefore, for the purposes of public employment, the replacement rate will be 120 %. I think it is important to stress that the entire increase in the budget of the Ministry of Science and Innovation is made in non-financial items, placing our country above the path of public investment marked as a goal in the pact for science and in the law of science, in which everyone here hopes that we will achieve a great consensus. We will deal with fundamental issues, such as the compensation of the fellows and, ultimately, improvements so that the science in our country is up to what it should never have lost when it ruled the People's Party. Ladies and gentlemen of the right, this is the time to demonstrate your commitment to science and innovation in our country. Abandon the politics of brick and urban ball that has always characterized them. We have waited for you in all the progress of our country and, hopefully, you have arrived late. Today they have the opportunity again to bet on science and support the Pact for Science. Be responsible, be on time, tie your shoulder, abandon the no to everything and support these budgets, which are the best vehicle to ensure the progress and recovery of our country and to make Spain a more competitive, more sustainable, more prosperous and more just country to live in. Remember, ladies and gentlemen, by betting on science we all win. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u35	Thank you very much, Mr Alfonso. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Section 13, Ministry of Justice The next item is the debate on section 13, Ministry of Justice. For the presentation of the section, I have the floor on behalf of the Government, the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u36	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are faced with historic budgets that seek a fair recovery; budgets that bravely face the challenges that have challenged us for decades: social cohesion, territorial cohesion, digital transition, equality and ecological transition. And, logically, the justice system could not be left out of this great country challenge. I appear before the plenary of the House to report on the figures provided for in the section for the Ministry of Justice in the draft Law on General Budgets of the State for the year 2022. In the area of justice, we intend with these budgets to take a step forward in transforming our administration of justice into a medullary public service within the framework of the welfare state. We have for this purpose, duly coordinated, with the own funds and also with the funds that come from the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan, which support the implementation of three of the reforms in terms of efficiency that are in the preliminary draft phase at this time: the preliminary draft of the law of procedural efficiency, the preliminary draft of the law of organizational efficiency and the preliminary draft of the law of digital efficiency. The preliminary draft of the Law on Procedural Efficiency of the Public Justice Service introduces procedural reforms to give more agility to the processing of judicial proceedings and to enhance the means of settling disputes appropriate and parallel to the jurisdiction itself. The preliminary draft Organic Law on Organizational Efficiency of the Public Service of Justice is committed to the creation and establishment of courts of instance, the evolution of the peace courts towards the new municipal judicial offices and also the establishment of the Judicial Office adapted to this new judicial organization, which has been being sued for many years by the justice sector. Finally, the preliminary draft of the law on the digital efficiency of the public service of justice will introduce in the Administration of Justice the new technologies with which our society is already living, increasingly digitized, because the judicial system cannot be looking inwards, but must be looking outwards, centered on citizenship and also centered on the rest of the administrations. Ladies and gentlemen, the budget resources of the Justice portfolio in this draft budget amount to EUR 2284 million, EUR 235.4 million more than the previous ones, representing a total increase of 11.5 %. Of these 2284 million, 2208 correspond to the participation of the Ministry of Justice, which represents an increase of 232 million euros - i.e. 11.8 % - while the participation of the General Council of the Judiciary is 76 million euros, which implies an increase of 4,2 %. Within the overall amount provided for the political objectives of the Ministry of Justice, EUR 210 million is collected as an annuality planned for 2022 under the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan, an increase of EUR 182 million and a variation of 656,2 %. Allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to stop for a few minutes in the Recovery Plan and in its importance for improving the capacities of the justice system as an element of country transformation for its contribution to the 2030 Justice Plan, which is perfectly aligned with the axes and objectives of the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan. Justice 2030 is not a plan of the Ministry, but it is a plan to co-rule with the autonomous communities - with those with transferred competences in the field of justice, twelve of them - and also governed at institutional level with the General Council of the Judiciary and with the Attorney General's Office, but also with the Spanish Federation of Municipalities and Provinces and with the rest of the professionals in the field of justice. In a breakdown of the expenditure chapters, the main budget items in section 13 of the Ministry of Justice would be as follows. Chapter 1, staff costs, amount to EUR 1646.74 million. This is the amount that covers the salaries of staff working in the Ministry of Justice, which represents 73.3% of the Ministry's budget. For the financial year 2021, it will increase its appropriations by EUR 42.30 million, from EUR 1604.44 million to EUR 1646.74 million, by 2.6%. It is true, however, that we need to make improvements in staffing within the framework of the three preliminary drafts I have pointed out earlier, which support and which are the scaffolding of Justice 2030, so that, once they come into force after the parliamentary procedure, we will be faced with a new organisational model. In this direction, the public employment offer of 2021 has been an ambitious step. Recently, 150 public employees have been incorporated into the Ministry of Justice and some 700 new entrants have been requested in the coming years. Among the improvements that we are going to undertake is a 120 per cent replacement rate for the Legal Service of the Administration of Justice and the rest of the officials in the service of the Administration of Justice; the creation of 70 new judicial bodies; the expansion of the tax base in 70 places, as well as the transformation of 219 third-level positions into second-level positions in the Ministry of Public Prosecutions, which has been being requested by the Prosecutor's Office for many years, and a job offer of up to 200 places for entry into judicial and fiscal careers, with a view to the numeric stabilization of the offer of public employment for judges, judges and prosecutors, the reduction of the interinity and coverage of the new procedural and structural organizational needs of justice in the medium and long term. In Chapter 2, current expenditure on goods and services, there is an increase of EUR 5.66 million, representing an increase of 4%, from EUR 141.16 million to EUR 146.82 million. Chapter 3, financial expenditure, is increased by EUR 305,000, to EUR 330,770, due to changes in the budgetary allocation of certain items. With regard to current transfers, Chapter 4 increases by EUR 18.5 million. This is an increase of 27.8%, from EUR 65.03 million to EUR 83.08 million. In this chapter, in the first place, we can highlight EUR 15 million from the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan for free legal assistance in mediation - covering both that of the autonomous communities with transferred competences and the territory of the ministry - as well as the maintenance of the endowment intended to finance the psychological assistance of the victims, provided by psychologists and psychologists who are integrated in the offices of assistance to victims and other professionals within the territory of the ministry. Finally, but not least, there is also the increase in the allocation for free legal aid from EUR 49.18 million to EUR 53.29 million, an increase of 8.4%. We include here both specialized assistance resulting from the commitments of the State Pact against Gender Violence, with a 40% increase, and specialized assistance for the provision of the implementation of Organic Law 8/2021, on comprehensive protection for children and adolescents from violence. As regards Chapter 6, real investments, it is increasing by EUR 46.25 million compared to the budget for 2021, by 23.7%, reaching EUR 241.2 million in total. Of these, 14,5 % is allocated to infrastructure, equipment and buildings, while the remaining 85,5 % will be devoted to the transformation of justice. One of the keys to this chapter is the improvement and consolidation of technological means. EUR 206.61 million is dedicated to investments in new computer equipment and also in programming licences. The other great key of this chapter is that of works and equipment of buildings of judicial buildings, with 26.42 million for the year 2022, of which 72.37 % - i.e. 19.12 million - correspond to new work and 27.63 % -7.30 million - are destined for replacement works. The largest increase in all budget items takes place in capital transfers, Chapter 7, which receive a contribution of EUR 120.71 million, from the current EUR 8.01 million to EUR 128.72 million. Of these, 125.83 million will be allocated to the autonomous communities through the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan for co-governance projects. Chapter 8, financial assets, maintains the same allocations as in 2021, a total of EUR 619 910. Ladies and gentlemen, in relation to the autonomous bodies under the Ministry of Justice, the General Judicial Mutuality increases its budget for 2022 by 12%, up to EUR 125.04 million. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to refer to the Centre for Legal Studies, which will have a budget of EUR 16.25 million, an increase of EUR 3.5 million and 27.4% more than the budget approved for 2021. Within the appropriations for the Centre for Legal Studies, I would like to conclude by highlighting a measure which represents a great step forward, a huge step forward: a credit of EUR 1 620 000 to meet the scholarship programme for the preparation of oppositions to judicial and fiscal careers, to the higher body of lawyers and lawyers of the Administration of Justice and to the body of lawyers and lawyers of the State, in order to promote real and effective equality in access through the elimination of barriers of a socio-economic nature, democratizing access to these professional careers so that people with a great vocation to devote themselves to the justice sector can do so without having to face these barriers. We are faced with a vertebrating project of society that will allow us to correct one of the main weaknesses of the current system of access to these bodies of excellence. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, reducing the digital divide, digital cohesion, social cohesion, territorial cohesion, dialogue between administrations, dialogue between the various political forces, shaping justice as a core public service of the welfare state, of the social and democratic rule of law that characterizes us, and increasing equal opportunities in access to the public service and also in access to justice for all our citizens. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u37	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] In defence of amendments, Mr Bal Francés has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u38	Thank you, President. Good morning. Madam Minister, the first thing I want to say is that the budget of the Ministry of Justice is increased by 11.7 % this year, but basically it is all European funds; that is, the increase in relation to what we might call national funds is only 2.56%. If we take into account that Spain is the second worst country in Europe in the implementation of the European funds and if we take into account that the European aid for the last six-year period 2014-2020 - which was just EUR 12 billion and not EUR 27,000 this year - was only implemented in just over 30%, you will understand that your budgets are quite unbelievable to me that they will reach that poor sister who has always been justice. Secondly, and even if it is not a strictly budgetary matter, I would like to use this intervention to talk about that component that your party has reached with the People's Party so that people with fingers - friends and prepared people - are president and deputy of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection. From here I want to say to the people that she really is an expert in data protection that the call period is open and that she is present, to see if we do not consummate the troupe between the Socialist Party and the People's Party in the distribution of the state, in the distribution of the posts. In terms of infrastructure, we find that building construction is budgeted at EUR 15 million, while last year it was at EUR 32 million. We talk about those buildings where we think of many justice professionals because the air conditioning doesn't work and why the heating doesn't work; about those judicial offices where all the staff in the administration of justice take their own house heater in winter. We are talking about these indecent conditions in which most of the staff work in the service of the Administration of Justice. And, look, you're lowering the renovation of buildings by 44%. But what we call to the sky of these budgets is that, having reached an agreement of wage dignity with the three bodies serving the Administration of Justice - which the old ones we continue to call assistants, officers and agents - the Ministry of Finance has arrived and has said that it does not comply with that agreement in order to raise the salaries of the staff who are serving the Administration of Justice in the territory of the State to the weighted average of the highest salaries that, for the same work, receive this same staff in the autonomous communities. You don't have a word. You close an agreement and, finally, it turns out that the Minister of Finance does not approve of the agreement. You are pleased with the staff at the service of the Administration of Justice! Imagine how the lawyers are when we have to go to the courts. And what did I do with the lawyers from the Justice Administration, the former court secretaries? What do you say? According to last year's Budgets Act, additional provision 157 also had to dignify its conditions. Do you know what you have achieved, Minister, with the lawyers of the Administration of Justice? Never seen: that all associations unite against the ministry: progressives, conservatives and independents. Everyone unanimously understands that the ministry neither covers them nor defends them. You have offered them a shitty ascent, when it turns out that with the reforms of the procedural laws you have assumed new competences, when the head of the Civil Registry of Madrid and that of Barcelona is put in place and you again offer them a misery. A misery! Please see if, once and for all, this ministry is responsible for remunerating our justice professionals and not for carrying on its shoulders the responsibility that this public service ultimately be given to the citizens, of course, not because the ministry is involved, but because we are faced with front-line public servants who suffer a huge personal sacrifice to do good service. I say the same to judges, judges and prosecutors: they are among the worst paid in the countries around us. But it is that they work much more than those of the countries in our environment, because we have an average of 11 judges per 100,000 inhabitants, when in Europe it is 21 - 18 if we are talking about full-time judges - and 5 prosecutors per 100,000 inhabitants in Spain instead of the 11 in Europe. And on top of that, they claim that prosecutors take charge of criminal instructions, when we don't have prosecutors, we don't have judges, and we pay them badly. I tell you clearly: I think it is a miracle that justice in Spain works, a miracle that is not due to you, but - I insist again - to public servants. Business shift. Like every year, on the business shift we meet with the accounting makeup. For when at once the reform of the barems of the office shift? How can it be that in the Basque Country a matter is paid at 311 euros, that the Spanish average is 153 euros per case and that the lowest remuneration, in Andalusia, is 106? Does it seem to you that, by carrying out a matter of business and providing a public service of undeniable significance, a service that is essential for vulnerable groups, lawyers and prosecutors can find themselves well remunerated with these miserable amounts? Miserable songs! Because EUR 153 per case can't get into a barrage. You assume digital transformation, that's where all the European funds go. I want to tell you one thing: I was at the first LexNET meeting, which took place in 2004. LexNET was implemented in January 2016, twelve years later, without storage capacity and with incompatibility between systems. Finally, as you will understand, when the courts still ask for hard copies, I have no confidence in implementing their digitization. Finally, thank you for the scholarships, but I want you to know that the body I belong to is still called the State Lawyers Corps. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u39	Thank you, Mr. Bal. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Rego Candaimil has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u40	Thank you, Madam President. Unlike last year, in which the draft budgets clearly mistreated Galicia, the BNG has not tabled an amendment to all these General State Budgets, given that on this occasion territorialized investment grew and exceeded EUR 1 billion. We have no doubt that the position of firmness of the BNG in relation to the accounts of 2021 denouncing discrimination against our country and voting against it was useful and led to a correction by the Government. In any case, from the outset, we call these budgets better and insufficient, both because of the lack of a clearer and more determined bet for social policies - and especially for a fair and redistributive fiscal policy - and because investment in Galicia - despite the increase produced - remains clearly insufficient to compensate for the historical deficit in investment, infrastructure, equipment and services in our country and to meet the peremptory needs of the present, particularly to tackle the serious industrial crisis that we suffer. [[The Lord]] In any case, the BNG did not submit an amendment to the whole of the draft resolution, which sought to provide an opportunity for dialogue and negotiation in order to improve these budgets and resolve some important issues. In fact, we were talking until this very morning, but unfortunately the result is disappointing. We agree on some issues that we hope the PSOE and We can maintain in support of our compromise amendments or proposals, but without any real effort by the Government to incorporate vital proposals to improve the quality of life and well-being of Galicians and Galicians. He went on to say that the BNG is not going to vote in favour of these budgets. We cannot do this because it is consistent with the defence of the interests of our country, Galicia. There has been no significant progress in improving investment in infrastructure, especially in modernizing our internal rail network; nor in expanding services, such as the deployment of railways in the urban and metropolitan areas of our country. Even, finally, the possibility of fulfilling one of the relevant measures of the investment agreement was frustrated by the creation of new gender-based violence courts in our country in Santiago de Compostela, in Ourense and in Lugo to have more resources to combat macho violence. Because, Minister, on the eve of 25-N you will agree that if in this the words are important, much more so are the facts. There was no agreement on the necessary impetus for the consolidation and regeneration of our ries in order to improve their environmental values and to fully recover their productive capacity and neither was there any will to deepen more just social and tax policies - raising minimum pensions, lowering VAT to essential products, increasing capital tax progressively from EUR 1 million, amending the predoctoral contract, etc. -. In fact, all our amendments in this area were vetoed by the Government. But the BNG, taking into account the economic and social situation of our country, was also marked as a fundamental objective that these budgets served to solve the industrial crisis in which Galicia is immersed, with closed companies and hundreds of jobs lost in recent months, and with key companies in crisis and at risk of disappearing: Vulcan, Barreras, Alu Iberiana, As Pontes, Siemens Gamesa, Vestas, Alcoa... The list is unfortunately long. And we're talking about employment, thousands of people affected, life projects in the air. A solution must be put in place and the BNG is prepared to do so. That is why we have tabled amendments on this and why we have also emphasized some of them in order to reach agreement. For example, in Alcoa's public intervention to ensure the continuity of the activity in A Mariña and to safeguard it in its entirety of the jobs. In fact - I want to be clear about this - Alcoa's public intervention would simply justify supporting these budgets. While Paris is well worth a mass, economic activity and jobs in A Mariña are well worth the BNG's favourable vote. Let no one have any doubts, we would have supported the budgets in exchange for Alcoa's public intervention. Regrettably, the PSOE was unwilling to take that step and turned its back on the thousands of people who have been fighting for a solution for the future for years and who, on the 17th day, went out massively on the streets in a general strike to demand the actions of the Galician and Spanish governments to solve the social, economic and industrial crisis in this region. And I cannot fail to surprise and imagine that many - including voters from the ruling coalition parties - will be disappointed that PSOE and Podemos will twice vote in favour of BNG resolutions in this Congress in favour of Alcoa's public intervention, but at the time of truth they refuse to act and give the only decision that can finally solve the problem. Workers make it clear when they cry out in demonstrations and mobilizations: The solution, an intervention. As I say, disappointing. We have always said that we would like to be able to vote in favour of these budgets because that means that they are good for Galicia. Unfortunately, we cannot support them because they could clearly be better, but the Government lacked the will to do so. A missed opportunity to treat our country with justice, to treat Galicia with justice. In any case, the BNG will continue to work consistently in defence of the interests of Galicia, the popular classes and the social majorities of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u41	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr. Santamaría Ruiz has the floor for the People's Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u42	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, I don't know if you've ever seen what a wasp does in a pylon, which is thrown around all the time, but developing doesn't develop anything. For that has happened to you in your speech, as a wasp in a pylon, you have based the intervention of the Secretary of State in the Committee on Justice, but what it is to bring new, you have contributed nothing. He has limited himself to singing numbers as if it were a girl or a child from San Ildefonso, which must be typical of the dates we are in. A regrettable intervention, Madam Minister, because of its superficiality, if I may say so. Ladies and gentlemen, in order to explain why we are calling for the return of section 13 of the budget for the financial year 2022, we must first explain the betrayal - and I say the betrayal - perpetrated by the Government against judicial officials by violating the mandate of Parliament included in additional provision 157 of this year's Budget Act. Mr. President, time is not counting.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u43	Excuse me.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u44	Courtesy.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u45	If he'd shut up, he'd have more. [[Laughter]] Excuse me and thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u46	It is the fair play practiced by the People's Party, minister. [[Applauds]] The Minister will recall that this provision included an improvement in the specific complement of the lawyers - as Mr Bal has said - of the judicial aid body, the management body, the processing body, in order to approve their salaries to which their colleagues in the autonomous communities receive. It seemed logical: at the same job, equal pay. And you have failed them and betrayed them. That provision, ladies and gentlemen, also mandates the Government to improve the salaries of lawyers in order to bring them into line with the new functions they have been performing for years, and you have not hesitated to betray them either. That is why all the associations, as Mr Bal said, including the progressives, have asked for the resignation of your entire team, Mrs Llop, which should make you reflect. And when it comes to trade union organizations, you reached an agreement with all of them after eight months of negotiation, you reached out to sign an agreement, and then you didn't show up at the table on the day of the signing because Treasury denied you the funds necessary to comply with the agreed. Madam Minister, it is true that your word, that of Sánchez and also that of the Government, goes to the level of garbage bonds, but breaking an express mandate from Parliament and violating the constitutional right to collective bargaining by refusing to sign what was agreed at the negotiating table we had never seen; never. [[Applauds]] You have acted not only as a girlfriend to escape so as not to sign the agreement, if I may express it, but also have missed you too. The same thing happened to Mr Campo last year and we told him, and we're also going to tell him: it happened like Cagancho in Almagro, you preferred to run away instead of showing up in the Moncloa to fight and get those funds, as was your duty. Madam Minister, let me tell you that you have not been left with dignity, and I say this because people who dress by their feet never miss your word. I came from a land where two people held hands and were worth that handshake as well as a signed and written contract. You did not know or wanted - I do not know if you could - to defend that agreement, because it gives the impression that justice is of little interest to this government except to worry about it and because you do not paint too much, if not to say anything, in this government. And when a person with a word who dresses, as I say, by the feet, or who should dress by the feet, leaves her lying down, as has happened to you with Mr. Sánchez, that person can only choose a way, which is to throw his own love and go with his head high to his house. That's what you should have done, and I'm not saying it. Have you heard what trade unions and professional associations say? Let me read the literal tenor of the statement that CSIF, STAJ, Commissions and UGT, the four organizations that sat with you to negotiate at the negotiating table, made public after mobilizing last day 20: 'With this non-compliance the Minister of Justice, Pilar Llop - I literally read - and the Government of Spain break the principle of good faith... and jeopardize the success of the pending reforms.' They denounce 'the irresponsibility of the minister - eye, minister - who is missing from the affairs of this department and from the problems of justice and - attentive - occupied with her image of'star-gyra' by Spain, outside this conflict for which she is the main responsible. ' I hadn't heard such harsh words against a minister in a while. This is said unanimously by all the unions - I am glad that it produces smile and hilarity - including one, the UGT, which until 1990 I believe was compulsory membership for members of the Socialist Party. See how curious it is that even your union tells you what it just said to you. All united against him and all because of his inability, his sad, inane and resigned attitude. Madam Minister, we will ask for your appearance, we will ask in plenary, we ask questions in writing, but above all know that your word for us has ceased to have any value whatsoever. We do not believe in your word and, therefore, as long as this issue is not resolved, it will be very difficult, but impossible, for you and we to reach some kind of agreement in the Committee on Justice. What you have to do is comply with the agreed. Madam Minister, may I also use irony to tell you, when you refer to these budgets, that Mrs Montero dares to call them precise, that you have not accepted a single amendment, amendments in which we have requested more judges, more judges, specific measures for those affected by the volcano of La Palma, and you have not accepted any of those suggestions. He cast irony to tell you that you do not settle for saying that you are precious, be more pompous and, as happens with the brandy that distill next to my people, that you call it Insuperable, you presume that you have insurmountable and unbelievable budgets, because you are, as Minister of Justice, what Nadia Comaneci to the gymnasia, that is, a minister ten because it is a phenomenon of epic dimensions, an omniscient minister with a ministry that knows everything, with a precious, insurmountable and unbelievable budget. Something, Minister, incredible in democracy. Do you know, Minister, that from the political lust that you practice in the government it is impossible to reach omniscience. You are far from knowing everything, yours is simply pride. We, in introducing the amendments to Section 13 and the rest of the budget document, have fulfilled the duty of a party which does not conform to agglutinating discontent, but wants to agglutinating all those who want you to stop living in Moncloa. With these proposals we say that another way of governing is possible, with our amendments we set out the solutions that we believe can be used to solve the real problems of the Spaniards, with our amendments we ask society not to resign itself and not to accept that you are a necessary evil that needs to be endured, we tell you that there is hope and alternative, that here is the People's Party and that we are prepared. We are loyal to our duty, as we have always done, and there are our amendments, but not only our amendments, but what we bring in the Committee on Reconstruction: economic measures that you have rejected. Madam Minister, there are the metal protests in Cadiz, those in Galicia, those of the students, those of the farmers, those of the farmers, those of the fishermen, those of the prison officials, those of the police, those of the civil guards, those of the automotive sector, those of the users of the light, those of those who have to pay 30% more to fill the deposit of their car and also those of the judicial officials, to whom they have betrayed, less evil than no one will be left behind. You go from victory to victory, boasting of a social shield until the final defeat. You have had us there, you have us there and you have our proposals there, it is a pity that it is more important for you to obey Otegi than to act wisely. The responsibility for this budget by not accepting a single amendment will be yours alone.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u47	Your Honor, you must finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u48	Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u49	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Vehí Cantenys has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group to set positions.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u50	Thank you, President. Good morning, minister. Today we want to talk about an issue that is on the agenda and in the media, but which here has not been appointed, at least by the minister, and is that we want to talk about Francoism within the judiciary. It is a theme that is fashionable because Mr. Married went to a Mass where they prayed for dictator Francisco Franco and then said that he did not know that Mass was for Franco. But the serious thing is not that Mr Casado does not resign, the serious thing is that he has to resign because of his ethical sense and not because there are democratic institutions that ensure that any reminiscence to Francoism is something that is not allowed. You have presented the law of democratic memory, a law that speaks of truth, justice and reparation, of human rights treaties and even of a prosecution specialized in victims and historical memory, and to us seems very positive the approach in relation to the victims, but it is not allowed to prosecute the crimes of the dictatorship once again, and as Mr Bolaños clarified, when some headlines explained that it seemed that the government opened the door to investigating the crimes of Francoism, saying quickly to the amendments that have been tabled by the United Podemos, the CUP, Esquerra, Bildu, BNG, Together and PeCAT that this would not be possible and that the Amnesty Act would continue to be a lock. Madam Minister, Francoism unfortunately persists in the judiciary, and we are not talking about the last judge to whom FAES was voted in this Chamber, but about, for example, the various sentences prohibiting the investigation of the crimes of Francoism by relying on the Amnesty Act of 1977, which you and the majority of citizens will be aware of. I quote three examples: Supreme Court, 2012, acquit Judge Garzón, but again pose that crimes cannot be investigated, or when the Military Chamber of the Supreme Court refuses to review forty-seven death sentences of Francoism, or when the National Court, in a 2018 ruling, argued that the crimes of Francoism could not be retrospectively investigated from the Historical Memory Act of the Government of Zapatero. Francoism persists in the judiciary because, according to historical memory studies comparing countries such as Argentina or Chile, countries in which the military were protagonists of most of the tortures, in these studies it is said that in the Spanish State the protagonists of the crimes were mainly the judges. And no one here has gone through a court of inquiry into crimes against humanity. And Francoism survives in the Judiciary because if all these sentences that we said before are based on the Amnesty Law, if all the speeches go towards the Amnesty Law, somehow a continuity of the framework of the dictatorship is being made because everything that is done during the dictatorship is obvious and the story of the point and end of an Amnesty Law, and here all friends are being bought. This is the survival of Francoism in the judiciary, and the budgets, which are the main tool of a government to execute its public policies, are not reversing this, Minister. And it is serious; it seems to us very serious because you were talking - I have listened to it carefully - about things that seem positive to us, about equal opportunities in access to the judicial career, of Justice 2030, etc., but how is there going to be justice and democratic culture in a country where the banks overflow with murdered people, Minister? How is there going to be a democratic culture in a country where our grandparents are still silent because we can't talk about torture or franchising since no one goes through a courthouse? It's starting the house on the roof, and we think it's important that you take a step forward in investigating the crimes of Francoism. I'm done. Villarejo and Oñate wrote a book about Francoism in the Judicial Power, and in their epilogue they put a stone phrase - I have had to read a couple of times the epilogue - which says: Francoism and its authoritarian and anti-democratic foundations continue to be present in the Spanish Judicial Power. This is very serious, and this is not just a question of ideological discourse, it is the survival of the dictatorship in one of the most important powers of the state, which must guarantee not only equality of opportunity, as you said, but justice in all its meanings. Historical memory cannot be a cosmetic issue in the Spanish State and in Spain, historical memory has to focus on the repeal of the Amnesty Law of 1977, minister, because it is a plug, because it prevents investigating Francoism crimes against the majority of international human rights treaties that Spain has also signed. Spain signed both the Amnesty Act of 1977 and the European Covenant on Civil and Political Rights. And they're contradictory, because if you sign a European Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, which tells you that crimes against humanity have to be investigated, you can't set an amnesty law that plugs all these investigations. Repeal the Amnesty Act, or amend. This was signed today in an article in ElDiario.es don Jacinto Lara and don Manuel Ollé, two of the tireless representatives of the struggle for historical memory in Spain. The only real possibility of talking about historical memory is to amend the Amnesty Act of 1977, Minister, if not everything else is going to be cosmetic, and cosmetics in terms of historical memory does not solve anything; it does not solve us when the children of the judges who signed tortures of death continue to be present with power and being protagonists of the daily life of the Spanish State. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u51	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Assens Llodrà has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in common.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u52	President, ladies and gentlemen, a preview. Let me begin by expressing our solidarity with the strikers of Cadiz. [[Applauds]] Labor rights are not gifts fallen from heaven, they are the result of the struggle against the abuses of the employer, such as the struggles that have occurred in Cadiz, in Vizcaya or in Alicante. That's why they don't need tanks; they need decent work. We did not see the tanks in Núñez de Balboa or in Chueca with the neo-Nazi demonstrations. Will we see them this Saturday at the pro-Ley gag demonstration? Minister Marlaska, remove the tanks from the streets of Cadiz; you can always return them to the Minister of Defense. [[Applauds]] On budgets, yesterday in Catalonia and this week in this Congress - I have said it on other occasions - when progressive forces and national forces are understood, Spain, Catalonia, its peoples, advance in rights and justice. It's always been that way, and it's gonna be that way again now. And that is not going to break independent fronts - that is the framework of the right-wings - but it is going to go from broad fronts of progress to overcome the paradigm of the budgets of unemployment, of the cuts of the People's Party. With the People's Party there was that, wage devaluation, precariousness, corruption, democratic degradation, dismissals, mass evictions. We now have a social shield with all the limitations we want, but it has served to protect millions, to shield the public health system, to modernize the justice system. Minister, congratulations on your work. I believe that these budgets, like the previous ones, set a course that allows us to address the major challenges, the major endemic problems that drag the functioning of the justice system. With teleworking, with the previous appointment, with the generalization of judicial proceedings by videoconferencing, with the municipal offices of Justice, etc., a giant leap has been made to get closer to Europe. And it is also an important leap the increase in almost 12% of the resources for Justice in games like that of free justice, that you as judge and I as a lawyer who was on duty know how important it is, as is the democratization of access to the judiciary. Minister, do you know what the X-ray of last year's judicial promotion of 2020 is? Ninety-nine per cent of judges were assisted by their parents and only five per cent received scholarships. That is the meritocracy that defends the right. The meritocracy we defend is that a taxi driver's daughter or a hairdresser can be a judge, as you were, and that's not the exception. That is why it is important - we welcome it - that there be two million euros in scholarships, so that their case is not an exception, because the meritocracy that defends the right is a lie. Still the neighborhood where one was born is important and can weigh more than the effort each one makes, and if not to be told to people like GloriaSantiago, who could not be a judge - she is now a deputy - in Balearic Islands because she had to quit her studies and get to work because she came from a humble family. That is therefore a giant step and others have been taken, but many reforms remain to be made. For example, that of the law to shield the freedom of expression that we present. It is an anomaly that Spain is still the only country to send two puppeteers to jail, as it happened four years ago, or to have one rapper in jail and another in Belgium protected by European justice, as it is now. That is why this law must be passed, but as long as that does not happen, pardons must be granted to rappers, such as those we ask. It is very well the pardon to Juana Rivas - we ask - but we believe that the one of Hasel and the one of Valtònic must also be able to be granted. We know that this is not just up to you, it is up to the courts, but that is a democratic anomaly that needs to be corrected. There are other anomalies that depend on whether or not that law is passed, such as the one that allowed a tweeter to be prosecuted for making jokes about a Franco criminal like Carrero Blanco; that is a democratic anomaly. Another democratic anomaly is that there are churches in Spain - even though there are ten of the 23,000 - where Masses are made in honor of Franco, but it is still more anomaly, it is even more shame, Mr. Casado, that you are at one of those Masses. That is why we say to him - we reiterate again - that the worthy would be to resign. Can you imagine that this would have happened in Europe? Did Mrs Merkel do the same with Hitler? Did Mr. Draghi do the same with Mussolini? Mr. Casado said in his day that that of democratic memory to give rights to the victims was to reopen wounds from the past. Do you know, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, what it's like to re-open wounds from the past? May Mrs Ayuso say that fascism is the right side of history, that you govern with the support of the nostalgics of Francoism or that you participate in acts of exaltation or advocacy of criminals, of the crimes that suffered those who fought so that you can be here today. And finally, to the spokesman for Citizens, Mr. Díaz, you speak of the government partners and say they are a gang of criminals. Do you know who the courts and the police have called a criminal organization? To his members of the People's Party. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u53	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Ortega Smith-Molina has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u54	Thank you very much, Mr President. Madam Minister, you, in these General State Budgets for the next financial year 2022, boast that you have had an increase of approximately 12% for the Ministry of Justice. But they don't cheat on anyone anymore. They don't cheat on anyone because the same thing happens year after year. We have seen it with the governments of the People's Party, we have seen it with the governments of the Socialist Party: more and less expenditure, less and less results. Minister, last year I told your fellow Minister of Justice, Mr Campos, the minister of pardons to the coup: it is not a question of spending more, it is a question of knowing how to spend on what is necessary to have good results. You've given data. I'll give you data too. Data that reflect, as X-ray, the reality of justice in Spain. And it does not say VOX - it is not a thing of the fairies, no -, says the last report, adopted in July, of the General Council of the Judiciary and some other report that I will quote you. In Spain, the number of cases pending in the four jurisdictions has increased to 11.3%; the number of cases pending in the four jurisdictions has increased to 29.60 %. On the other hand, 2.40 % of the cases actually resolved have fallen. And if we talk about the length of time in the resolution of cases, we are going to the last report of the CEPEJ, of the European Commission for the Efficiency of Justice. For example, it takes an average of 201 days for a civil trial in the European Union to resolve a case; in Spain, 361 days, almost a year! And if we talk about a contentious-administrative matter in the first instance, it takes the European Union an average of 241 days; in Spain, 330. That's the data, Minister. But we're going to give you more data. Places of judges and judges who are being replaced by non-custodial staff, 14.7 per cent. Legal posts of the Administration of Justice that are being replaced by non-incumbent staff, 21 %. We are talking about the rate of the number of judges per 100 000 inhabitants, a figure that is usually fairly rapid to identify: the European Union, 17.7%; Spain, up to 11.9%. This I didn't do VOX, says CPEJ's last report. These General State Budgets for 2022 speak, more or less, of some 200 places of judges and magistrates. That same report of the General Council of the Judiciary, Minister, tells you and your Government that at least 380 places of judges and magistrates are needed - attention - and 129 places for judges of the higher courts of justice and provincial hearings. Where do you go with 200 if it takes about 500? And if we talk about infrastructure, the list is endless. We still claim and await the City of Justice for Valladolid or Ceuta, or those social courts for Badajoz. In conclusion, Minister, it is not a question of spending more, it is a question of spending better, because the more you spend, the less the efficiency of justice. And this which I have mentioned, this data to which I have referred, this X-ray, although very serious, Minister, is not the most serious. The most serious thing is that it follows the permanent harassment of the independence of justice, the politicization of the high courts of justice. Not only do we have to suffer a slow justice, without means and badly paid, is we have to endure an increasingly less independent justice, increasingly subject to the dictates of the political parties, that shameful pact - one more since the adoption of the Constitution and you amended the Organic Law of the Judiciary - between then mounts both the PSOE and the PP, the PP and the PSOE, and their respective partners, to get their hands on and put their friends in the Constitutional Court. [[applause]] Why would it be? Because they do not want the Constitutional Court to continue to give justice, the rule of law, the Spaniards and VOX's unconstitutionality appeals, which say that their state of alarm is fraudulent, ; because they do not want, and that is why they come to the pact to put their friends in the Court of Auditors, that this Court of Auditors allows bail to their coup partners to be paid by Catalans with their taxes. [[applause]] Why do they come to an agreement for the Ombudsman? To remain the best defender of the governments, so much mounts, of the PP and the PSOE. And the Spaniards, once again, ask themselves: and what will happen to the General Council of the Judiciary? The same; you will come to a covenant, you will divide the armchairs, and so you have all the pieces perfectly controlled. This is not new, Minister, this is what we have been living since 1981: the springs of politicians brought into justice; a poor justice, a slow justice, a justice without resources and a justice also controlled by the parties. And someone will wonder, and all this why? Well, look, it's very easy, so that when they investigate the EREs of corruption in Andalusia of the PSOE or when they investigate the Gürtel of the PP they have judges who eventually save them. So that when they investigate the coups of their members of Squerra Republicana they have domesticated judges who do not condemn them. To end, Mr President, when they investigate the illegal financing of Podemos, who run out and get very nervous the communists, together with the Secretary of State of the FARC, forgive me, of the globalist, communist and internationalist 2030 Agenda, saying that the blame lies with the judges, the military and the police because they conspire against them. [[applause]] I conclude, Mr President, this justice, this design of justice without means and politicized is one of the first state policies that we will change, sooner rather than later, when we arrive at the government of the nation. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u55	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, Mr Aranda Vargas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u56	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Santamaría, I don't know how you dress, whether by your feet, your head, your right hand or your left hand, because since the 18th century these things don't worry me. But do you know who did go home? Minister of Justice AlbertoRuiz-Gallardón, that did go home for trying to impose an abortion reform on the brave, so, lessons of dialogue, the just. [[applause]] Thank you, Minister, for your presentation of these accounts of a Ministry of State Justice, but not for the sense that we each have of the State, which is obviously different, but for the ability to reach agreements, to arrive at legislative reforms in this House, in this Ministry; reforms and agreements. It is true that not here, not in these General Budgets of the State, because those who claim to embrace Spain do not give their hand to those who need it most right now, to the Spaniards who need it most. Not in these budgets, you are the Spain of the No, this right-wing amalgam that says no to everything, but neither to agreements for the General Council of the General Power. Yes, don't tell me no, Mr. Santamaría, I have to repeat it again because it's been almost 1100 days without reform, three years. There is no democratic alternative to the normal turn of parliamentary action, that is, there are parties that support the Government, opposition parties and a third element that is called a sense of state. Why? To agree, to comply with the Constitution, with a high eye, with generosity, with responsibility. They say that common sense is the least common of senses, but the sense of state is the least common of their senses. You are now in the opposition; the PSOE was at its time in the opposition and was up to it when it came to being in the opposition, but you croak, go to the corner, close your eyes, cover your ears and do as if reality existed, and reality does exist. The reality is called to push them to the right and they lack courage to assume their role of opposition, a role that is not only to say that not everything the government says, it is not a role to do the opposite, that you already do it well, it is also a role to offer alternatives, to be loyal, and you, in your case, neither one thing nor the other, nor alternative or loyalty. The political height is measured - we have sometimes commented on it - by what is done in the Government and by how one dignifies the opposition, that is also the height of sight. These Justice budgets, as are those of the entire Government, are budgets for economic recovery. Budgets that were designed in Justice with three phases, which we have commented on many times, with three pillars. First, 2030 structure, dialogue and co-governance. Secondly, the three efficiency laws: procedural, organisational and digital and, thirdly, the European funds. And now the figures, which they know, cannot be defeated: 11.5 % increase in the budget, 235 million euros compared to last year's increase and 210 million euros in European funds; they are unappealable. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to tell you one thing so that you can be clear: the government is complying. Why do you do it? It is because, even with COVID, with low parliamentary activity, we have made fourteen laws in the Committee on Justice, as you know. It fulfills because it made a COVID Plan, introduced itself and carried it out. It fulfills because it has developed the 2030 Plan, and by 2022 we will already have the law of efficiency among us. It fulfils because it has made a policy of consultation with all the autonomous communities, including its own, even if it says not with the head, with all. It fulfills because we made a commitment to you from a hundred judges in three years and you're already at seventy. You'll tell me you don't like the Spanish calendar, but it's already seventy, with which we comply. We also meet the 120 % replacement rate and the offer of employment, more than two hundred places for judges and prosecutors. To make it clear, in three words: the Government is fulfilling, fulfilling and fulfilling. It is true that it is difficult for some to follow the pace of this Government and to settle in hooliganism. Some make politicians when they were lawyers and lawyers when they are politicians but, in the background, what bothers you is that we are complying with the established. Look, I'm finishing up because what I have to tell you is very said. The news is not so much that there is a block of progress, that there is, a block that is consolidated, a block that is going to support these accounts. The news is that a block of retreat is consolidated, a block that is now three, can soon be two, and that you will see the one disputed, as soon as you engage in it. Ladies and gentlemen, I know that you do not vote for the budget out of responsibility or out of loyalty, and I understand that there is no party for the Franco Foundation, nor will you vote for it by mistake. So, thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u57	Thank you. Section 14, Ministry of Defence We continue with the debate in Section 14, For the section presentation, I have the floor on behalf of the Government, the Minister of Defence. [[Ministry of Defence]] [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u58	Thank you, President. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. I should like to explain the content of the draft State General Budgets Act for the year 2022 with regard to section 14, which corresponds to the Ministry of Defence. I would like to begin by paying a well-deserved tribute to the members of the Armed Forces, who daily perform generous, discreet, silent and very effective work, which we must highlight in this House; a work resulting from a very high level of capacity, preparedness and availability, which makes credible deterrence against threats to our spaces of sovereignty and our interests, both in national and international settings. At the same time, capacities to deal with emergency situations and crises of an unpredictable nature are made available to society. It has been the case of operations and missions carried out to combat COVID-19, to alleviate the effects of the Filomena storm, to quell large fires, the successful evacuation process of Spanish citizens and collaborators from Afghanistan or the work that is now being done in connection with the eruption of the La Palma volcano. From here we want to send all our affection and support to the citizens of the island. In all of them, the Armed Forces have adapted their capabilities to the needs of each emergency, and have maintained their action as long as necessary. This has been possible thanks to the generous effort of the men and women of the Armed Forces, a work recognized and valued by Spanish society. Ladies and gentlemen, the budgets in Section 14 I am presenting are realistic and in line with the current budgetary framework, integrating the appropriations necessary to meet the requirements arising from the objectives set out for defence policies in the National Defence Directive and the 2020 Defence Policy Directive. Budgets that, first, guarantee the operational capacity of the Armed Forces; second, continue the process of modernizing the capabilities of the Armed Forces and, third, ensure the fulfilment of Spain's obligations as a responsible nation, solidarity and commitment to international security and peace. These are budgets that continue to place their focus on the men and women of the Armed Forces, consolidating the pay improvement made this year. The budget for Section 14 amounts to EUR 10 155.3 million, an increase of 7.9%, and EUR 743 million over 2021. It is an increase that is also consolidated in the autonomous bodies under the Ministry of Defence, such as the National Institute of Aerospace Technique, INTA, and the National Intelligence Centre, which has increased its resources by 7.5 per cent. Focusing already on the main chapters of the defence budget, it should be noted that the appropriations allocated to Chapter 1 amount to EUR 5061.8 million, representing 49.81% of the department's total budget; these appropriations are increased by EUR 133.7 million, 2.71% compared to the 2021 budget. This, together with the increase in the replacement rate from 110 to 120 %, will allow for the continuation of the personnel planning and civilian reinforcement policy of the Ministry of Defence for the years 2020-2022. Similarly and as we have said, the forecasts in chapter 1 will make it possible to maintain the momentum of the process of adjusting the salaries of military personnel initiated in the previous year. In the field of education, training, specialization and career guidance, the department maintains its objective of meeting professional expectations with the Comprehensive Professional Development Strategy. To this end, resources increase by EUR 8.4 million, an additional 2.9% compared to 2021. In this context, the basis has been laid for the digital transformation of military education, promoting the Gnoss Project, within the Government's Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan, which will combine training paths with communication and work orientation programmes. To this end, ladies and gentlemen, there are EUR 3 million budgeted for the financial year 2020-2022. We also continue to work on improving the living conditions of military personnel, especially troops and seafarers, by increasing resources for social action projects, support for the study of children, for persons with disabilities and for the professional promotion of military personnel, as well as the establishment of children's education centres, and the Armed Forces Social Institute, which is constantly adapting to protect and maintain their proximity to members. Also - and this is important - the departure of hospital care in the Armed Forces is increased by 8.6 million euros, 5.7% more than in 2012. Military health resources are improved, implementing lessons learned in the current crisis to ensure support for society. Ladies and gentlemen, the appropriations for Chapter 2, current expenditure, amount to 909 million, representing 8.9% of the Ministry's total budget and an increase of 13.3 million. Provision is made for the services required for the routine activities of our military at bases and quarters, as well as for the supplies, communications services, cleaning and security of military personnel. Current expenditure related to environmental and energy sustainability, as well as defence diplomacy activities and those aimed at strengthening defence culture are included. This chapter 2 initially includes EUR 100 million of the provision for peacekeeping operations, which will provide a more balanced response to the current financial requirements of our units abroad. In addition, EUR 164 million will be added, which, through the planned enlargements, will allow for the completion of funding for these activities. Ladies and gentlemen, the appropriations in Chapter 4, current transfers, amount to EUR 455.5 million, representing 4.5% of the ministry's total budget, with an increase of EUR 25.6 million over 2021. They are intended to cover the financial contributions to the international security and defence agencies to which Spain is a party, as well as the operating costs of INTA and the National Intelligence Centre, as well as part of the costs of teaching and training our staff. Ladies and gentlemen, with the resources in Chapter 6, dedicated to real investment, the objective is to obtain and develop the defence capabilities necessary to confront the current strategic context and to obtain a joint, viable, balanced and sustainable force. The available appropriations amount to EUR 3647.3 million and represent 36% of the Ministry's total budget; this represents an 18% increase over the year 2021. The internal allocation of the economic envelopes of this chapter is carried out following the defence planning process, which has inspired and underpinned the considerable investment effort that has been made in recent years, after many years in which these investments had not been made. These investments include the special modernization programmes, with a budget of 2848 million, an increase that will enable us to meet the financial commitments made in previous years and the progress of new projects. These investments, in addition to providing the necessary capabilities for our Armed Forces to carry out their missions and which, in addition, are carried out with certainty, are - and I am very concerned about this - a key instrument for Spain's economic and social impulse and recovery, as they generate important economic and technological returns in the industrial fabric due to their technical and dual nature. They contribute to the growth of national GDP and are a driver of employment that will help maintain and create a significant number of jobs. I mean, like, the S80 submarine in Cartagena or the F 110 frigates in the Ferrol region. The provision for the modernization of the remaining systems and equipment, as well as logistical support for the maintenance of all systems, equipment and infrastructure, includes €573.4 million this year, an increase of €60.4 million over 2021. These items will be increased by the provision for peacekeeping operations, which provide for EUR 210 million in the initial budget, to be added to the provisions of the proposed credit extensions during the financial year. We are aware of the need to continue with the investment effort in sustenance, which drags, as I said before, a structural deficit due to the cuts suffered in previous times. I would like, ladies and gentlemen, to highlight the effort in research, development and innovation, which is fundamental to achieving the technological advantage, which in 2022 represents an investment of EUR 30.5 million. In this field we are integrated into the various European initiatives stemming from the European Defence Fund and from the Permanent Structured Cooperation, known as the Pesco. The budget of the Ministry of Defence includes appropriations from the European Union Recovery Funds, with a total of EUR 50 million earmarked to promote projects for the necessary digital transformation affecting information and communication systems, training and cybersecurity mechanisms. Ladies and gentlemen, these budgets represent a major effort and consolidate growth that aims to provide the necessary budgetary stability in order to continue to meet the objectives of defence policy in all its axes. In addition, they serve to support the action of the Armed Forces not only in purely military missions, but also in collaboration with other agencies, enhancing social policies, job creation, innovation, technological development and the projection of Spain in the world. In short, these budgets enable Spain to continue to have leadership in defence policies, both within the European Union and within NATO, feeling proud of the perception that in these two areas of the European Union and NATO have of security and defence policies. We are well aware that we must continue along the same lines begun this year, improving the salaries of the men and women of the Armed Forces. A major effort has been made this year, and that is the will we want to continue to work with. At the same time, we want to support these modernization projects because they make us have a better equipped and better prepared armed forces, but which, as I said before, are an industrial attraction for many regions that live precisely on defence industry projects. A clearly Spanish defence industry. A Spanish defence industry that we want to have projection abroad, with projects shared with Germany or France, as is the new generation plane. I'm done, ladies and gentlemen. I thank the parliamentary groups for supporting this budget, stressing once again that investing in security and defence is investing in rights, freedoms, modernity, technology and job creation. That commitment by a modern, effective armed forces, with men and women like the ones we have in them, committed, prepared and serious, is the best way to ensure a fully democratic country, with freedom, democracy and rights, but at the same time, with obligations to ensure peace and security in the world, as they do at present three thousand men and women of the contingents of the Armed Forces who are in places as far away as Lebanon, Mali or the Central African Republic, to whom they have taken advantage to pay my tribute and my testimony, as do the more than two hundred military personnel of the EMU, Earth Army and the Navy who are at present on Palma Island. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u59	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] In defence of amendments, Mr Gutiérrez Vivas has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u60	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen; good morning, minister. Of course, we always remember every day the professionals of our Armed Forces because - we remember here many times - they are the ones who have been making the callus throughout Operation Balmis and in everything that has been related to the pandemic, we saw it in Afghanistan this summer and of course we are seeing it now in La Palma. And it is always to be welcomed that we all congratulate ourselves on the great work they do, but of course, Minister, we must show them not only with words and congratulations, but we must demonstrate them with realities. When you come here and you tell us that this is a realistic budget because, what you want me to say, it sounds like a possibleist to me. And that sounds to me to conform and to conform to the little thing, which is the reality of this budget. It's a budget that settles with very little. And I believe that - as you have rightly said - the men and women of our Armed Forces do not deserve to comply with little because they do not give little, minister. They don't just give what is possible, they give everything they have, even beyond, because they are also able to give up their lives in defense of Spain's interests. Therefore, realistic budgets and positivist budgets are not worth it; as they are not worth it, Minister, you are saying that this is obviously trying to solve the problems that the People's Party Government has also left behind because of the lack of investment. But it's just that, minister, you've been ruling since 2018 already, I think there's time to do something else. [[The lady]] Look, minister, I'm going to tell you why these budgets are not good for Spain. Firstly, because they are not good for the men and women who make up our Armed Forces. They are not good because you only increase staff by 2.7% over the previous year, when already the previous year we very much criticize you for the small percentage of increase in salaries and salaries of the professionals of the Armed Forces. But it is that with a 2.7 is absolutely inefficient, last year you boast of having made a salary increase that in some cases reached 11 euros a month on the payroll; yes, Minister, in some cases, because you brought it to a complement that is not the same for all. We already asked you last year to make a linear climb, which is what the professional associations are demanding and you refused. We've done it again this time, then I'll remind you. They're bad budgets for the staff because they consolidate precariousness, consolidate soldiers and marines mileurists, minister, and you know it. We have NATO's worst paid Armed Forces, NATO's worst paid Armed Forces, and that is the reality, which the men and women of our Armed Forces know and that is the reality you also know. But it is that besides, you are not able to finish with temporality. They do not end with the temporality, the dismissals, the departures to the forty-five years of our troops and navy. You know it perfectly well, and as long as that is not resolved these budgets will be temporary and precarious budgets for all the men and women of our Armed Forces. It seems to me an exercise of cynicism, because you are trying to end the temporality in the Public Service - and it seems very correct to me - and you are not able to end the temporality of the Armed Forces. Or are they not as temporary as other officials? Are there officials of two different temporalities? And your partners, what am I going to tell you about your government partners? Minister, when you come here I understand that you are doing the exercise of thanking those who are going to support this budget, but I would like to remind you that those who are going to support this budget have tabled amendments saying that the whole section will be withdrawn, that they are political forces that do not want there to be Spanish Armed Forces, that do not want the development of our Armed Forces. He said it with his little mouth, I understand him, and I suppose the rest of the citizens will have understood it too when he says these things, but I don't think it was worth mentioning, minister. Finally, some budgets, as I have told you, on the part of bad personnel for Spain, bad for the Armed Forces, which cast an unsustainable situation in the future for the troops and the navy and unsustainable for all the scales and the jobs of the Armed Forces. Secondly, you talk about capabilities. These budgets consolidate the loss of capacities, as did the People's Party when it ruled. But it is that Mrs Casteleiro, the Secretary of State, in her appearance told us that they were not going to be able to make investments until 2028, I insist, they are not going to be able to make new investments until 2028. She said so in the budget appearance at the Defence Commission. What are we going to do about the alarming situation of the Gando F-18s? What are we going to do with the anti-submarine patrols? What are we going to do with air refueling? What are we going to do with the airgun on board? Because if we are not going to be able to do anything until 2028 we are going to lose all these capabilities, and many of them are essential capabilities to guarantee the security and sovereignty of the Spanish people, the sovereignty of the nation. Madam Minister, you are not saying anything about a multi-annual funding programme, which would probably fix this; you do not want to talk about this. These are the realities that can truly solve the grave drama of this section, the grave drama of the Ministry of Defence and our Armed Forces. Why are we going to talk about sustaining capabilities and systems, where it is becoming increasingly difficult to keep systems and capabilities operational right now, where virtually no training can even be done? Your Honor, we have tabled amendments, we have tabled a linear increase for all scales and jobs of EUR 160. You've rejected her. We want to alleviate this situation somewhat, we already know that this is not a definitive solution, but of course it is much more so than the one you are offering. But all you do is reject all these solutions in a systematic way. We tell you that and professional associations tell you that, but you don't listen to those who really think about the nation, to those who really have a sense of state in the defense of the nation. And you come here to praise those who support your budget, who are precisely those who want to destroy this state, minister. That is what seems unacceptable to me. Thank you very much, President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u61	Thank you very much, Mr Gutiérrez. Mr Gutiérrez Díaz de Otazu has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u62	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Good morning, Minister, thank you very much for your presentation of the budget. As was the case last year, we are once again faced with overall budgets, overall seen, based on an outdated and surplus macroeconomic picture, i.e. much higher than normal income expectations. No one understands that the government does not review these budgets after the growth expectations of our economy have been reduced this year to no more or less than the 9.8% with which you started at 4.6%. As far as 2022 is concerned, expectations have already been reduced from 7% to 5.5%. But budgets remain unchanged as a whole. What about Recovery, Transformation and Resilience funds? You have injected into the budgets expectations of 27 billion this year and 27 billion for the following year. This year we have received 9 billion, of which approximately 20% has been executed. You are right that the defence budget is made in accordance with this budgetary framework, but if the budget framework is overstretched the budgets of the Ministry of Defence are too. The general summary by services and chapters of the expenditure budget offers a consolidated total of 9772 million, together with what you have said, around 8% of the consolidated total of the previous budget. Regrettably, it is once again not accompanied by the reality of income expectations. Good purposes, in short, with low expectations of overall compliance. Paper endures everything, but in budgets propaganda produces frustration, deception or excessive growth of debt. Again, the General Budgets are experiencing a significant increase in the real investment section of Chapter 6 in programmes 122.A and 122.B, modernization and special programmes, once again at the expense of a considerable reduction in the other two programmes in the same section linked to the training and maintenance of weapons systems, 122.M, operating costs, and 122N, logistical support. Again, there is also a significant reduction in real investments linked to foreign operations in the 122M operational expenditure programme. It continues to rely, as you have said, on further reinforcements coming from the Contingency Fund, renouncing the objective set many years ago of moving the financing of operations to the regular budget. These budgets, in the opinion of the Group of the European People's Party, do not correspond to the commitments to maintain the current level of contribution to our operations abroad or to enhance the diplomacy of defence or to promote relations with other countries, in addition to the international projection of our defence industry, and in the European Union, our commitment to the promotion and strengthening of the Europe of Defence, in close coordination with the North Atlantic Treaty Organization. In the process of amendments - none have been accepted - we have tabled many amendments to the chapter, but four concrete ones referred to the availability by the Army and Navy headquarters of additional resources for these programmes which are deficient, the 122.M and 122.N which I have been repeating. In the last year these two programmes have been reduced by 16% and 11% respectively in this budget for 2022. As regards logistical support, this 11% is added to the 14% experienced in the previous budget. In fact, it is evident that the increase in these items is necessary because both have been increased in implementation, that is, that resources have been transferred from the Secretariat of State to Army and Navy headquarters, to JEME and Ajena, in order to be able to continue with the investment in operational costs and logistical support, but it has been after August. It is an old practice of the Ministry of Defense to centralize and then at the end of the decentralization year, producing the normal dysfunctions in the logistic support chain. Mr Gutiérrez has already referred to the proposal for a linear increase. We took him last year to the Defence Commission, the 100 euros were approved. We will take it again this year, we have put it in the amendments, but they have not been accepted. We will take it back because it is a need to balance the wage gap between the military and the rest of the staff. Before concluding, I would like to refer to a constant that has been taking place in the Chamber. Normally, when members of the Socialist Party come up to this rostrum, they usually refer to the year 2008 and then jump to the year 2012 and what happened in 2012, but from 2008 to 2012 things happened. The first thing that happened was that the Socialist Party government did not recognize the existence of a crisis, and we spent three years receiving disqualifications from pessimists, antipatriots, not to see life in colors and the like. Later, Mr. Zapatero embarked on a flight forward with his famous PlanE, asphalting several times the roundabouts, roundabouts and roundabouts of Spain, with no practical result and believing that propaganda would promote economic activity. The end result of all this was an early general election, Mr Zapatero's escape from his responsibilities and the transfer of an economic situation with the drawers of the administrations loaded with invoices, without paying, of course, as well as a lot of gentlemen of the European Union, advisers who came to question the number of officials we have in Spain, their salaries and also the pensions we enjoy in Spain. The People's Party inherited this situation and it seems to me frivolous that every time it comes up to this rostrum, the period of effort that Spanish society had to assume under the leadership of the People's Party to reverse that chaotic situation inherited from the Socialist Party - and which the citizens made clear to it in 2011 - is still contemplated, by using it as a political argument, with maximum frivolity. [[Applauds]] For all that said, Minister, and as a result of not believing that these budgets are credible - as you do not believe it - they are propagandistic and they are precious, but not credible, it is for this reason that we propose the return of the section. Thank you very much, President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u63	Thank you very much, Mr Gutiérrez. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Quevedo Iturbe has the floor. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u64	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning, everyone. Madam Minister, a previous one, you know that the Joint Group intervenes where we are concerned and not necessarily where we should, so in relation to your section I just want to say one thing: we have serious concerns in the Canary Islands about the air defence issue of the archipelago. I trust that there will be a determined intervention to make clear what your ministry has in mind on this matter, from which I am sure it does not escape its relevance. I must also use another precedent to defend all the amendments put forward by the groups that form part of the Joint Group in this section. New Canarias has already said of this draft budget that we considered it to be in the right line, but with shortcomings that needed to be resolved, and that is why we have tabled sixty-five amendments; forty-five amendments to expenditure and twenty amendments to the joint text. The intention of these amendments was to act on all the interests of each and every island in the archipelago, with the intention of improving budgets in two key directions. The first is that it is necessary to comply with the laws of the Economic and Fiscal System of the Canary Islands and its statute and, secondly, it is necessary to understand that none of the proposals made for expenditure responds to any whim. As has been the case, and after the agreement we have reached with the Socialist Party, we must say that it is very satisfactory that in the expenditure chapter all the concepts of the REF which have budgetary appropriations are actually budgeted, that it is complied with the principle of being at least on the average of investments by the communities of the common system, and it is working on culture, environment, agriculture, education and sport, employment, social services and infrastructure, a wide range of amendments worth more than EUR 100 million, which have consolidated our initial position in favour of the budget. With regard to the amendments to the joint text, there was a determining factor, and it was absolutely necessary to exempt the minimum tax of 15% of corporation tax from those activities which are incentives under the Canary Islands Economic and Fiscal System. It makes no sense for something to be encouraged to place the Canary Islands under the same conditions as the rest of the State in certain areas and then treat it equally from the point of view of corporate tax. This has been solved by a compromise that we have resolved today, and I therefore announce that this confirms New Canarias' support for the approval of these general state budgets for the year 2022. However, there are issues, which are raised as amendments, which we know do not necessarily have to be resolved through budgets, but it is absolutely imperative that they be resolved over time, and I announce that we will continue to insist on these kinds of issues. For example, an incomprehensible question if you think so, ladies and gentlemen: How is it possible that we have not yet compensated the tourism operators who were the victims of Thomas Cook's bankruptcy, as has already happened in the rest of the state? We have made an amendment in this respect, it has not been possible to resolve it now, but it has to be resolved in the future. We trust that we will find an element to understand ourselves on this issue. It makes no sense in any way, because it is clear that there is VAT in the whole of Spain and in the Canary Islands the IGIC, and that must be expressly envisaged, because, if not, simply, it cannot compensate operators who are victims of this crisis. We also have to say that the airport charges at the Canary Islands airports must be subsidised. The question of connectivity, and even more so with the price of tourism after the pandemic in the Canary Islands, is an essential element, which conditions the development of the Canary Islands. We are confident that this issue can also be addressed in the immediate future in order to make the Canary Islands competitive, like the rest of the state. No one's pretending things other than that. One question must be made clear: Palma is already considered, as you can imagine, in a very unique way in the amendments that are already adopted. There are still outstanding issues. We know that there is essentially a commitment on the part of the President of the Government of Spain and, of course, the Government of the Canary Islands and local governments to act in the face of this catastrophe until the previous situation on the island of La Palma is completely restored. The question of whether agrarian insurance or the Insurance Compensation Consortium recognizes that a volcanic eruption must be a matter that forms part of the criteria for insurance compensation is imperative, because these kinds of natural disasters were not contemplated and that is a gigantic damage added to what you already have for the misfortune that you all know. I have to say that La Palma is already considering a set of initiatives, of which we are very pleased, but this issue must continue to be considered. We know that we are talking about extendable credits, which will operate according to needs. This is one of the needs and it is our duty to insist on it. With regard to the amendments that have been vetoed, there is one in relation to the Special Area of the Canary Islands in which we must insist again. All right, it was not the appropriate budget to resolve this, but how is it possible that triangular trade, which is one of the essences of the activity of the Special Area of the Canary Islands, has been authorized by its governing council for fifteen years and now the Directorate General of Taxes considers this type of activity not to be permissible? That is, this is the death of the Canary Special Zone. It seems that someone has re-examined things and has come to tell us that what has been being used for fifteen years is not now. This needs to be resolved, because we are talking about a vital economic diversification tool for the interests of the Canary Islands. I therefore welcome the way in which the budgets for the Canary Islands have remained, knowing that there are issues that need to be improved and we will have time for that because not everything is the budgetary framework. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u65	Thank you very much, Mr Quevedo. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Delgado Ramos has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-In Comú Podemos-Galicia in common.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u66	Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Deposit on the atrium of the rostrum a helmet]] Today I brought here the helmet of a worker who delivered to me the other day a worker of the metal industry of Cadiz. I bring it as a sign of support and to defend the just demands of more than 20,000 metal workers in the province of Cadiz, who have been on an indefinite strike for eight days, fighting for their children's bread and for a future, and also in defense of a province that can no longer because it has been suffering the progressive dismantling of the industry for more than forty years, which has resulted in unemployment, precariousness, social exclusion and forced emigration of our young people. [[applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, no one who struggles to fill the refrigerator in his house is a criminal, but rather the opposite. [[Applauds]] Precisely, if today all the citizens of this country enjoy a state of social law - I repeat, social - it is because our parents, our mothers and our grandparents also went out on the street. That is why workers today have social rights, that is why workers have labour rights and social justice, precisely rights that some are committed to not respecting. And that's why Cádiz's metal workers strike, to have decent, decent working conditions, in front of a employer who only wants more and more and more at the expense of the workers' pain and fatigue. When a father or mother has to defend their job and their family, they don't stop a tank or two or three, because the family and the job are the first. [[Applauds]] That's why in Cadiz people have come out on the street: to defend a decent job, a decent future, and I bring here this symbol, a helmet, which represents the working people, the worker, the decent people, the people who get up early and the people who struggle not to lose labor rights. [[Holds the helmet with both hands]] Ladies and gentlemen, without entrepreneurs there is no work, but without workers there are no entrepreneurs. Therefore, from here it is necessary to agree, both workers and entrepreneurs, but especially to ask the employer to look for the interest of the majority, and not for the interest of a single privileged part; for the interest of the majority of the Gadites and the Gadites. Entering the Defence Section, Mrs Robles, there are two issues in particular, because we cannot make a thorough analysis of defence budgets; there is one part that I like and another that I do not, and I will refer to both. The party I like is chapter 6, real investments, which this year has risen in the budget to 557 million, which means an increase and a significant step in the sustainability of employment. We are aware that the defence industry is moving more than 4 billion and that only in Andalusia does it generate 25,000 jobs, especially in Cadiz, whose complicated situation we have talked about right now, and every effort is important. For example, in Puerto Real the Maritime Action Ship will be built, in Seville the A330, the helicopter H135, etc., which also means creating jobs, among other things. And there's one question I don't like, and you know it. I know it is not easy, because, of course, it is complicated to reverse the data that the People's Party has left us to do everything we would like to do, but, Minister, the words of patriotism are heard more to others. That is to say, with regard to the People's Party, which is filled with its mouth, for example, speaking of the homeland, of the people, of men and women, in the PP stage, not a cent was raised to the military, not a cent. Is that what the military wants? Of course, now they come with the amendments, they want to raise the budget, they want to do a lot of things! We, Minister, carry in our DNA, in that of the party, in that of the government of progressive coalition and of the left, the defense of workers, and this is important. I know that in the previous budgets an effort was made and the salary was raised to the military, who are milleurists, that is, it is not that I say it because they charge a lot, and therefore we have to make an effort, because that, if we do not do it, we, who look at the workers, the tin patriots will not do it; we have to do it ourselves. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u67	Thank you, Mr. Delgado. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Mestre Barea has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u68	Good morning, everyone. Thank you, Minister, for accompanying us in these complaints, continuing year after year, on the subject of the budgets of the Ministry of Defence. The proposal he makes for the year 2022 of approximately 10 billion is a clear example of what Unamuno called unwillingness. We are concerned about having a budget that barely accounts for 1% of GDP, away from commitments to NATO, at a key moment, with the Alliance crisis following the defeat of Afghanistan and the strategic turn of the United States towards Asia. Meanwhile, Morocco, our southern neighbour, which is planning oil explorations in the waters of the Canary Islands, has a defence budget of 15.5 billion, of which 11,000 are to buy new weapons. We, according to the Secretary of State, as has been said before, will not be able to carry out any new modernization programmes until 2028. But, above all, we are concerned about this budget as a symptom of the weakness and lack of strength of the idea of Spain. [[Applauds]] It is clear in Spain today that there is a lack of a national project, which is highlighted in these budgets, whose essential motivation is their electoral opportunism, the miserable acceptance of political blackmail and never the good of all Spaniards. The budget allocated to the Ministry of Defence, which, as we have said, barely reaches 1% of GDP, falls under two main headings: staff and special modernisation programmes. Specifically, the staff line, as the Minister has also pointed out, covers approximately 50 to 55 % of the budget, while the special programmes cover 25 %. In sum, approximately 80% of the budget is tied to fixed expenditure, which is inescapable. As far as personnel are concerned, what this pandemic has shown is that many politicians are left and many doctors and military personnel are missing. [[Applauds]] The departure of staff is far from the aspirations of professional military associations, which claim from the street the dignity of their salaries, which since December last year have grown only between 40 and 113 euros. You start your speech with extraordinary praises to the Armed Forces, and that's fine, and you repeat them over and over again, but you read chapter 1 of the budgets and you realize that that's blah, blah, blah. The departure of staff, as we have said, is far from the aspirations. From the Defence Commission and on the proposal of my parliamentary group, a non-legislative proposal was adopted calling on the Government to equalize the salaries of the military with other State Security Forces and Bodies, a proposal which has not received any response from the Government. Also the so-called permanent investments aimed at maintaining the necessary levels of supply for spare parts, fuels, regular maintenance of ships and aircraft and systems are insufficient, and this is the true Achilles heel of the operation of our Armed Forces, as it obliges us to prioritize the training and enlistment of the units designated to carry out the operations, while others have to lag behind, and this has also been happening in recent years. In fact, according to the ministry itself, expenditure items for the correct maintenance of the systems barely reach 55%, when the ideal would be a limit of 70%. As paradigmatic victims of the provision for the maintenance of weapons and equipment, we see in the 122N programme that aircraft maintenance has been reduced by 78% and submarine maintenance by 60%. And if we speak now of capabilities, the most peremptory of our armies, to highlight in the case of the Navy the program of escorts 4E, the submarine weapon reduced to the minimum expression and the onboard aviation, without substitute still for the carrier. In the Air Force the P3 maritime patrol aircraft have no relief and, therefore, Spain must abandon the aerial component of Operation Atalanta, which is fighting piracy in the Indian. They are supposed to be replaced by C295 maritime surveillance aircraft, but this does not appear in the budget either. As a result, this anti-submarine capability of the Air Force is lost. On the other hand, there is the replacement of the fleet F18, which already suffers from obsolescence, especially the planes destined in the Canary Islands, as has already been pointed out, bought second hand and seized to its inexorable decrease over the next two years, and the other F18 squadrons will be gradually going down from 2025. Also, the first devices produced by the FCAS programme would not be in service until 2040. And in this situation, the Air Force is very committed to defending our airspace and supporting international deployments at the same time. Finally, the Earth Army continues to assist the 8x8 shipwrecks. Last year, 245 million were budgeted, but only 88 million are expected to be implemented, and for this year, which is the one planned for production, only 31 million are shown in the budgets. The so-called budgets for the fairest recovery in history, with GDP growth, according to Brussels, of 4.7%, in contrast to 6.5% of the government, consolidate an extraordinary structural imbalance, which obscures the financial horizon, compromising the future of the Armed Forces and thereby the national defence and security of the Spaniards. Defence is an aspect always absent from any speech, appearance or perorata of the President of the Government, but for any responsible Government the policy of security and defence is essential and, given the geostrategic situation of Spain, its conceptual and practical absence is pure suicide. I conclude by saying that you, Minister, always put in the lecture the theme of the sense of state, which seems very good to me, but you go up here and praise and thank political groups that go against the Armed Forces and the State for their support of the budgets. Very ugly. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u69	Thank you very much, Master. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, Mrs Nasarre Oliva has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u70	Thank you, Vice President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in the Socialist Parliamentary Group we want to put in value and claim our Armed Forces, our Defence, which works day by day with vocation and values to achieve the well-being and security of all Spaniards; of all, not just those of the Pulserites. [[Mr. Vice-President, Mr. Rodríguez Gómez de Celis, took the Chair.]] At present, section 14 of the budget is of greater importance because of the present time, in a complex, volatile and uncertain global context, which we must face with balanced, modern and sustainable capacities in the field of global security. We have many examples of thanks, at international level, such as evacuation in Afghanistan, or local, such as assistance in the Canary Islands, the pandemic, Filomena or in multiple emergencies. A global security, integral, human, from a strong vocation of public service. For this reason, a real recognition is needed not of words, but of facts, of support, shaping and executing good budgets according to the needs of our Armed Forces, maintaining their operationality, with a firm commitment to the integral investment in both material and personnel. The budgets of this year 2022 exceed the 10 billion euros, continuing the path of growth that began and today continues the government of Pedro Sánchez - let us hope to continue for many years -, exceeding 1% of the GDP in defense, gradually climbing the inactions of the right so many years, being aware that we have to continue to travel on this path of increase and continuous improvement with effort, in order to adapt to the countries of our environment, NATO. A balanced and, above all, realistic draft section 14 - or, if you prefer, rigorously - both in terms of staff and the rest of the items, when with the previous PP governments the staff costs were almost the entire budget, if not everything. The Socialist Party has broken this trend of cutbacks in all respects, ladies and gentlemen, but also in defence. And yes, Mr. Gutierrez, we claim from this rostrum our effort. The governments of the People's Party were touched by a certain moment and the progressive government or the socialist government was touched by another different moment. And we do not complain that a global pandemic has hit us, on the contrary, our parliamentary group, the Progressive Government and all the groups that are going to support these budgets work hard, because these budgets are the budgets of recovery. [[applause]] You are very patriotism, but of saloon; well, not now, now it is patriotism of mass of the deceased, always looking to the past. Ladies and gentlemen, we don't have time. We have to look forward, to the future, we have many challenges in this complex world. If we focus on concrete data, section 14 highlights Chapter 2, which increases the budget for the maintenance of force; Chapter 6, real investments, in which the acquisition of material increases by 19 %, essential for the development of the special modernization programmes and for the defence industry, of vital importance in many ways: in employment, technology, innovation; Chapter 7 increases by 20,3 %, in response to investment needs in INTA and CNI. During this budgetary debate, I have heard unreal statements on the subject of staff, which need to be clarified. Firstly, the troop replacement rate in 2022 has risen to 120 % and the increase of 110% in 2021 must be remembered and added. Last year the continuous improvement in the salaries of Ministry of Defence staff began. It is true that they will always be insufficient, but the fact that they were frozen since 2005 helps to empathize with the efforts of the Ministry of Defence which, since the arrival of the Government of the Socialist Party, with the leadership of Pedro Sánchez, allows budget to improve all salaries, jobs and especially from the perspective of equality, with improvements in conciliation and greater social welfare of civilian and military personnel, because we care with conviction. Ladies and gentlemen, this budget, in its section 14, guarantees the operationality of our Armed Forces, responding to the current needs to meet the commitment and objective of peace, security and well-being for all, contributing to the development of technology and innovation and an impetus to the important Spanish defence industry, creating employment and progress throughout the national territory. They support these budgets of recovery in every sense, historical budgets of social justice and also with a comprehensive project of country, with social cohesion, with well-being, with sustainability, courageous, with an important stake in the strategy of decentralization, involving all - to all - the territories, not only the big cities, but betting on Monte la Reina, in Zamora, in Huesca, entering the national defense. [[applause]] They are and will be, like so many other territories, symbols of cohesion in national defence. As Our Armed Forces, guarantors of rights and freedoms and today also of equality in territories, projecting in the world in accordance with national and international commitments to the European Union, to the Atlantic Alliance and to the United Nations. In short, they are progressive budgets, realistic, with rigour, of the future, for an Armed Forces at the international, national and local avant-garde, fulfilling commitments and missions as always, with a vocation of public service. Let us remember that in order to have social justice we need everyone's well-being and security. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u71	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Section 15, Ministry of Finance and Civil Service, 10, Centralized recruitment, and 38, Territorial Entity Financing System We move on to the discussion of section 15, Minister of Finance and Public Service; section 10, centralized recruitment; and section 38, funding systems for territorial entities. For the presentation of the sections, I have the floor on behalf of the Government, the Minister of Finance and Public Service.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u72	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Indeed, I appear on this occasion to defend sections 10, 15 and 38 of the general budgets and, as the President said, to address centralised recruitment, the headings for the Ministry of Finance and Public Service and, finally, the system of territorial financing. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to stress the need for this country to have public accounts for the coming year to consolidate economic recovery, so that it can reach all people, all sectors and all territories. This task is essential for many reasons. Firstly, by offering stability and confidence to the country, to Spanish society, which has gone so badly and we are still ending this pandemic and the corresponding recovery of an economic crisis that it had associated. Secondly, because the budget opens up a door to hope and a door to the future, especially for young people, so that they can find solutions to their main problems. Thirdly, because it guarantees security and certainty for the elderly, with revalued pensions and more resources than ever before for care for dependency and care. Ladies and gentlemen, because it pays attention to science policies, to emptied Spain, to culture, or incorporates in all parts an economic injection of the European Recovery Mechanism which aims to transform the productive model into a post-COVID world in areas such as ecological transition, digitalisation or equality. Ladies and gentlemen, of course, the budget has as its priority the revitalization of the welfare state, the public services and the safety net that guarantee rights and allow us to be equal in the social contract that binds us all. That, ladies and gentlemen, is all the more reason for us, regardless of the way in which amendments are being carried out throughout this process, to have a high-level view and, therefore, to be aware of the responsibility we have so that next year these public accounts can help and contribute to the progress of all administrations. By entering fully into the subject of debate, these sections focus on three fundamental objectives: the first is to promote the modernisation of public administrations, strengthening social legitimacy and advancing the efficiency of public policies, but also in transparency and accountability. Linked to this point, secondly, we want to take advantage of the opportunity of the funds of the Recovery and Resilience Mechanism to enhance the role of the public sector as a driving force for the dynamism of both employment and the economy, just by setting an example from administrations in the digital and ecological transition, but also in progress on gender equality. Thirdly, we want to promote the acquisition of talent in the public sector, especially in areas that are going to be definitive for the coming years, making progress in continuing training and in the professional development of public employees, which are the heart of the welfare state. Your ladies and gentlemen have at your disposal all the documentation and, therefore, I will only focus on some elements that I believe deserve to be underlined or highlighted. The total expenditure budget of our Ministry of Finance and Public Service, excluding the financing of autonomous communities and local entities, amounts to EUR 3341 million, an overall increase of 10.6%. In concrete terms, Chapter 1 includes items intended to increase the remuneration of public employees, which is carried out in a forecast of 2%, and also provides for the incorporation of new posts from the public offer of employment, namely 264 officials from the 2019 and 2020 offers which have already completed the selective processes and whose incorporation we expect to be made over the next year. Similarly, the reinforcement of the General Secretariat of European Funds and General Intervention in relation to the Recovery and Resilience Mechanism or, in other words, reinforcements that are motivated by the accompanying that we have to do for the deployment of all the recovery funds: 57 new posts for the IGAE and 85, as I say, for the recovery funds. As regards Chapter 2, current expenditure on goods and services, there is a 10% increase, reaching 89 million, motivated by actions related to the updating of the prices of cleaning services, also with security and telecommunications; items that are also intensified to cover corporate videoconferencing, which, as you know, have been installed in the public administration; probably to continue to intensify over the coming years. I would also like to point out the heading for the AIReF, both with regard to the tax monitoring rate, an element that guarantees its independence, which is increased by 1.21 million, and also in the resources we call the spending review, public expenditure review work, which amounts to almost 1 million euros. If you remember, the Council of Ministers itself has instructed the AIReF to carry out a third phase in the review of public expenditure, an element that must enable us to make further progress in efficiency and which is also committed to Brussels. The current transfers chapter as a whole is decreasing by EUR 4.6 million. In the part of external transfers, the departure of RTVE has logically been adapted, it has decreased, after the celebration of the Olympic Games, while there is no variation in the transfers to the consortia of Toledo, Cuenca, Santiago de Compostela and the Special Area Canaria. Credits for State property liability, which are provided with EUR 500 million, are also maintained invariably, basically to cover the processes resulting from the judgements relating to the health cent. For its part, the current internal transfers, that is, the State Mobile Park, the Institute of Fiscal Studies, the Tax Agency, the National Institute of Public Administration and the Transparency and Good Government Council, all of these items amount to 1140 million, an increase close to 28 million euros. The priority objective of the increase is to meet the operating costs of the staff of the Tax Agency, which is reinforced so that it can also further intensify the tasks of combating tax fraud. The chapter on real investments, Chapter 6, increases 12 million, up to 115.7, to meet obligations in relation to the reference value of real estate, which will be assumed by the Directorate-General for Disaster Management, and to renew computer equipment, cybersecurity project, interoperability or development of new applications in the field of management of European funds, as well as new investments in the public sector procurement platform. I would also like to point out the computer developments related to the Transparency and Open Government Portal to make accountability faster and an increasingly widespread practice. With regard to funding for territorial administrations, the budget is provided with €18 billion for the autonomous communities fund and another €3,000 for local authorities. They know that these funds currently have five compartments and that, compared to 2021, the total allocation is diminished due to the decrease in the reference of the deficit of autonomous communities for the year 2022 and that of the amount foreseen for the European Union React compartment, which, as you will recall, had a total of 12 billion, were distributed 10 000 in the year 2021 and around 2000 next year, hence the fall by this asymmetry in the distribution that occurs under this heading. On the other hand, the local entity fund is increased by $2 billion to cover needs estimated by the application of the Provider Payment Mechanism, which is regulated in these budgets for municipalities with special financial difficulties. To conclude this section, I would also like to highlight the actions of Service 50, which are in line with the Recovery Mechanism and which we have grouped under a single heading to make them more transparent and more visible. Specifically, there are 11 million in the digital transformation and modernization programme of the AGE, to modernize the Central Staff Register, to also improve the sensitivity, as it said, in relation to the Transparency Portal and to develop the Open Government, to launch a portal own for the Office of Conflicts of Interest, for the INAP to advance in automation and decentralization of selective processes and, finally, for Muface to also advance in administrative simplification with the implementation of the digital clinical history or the part of the electronic low. For its part, the Administration's transformation programme includes EUR 617 000 for the development of an information system that allows the Commission to monitor the fulfilment of milestones and objectives, also the creation of web portals that centralise information and improve the transparency of attendance and participation in the calls of individual entities, as well as the development of training activities to reach around 3000 employees of the public administration. The Digital Transformation and Modernisation of Territorial Entities Programme will carry out capital transfers of 239 million. In short, they are all items aimed at improving the efficiency of the public sector. Then, ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to comment that the centralised recruitment budget has an action that is more efficient, saving as a result of the aggregation of demand and the reduction of administrative burden. Just by giving them some data, so that they can see the impact that this policy is having, I will tell you that the average savings, for example, generated in the current telecommunications service contract is 37 million euros per year in line with greater efficiency. Similarly, the centralised cleaning contract over the next three years will also produce savings of EUR 15.8 million. The objective of next year is to continue this centralized procurement, and 334 million are allocated for contracts in postal communications and couriers, cleaning, telecommunications and security. We also foresee a provision of 20 million for the centralised purchase of non-emission vehicles, a purchase that complements that already made in the year 2021 in the amount of 70 million, but that, due to the shortage of semiconductors - one of the components that are essential in this manufacture of electric vehicles - there has been a delay in delivery, so that an item is entered to complete this purchase and meet this circumstance. Finally, with regard to section 38, I would like to highlight the Government's commitment to the financial adequacy of territorial administrations, because I believe that throughout the pandemic we have shown that we believe in the territorial state model on which the welfare state rests. We have done so with figures, and I therefore believe that the support of the Spanish Government for all the administrations is indisputable. And also for next year it remains so. In fact, by 2022 the autonomous communities will receive more than 126,500 million by adding up to 6,27 % more, plus the 7 billion corresponding to negative settlements and to the effect of the VAT information system. Remember that a fund of 7 billion has been set up that is aimed precisely at alleviating the financial burden of local governments and also of autonomous communities. In the first, the local entities, we have to incorporate 1228 million precisely to compensate for this liquidation and also the effect of the VAT information system. Thus, 7 billion plus 1228 make a total of 8228 million that increase for this item. I should like to conclude, ladies and gentlemen, by appealing - as always when I rise to this rostrum in these times of parliamentary procedure of the draft budgets - to the capacity for dialogue in politics to solve the problems and face the challenges that we have as a country. All the groups in this House are depositaries of that confidence of Spanish society and we all have responsibility for the processing of these public accounts. For this reason, I would like to thank all those who bet on this dialogue, despite the discrepancies, their availability and also all the groups who honor the exercise of useful policy seeking agreements that consolidate the recovery so that it is fair, so that it reaches all the houses and all the corners of Spain and contributes to the well-being of all the Spaniards. That is the desire of this draft budget and of the sections that I have commented on today with your ladies and gentlemen so that they can receive their approval. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u73	Thank you so much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, in defence of amendments, Mr Rego Candamil has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u74	Thank you, Mr. President. The BNG has tabled various amendments to these sections, in particular some relating to the fact that SEPI belongs to the Ministry of Finance and it is well known - I have just said - that we would have voted in favour of these budgets if Alcoa's public intervention were incorporated into them. This is one of the proposals that we advocate because we believe it is essential to solve a serious social, economic and industrial problem in Galicia and particularly in the region of A Mariña. Likewise, we have a proposal to convert Navantia into an integral industrial complex that is capable of profitableizing all its potentialities, that is based on the shipbuilding - including the civil shipbuilding, until the moment excluded, vetoed - but that is also capable of diversifying its activities, or to create a naval repair center in Vigo, so that, together with the repulsion of Barreras and Vulcan, there can be a full recovery of the activity of the shipbuilding in the Ría de Vigo. At the same time, we are putting forward an amendment for a 5% increase in public employees' salaries, because we do not think it is acceptable that when the CPI is fired above 5%, only a 2% increase is expected, which means that public employees are going to lose purchasing power over the course of 2022, and we also know that public employees' salaries are in many cases also a reference for the evolution of wage negotiation in the private sector. Finally, we have made proposals which we believe are fundamental for the State to be involved in the normalisation of the Galician language in the public media. For example, recover Radio Teatro in Galician language, or own programming in Radiotelevision Española in Galicia, or favor what appears in the investiture agreement that in Galicia it is possible to receive Portuguese radios and televisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u75	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u76	Thank you very much, Mr. President. When today we see pictures in the news of the strikes of metal workers in Cadiz, or of the Pilkington factory in Sagunto, let us remember that the news should not be that or should not be if a container has been burned or if there has been a police charge; the news should be that of the fair demands of the workers. Let us remember that Spain was precisely the first state in Europe to have the eight-hour working day. And how did you get this? With a forty-four-day strike. Not everything is given, it has to be conquered. That is why the news is the demands, and we express our full solidarity with the workers of Cadiz and Sagunto. [[Applauds]] Thank you. This week, ten years ago, I joined this Congress as a congressman. Since then, in Compromís we have always been at the side of the just and legitimate interests of 5 million Valencians and Valencians, and also in the struggle for the well-being of the 47 million citizens of this State. In this line it has been our struggle, since the day we entered and before entering this Congress, to achieve a new funding system that is fair, not only with the Valencians, but also with other autonomous underfunding communities such as ours, such as Andalusia or Murcia. Sometimes, behind that expression 'fair financing' - which is what we Valencians are asking this Saturday going out on the street- what there is is just equal opportunities, well-being of people and effective public services. And all the agreements we have reached in this Congress - the investment agreement, last year's budget agreement and this year's budget agreement - are aimed at a new funding system. We did it before with the People's Party, with little luck, because the People's Party, with its absolute majority, did absolutely nothing. In this respect, the compromise amendments have gone, in one case because of the minister's funding and commitment that before the end of November there would be a document on the table to set up that new funding system that-this is the commitment, obviously-it has to be better with the communities that are being worst treated, and you and I know, minister, that this happens because there are more resources in the system, and with more resources in the system we will probably have the opportunity to reach that agreement. A second important issue of our amendments is closeness. We have agreed an improvement of 25 million euros for the Teruel-Sagunto line, for the connection of Alicante and Elx with the airport, for the train of the coast and in general for the vicinity of Valencia, Alicante and Castellón. In agriculture, we have also agreed on an important amendment in a plague that is destroying many fields and many Valencian citrus fruits, and it is EUR 500,000 for the fight against the pest of cotton. In culture we have managed to double the investment of Palau de les Arts and multiply - I believe an absolutely fair claim - the Valencian musical societies by 100,000 euros. Finally, we consolidated last year's 38 million in metropolitan transport, we consolidated and also increased 60 million more, 600 more in the state as a whole, for dependency, and 28 million for the Valencia 2007 Consortium. I believe that with this agreement that we have signed Commitments and the Government these budgets are somewhat better for the five million Valencians and for the citizens of this country as a whole. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u77	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, I have the floor, Madam Queen Spain.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u78	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are in the most important debate of the year, the General Budgets of the State, which should stimulate the economy and employment, and it turns out that the most important thing for Spain is to deal with the communists, with the independenceists who want to break Spain and with Bildu's friends. Shame on you, Minister! Well, we already tell her that with Bildu, no. We have tabled refoulement amendments and partial amendments to these sections, which I take for granted, and I say to you, Minister, that they are the budgets of the Government of lies, because they are based on totally outdated economic forecasts, as all the bodies have told you, up to the European Commission. By this year, according to the budgets, growth was going to be 9.8% and has remained at less than half, at 4.6%. 7 % for next year no one believes it; it's already 5.5%. Let's talk about taxes. I have to remind you that Spain is the only country that has raised taxes in the midst of the pandemic, and has raised all of them: VAT, IRPF, companies, assets, insurance, Google rate, Tobin rate, pension plans, sugary drinks..., and not the rich. And you, for the next year, insist on the same mistake, raise taxes again: the tax on waste and plastics of one use; a new twist in pension plans; you raise company tax to 15%, being the only country of the 136 that have signed it; you also raise registration tax to 20%; you raise the contributions of the self-employed for the next year and, as it seems to you, ladies and gentlemen, you agree with Brussels that we also have to pay the toll on the roads for their use; you raise the diesel; you eliminate the joint tax reduction; you increase the contributions to the self-employed again, and you also extend the period of calculation of the pension again. That is, as always that governs the left, more taxes and less pensions. Minister, stop talking to your partner, take care of me and respect this Member. [[Rumors]] Copy Mario Draghi, who has lowered taxes by 8 billion euros. [[Applauds]] Do you know, Minister, that there are 12.5 million people at risk of poverty? Are you aware, Minister, that ordinary people, street people, a SME or a self-employed person cannot pay any more taxes? Are you aware that people can no longer pay the deorbited bill for light, that your government is unable to stop? There is a rise in light, gas, diesel, the shopping basket, with an inflation of 5.5%, the highest in the last thirty years, and they also raise taxes again. You say, Minister, that they do not go up much, but if what you have to do is to lower them, as Italy, France and the rest of the countries have done! It's just that you, by going up, are going to go up to the government's salary. What do you think a citizen thinks that with a left-wing government he has to pay more to pay for the rise in the salary of communist and socialist ministers? How do you have the defachability of raising taxes to pay more trust fees, with 108 million euros a year higher in top positions than the last government of the People's Party? And you came to regenerate politics? To regenerate what, ladies and gentlemen? And, on top of that, I don't know why, because they have only executed 31.8 % of investments. In Malaga, minister, they have done nothing. But let's talk about territorial entities. You raise the share of state revenue by 8.7% and 10.9% for communities and local authorities, but, of course, as tax revenues are inflated, it is all a fallacy and in the end it turns out that funding to communities and local authorities decreases, which is mainly reflected in heading 941.O, other transfers to autonomous communities, which fall, Minister, by 44.3%. I understand that it does not raise its head: 44.3% decrease to autonomous communities! They also eliminate the €13,000 million of COVID funds to the Autonomous Communities, which only compensate for a sum of €3904 million for the issue of negative liquidations. In Andalusia, Minister, you take away 2317 million euros from these budgets. That is the real harassment of the autonomous communities and, of course, as they cut across all communities, the whole parliamentary arc has joined together and approved an amendment of €93 billion for COVID funds from the autonomous communities. So, what's your answer? Rebellion, prepotence: they are not going to implement that amendment. Minister, do you remember the remnants of the city halls, that you wanted to stay, burying Congress the decree, thus being able to use them? Do you remember the VAT on masks, saying that it was Brussels that did not allow you to lower it when all the countries had done so? Do you remember the VAT on electricity and the refund of VAT, which said that it had already been spent and now by judgment you have to do so? What credibility do you have, Minister? Are you going to tell us now that you are not going to implement an amendment that has been approved in the Congress of Deputies, where popular sovereignty resides, when lawyers say that the amendment is approved and cannot be reversed? I am going to talk to you about the vetoes, because thanks to the vetoes of the Socialist-Communist Government, neither the VAT on masks, nor the VAT on hotels, nor the VAT on hairdressers, nor the VAT on diapers, nor will we be able to lower taxes and make a tax reform as the People's Party wants, because you have vetoed it to be able to lower the IRPF, to eliminate the inheritance and donation tax and the property tax, which apply only two countries throughout Europe, as well as to lower capital transfers, companies and contributions. Madam Minister, as I said at first, an absolutely sectarian veto and, moreover, with a report against the lawyers of Congress. Minister, today is a very sad day for Spain because the General Budgets of the State, the most important in this country, you have handled them and you are going to agree with the communists, with the independenceists who want to break Spain and with your friends in Bildu. Minister, Otegi said if two hundred prisoners were to be removed from prison, they would be approved. Yesterday Otegi said he will vote in favour of these budgets. White and bottled: prisoners for budgets. I remind you, we'll never make a deal with Bildu. I wouldn't sleep quietly with Podemos in the government. Said by Pedro Sánchez, President of the Government; Government of lies, Government of ruin and Government of blackmail. The People's Party has already told you, Minister, that with Bildu, no. Spain doesn't deserve it. And as they say in my land, in Andalusia: you have already been silenced, and the people of the street will not forgive you. Nothing more and thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u79	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Mazón Ramos has the floor for the joint parliamentary group's position.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u80	Good morning, again. Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister. I said yesterday that budgets are necessary to govern in a minimally decent way. I said it myself and many speakers have said it, so it is nothing new. What seems clear is that at this time it is essential to coordinate with our own resources those coming from the European Union in connection with the recovery of the crisis caused by COVID. Most agree that today we need expansionary budgets, increasing investment and maintaining social spending, and that is what it does. As always, there are two things: the challenge and the commitment. The challenge is to implement it rigorously and the commitment is to fulfil what was agreed in the negotiations. But, in view of what has been implemented during 2021 and what has been agreed and budgeted for in 2020, neither has really been achieved. This year, too, is going to be very complicated. We said in this rostrum also last year that the administrative machinery was degreased, and it continues to be. With regard to the Regionalist Party of Cantabria, you know the agreement we have with the Socialist Party, both for the Cantabria government and for these budgets, and they are more or less well reflected in these documents. But, in addition to the three topics agreed directly by both President Revilla and you - the inclusion of the payment of the debt to Valdecilla, the inclusion of the funds for the La Pasiega logistics center and the financing of the MUPAC, the Museum of Prehistory and Archaeology of Cantabria - which, on the other hand, have fulfilled in extremis the two commitments that we demanded before the vote on the amendment to the whole - that two of those 2020 agreements had been fulfilled, such as the tender for the Renedo to Guarnizo railway and the Potes-Vega road of Liébana, and that the Government has fulfilled these commitments in time - and that other amendments relating to the agreements with Cantabria have also been incorporated into the debates of the Commission, Minister, Mrs Montero, there was still and there is something pending. Because when you say that you have already agreed on the support of the President of Cantabria for the approval of the budgets, it is not entirely correct. Of course, the President does not come to everything and deals with the most important, the most innovative or what comes from the European funds, but the final support depends on more things, on which this Member has to deal. Indeed, they have done so to a great extent. Three amendments remain alive: one in science and innovation, the other in industry and trade, and the other in transport, mobility and urban agenda. In my previous speech I have already tried to convince the minister of the first of them, and I will do the same with the other two. In short, we know the difficulty of budgets. He's got merit in moving them forward, and let's see what happens. I hope we have budgets and we will have to congratulate her. Let us pray that all the applause given to him by the groups that support the Government will not become whistles when the budget is over and that all these optimistic forecasts are not fulfilled, which are made both of revenue and expenditure, and which do not fail in a strept manner. However, it must also be said that all Governments are always very optimistic about both income and expenditure. I want to add something. I said it yesterday in Titles I and II and we have to repeat it. The actual implementation of budgets is what measures good management, and here this Government has much to improve. The responsibility of the Treasury is largely to establish the procedures for improving management. Moreover, you have just assumed the competence of Public Service in your portfolio and we are now seeing all the problems caused by a poor organization of human resources. Although each ministry has a responsibility to execute the expenditure in its competence, the Treasury has an obligation to facilitate, to improve the procedures both for spending and for collecting, and much more at this time when - I also said yesterday - Europe is looking at us with magnifying glass to disburse the extraordinary funds of the COVID. That is why, Minister, the success of the Government, which is ultimately the success of all, depends to a large extent on your department. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u81	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations, Mr Honrubia Hurtado has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u82	Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you, Minister, for your detailed explanation of the budgetary content of these sections. We are indeed making a positive assessment of these and of the budgets as a whole. We share that they are budgets aimed at a fair recovery, mainly to meet the needs of people, and that they are budgets aimed at strengthening the public. I said it yesterday and I'll repeat it again today. It is normal that in the face of this claim, that in the face of this approach of budgets, the right-wing groups come here today again to talk to us about Otegi, ETA or any history. If they were to say what they really think, that they do not like these budgets precisely because they are budgets of social court, oriented to the defense of the working classes and the rights of the citizenry, logically, nobody would vote for them. Therefore, don't be surprised that systematically, you talk about Public Service, finance or science - you talk about what you talk about - they come out with the same thing. On the other hand, we also thank him, unlike what they propose, for the courage that the framework for negotiating the budgets should be given, precisely in that agreement that was originally initiated with the investiture, which was consolidated last year with the approval of the budgets for 2021 and which is now being continued, that framework in which progressive parties collaborate with sovereignist parties of the territories, which are committed to a defence of the public, a defence of social rights and a defence of democracy. What really bothers the right is that this has been bringing together majorities since 2016, particularly since the elections of 20 December 2015, that they have been in a minority since then and that this letter of tahurs that had hidden under the sleeve, by which, supposedly, parties like yours or mine could not collaborate with Catalan parties or with Basque parties, that in the background what came to say is that you could not build another majority that was not what they wanted to impose on the Socialist Party and the whole state, fall to them, and now, logically, they are pissed off because they still have no majority and with the approaches and proposals that they are doing will continue to have it for a long time. On the other hand, I would also like to thank you - I told you last week at the Commission's appearance and I would like to repeat it again today - for the provision your Government has shown for the negotiation on the so-called or'known interim law. We understand that an important effort has been made to improve it with regard to what was the original content of Royal Decree 14/2021. We believe, moreover, that precisely this has had to be done to combat the effects of those policies that the right-wing governments have left us in their inheritance. We know that the policies of zero replacement rates, etc., resulted in the inability of public administrations to defend the general interest and to hire the personnel needed to meet the services. They posed that in a kind of spiral for the degradation of public services that led to privatization, outsourcing, etc., but it also resulted in the fact that a lot of temporary hiring had to be done and that now, at last, a law will be put on top of the table that begins to reverse that whole process. Therefore, we thank you. We are also making a positive assessment of these items that we are discussing right now. We understand, indeed, that this project is intended to transform the public administration, which is linked to the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan and is aimed at modernizing the administration, focusing mainly on the attention to citizens, on the interests and rights of employees and public employees and also on the organization of the public service itself. [[The lady]] Therefore, positive assessment. A positive assessment of a budget increase in virtually all programmes under the Ministry of Finance with regard to public service, both in the general budget linked to the Secretariat of State, with an increase of 5.28%, and in the programme 921.N, of management and organization of the Public Administration, with an increase of 2.20%; such as the 921O programme, of training the staff of the Administrations linked to the INAP, of 12.87 %, or of the programme on which the evaluation of the transparency of public activity, linked to the Transparency and Good Government Council, which has a growth of no less than 25.8%, depends. In addition, there are funds provided through investment 3 of component 11 of the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan, which total 249 million, 239 for the Autonomous Communities and 10,850 million for the State Secretariat itself, with a view to modernizing and adapting its operation to new realities. We understand that this is fundamental. It is essential to understand that strengthening the public is key to the transformation of the productive model, which has to be possible with what is being received through European funds. We understand that the impact of the public on the economy, through the efficient provision of public services and the potential it has on the transformation of the productive fabric, must be taken care of and pampered at budgetary level. And we believe that all this is, in short, what is being done by this coalition government with these budgets. And precisely because of this commitment made by this government of coalition for the strengthening of public services, for the defence of the rights of citizens, for the defence of labour rights - and I see that Mr Marlasca is incorporated - both contrasts with the images we saw yesterday in Cadiz in relation to the way in which we face a conflict and a workers' struggle where basically rights are being claimed. We understand that the images that were seen yesterday are unacceptable. We understand that the attitude being taken would be typical of what was done in the 1980s, where the evil so-called industrial conversion really was a de-industrialization to sticks; we believe it would be typical of ministers of another party and not of the parties that are part of this coalition government. Therefore, we ask that such behavior be stopped, among other things, because they serve no purpose whatsoever.They serve no purpose, because people are not going to stop fighting, people are not going to stop claiming their rights. [[applause]] They only serve to give a bad image of these governments. And it's not going to help them stop what they're asking for because it's completely fair. So, live Cadiz, live working Andalusia and live the struggle of the working class! Nothing more and thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u83	Thank you, Mr. Honrubia. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr González Coello of Portugal has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u84	With all due respect, Madam President. First of all, after listening to the barbarities we have heard, I want to show my solidarity with the 20-year-old biker who died yesterday stamped against a truck stopped by an information picket. I want to show my solidarity with the families of the police and with the police who are attacked with fire, and my revulsion to those who confuse the defense of their job with a struggle or with war; that is barbarity. [[Applauds]] This is a phantasmagorical budget debate on hallucination budgets. A few days ago, the European Commission destroyed the macroeconomic forecast table on which the Government's estimates of income, expenditure and deficit for the biennium 2021/2022 are based. The consensus, the Bank of Spain and international bodies have done the same. The rebound of the national economy is losing intensity and Spain is getting out of the recovery experienced by our European partners. No one trusts their macro projections either inside or outside our country. But it doesn't matter to you; you're obstinate to keep against the wind and you're stunned by your economic dystopia embodied in zombie budgets. Undoubtedly, the rise in energy prices and its consequent inflationary impact are unexpected, but they also affect the rest of the major European economies and their effects on them are not as negative as in Spain. In fact, this is the first time that Spanish GDP has grown below the EU average following a crisis. It is also true that, with a less devout energy transition strategy of the radical climate religion processed by you and more sensitive to the economic structure of Spain, the receipt of light would have risen less. You have accelerated the process of the disappearance of fossil fuels, of nuclear energy, with which the single backup energy is gas, subject to price fluctuations that we do not control. From that diagnosis, discussing your figures is absurd. After the scandalous correction to the decline in GDP growth in the second quarter and the weak behavior of the third, the members of the Government, who know about the gloomy science, were and are fully aware - that is, they say in the privacy - of the great budgetary lie, of the great lie of these budgets. You may not, Minister, have never heard a speech in Parliament that shows the least familiarity with fiscal or budgetary terminology. You always prefer to resort to the noble art of boulevard and the noble art of disqualification. With that said, my intervention could already end; why say something about nothing, about the unbearable lightness of the being of their budgets. However, it is timely and necessary to re-emphasize - for the record - what we have been warning from VOX and proclaiming since before the pandemic; first, that the rebound of the economy would be smaller than what you tell us; second, that with your plans and actions it would be impossible to achieve a healthy and sustainable recovery. Unfortunately, the facts have given us, they are giving us and they will give us reason. Madam Minister, you have embarked on a flight forward that will not end well. The sharp increase in structural spending and, consequently, the escalation of the structural deficit is unsustainable. Even if GDP grew from the projected rates of his Government to much higher rates, they would not serve to correct an imbalance in public finances whose fundamental component is not cyclical. Mrs Montero, you don't have to be a doctor to know that this is a lethal disease. But they do not care; they will pass the dead - as always - to the next, and they will accuse us of antisocials, insolidarians, antipatriots and even fetters, when we have to put - and remang - the necessary measures to fix their demands and avoid the financial collapse of the Spanish nation. The ruined building of its economic programming is based solely and exclusively on a pillar, the purchase of sovereign debt by the ECB, something that is ending with the start of the tapering processes. It should also be borne in mind that the picture will worsen if inflation in the Eurozone persists. Madam Minister, they are trying to pass on to society that opposing this budgetary apparatus is due to partisan interests and puts the reception of European funds at risk. This repeated letany acquires tragical dyes when the European Commission has just knocked down the macroeconomic picture on which its budget is based, when they have launched a pension reform that increases structural spending without taking any action to compensate for this rise, when they have proudly announced the repeal of the 2012 labour reform and the introduction of greater rigidities in the EU's more rigid labour market. Mrs Montero, the greatest dangers for Spain not to receive funds are you. Even if Spain received all the Community resources, we will not be able to take advantage of them. Firstly, because the multiplier effect you have used, as indicated by the Banco de España, is incorrect; secondly, because unfortunately the Administration has little executive capacity, as it has historically shown; thirdly, because the allocation of funds does not know very well what it depends on and where they will go if they are not accompanied by structural measures that allow the liberalisation and flexibility of the market, as the Banco de España also says. The zombie budget is also the result of the Persian market in which his Government's policy has been converted with a distribution of gifts to the various parliamentary forces that enable the Government to survive and, of course, alien to any general interest. It is enough to contemplate the measures adopted to give them the name and surnames of the group whose will is purchased with the money of the suffering taxpayers. As we say again, Spain needs a medium-term stabilization plan aimed at reducing the debt deficit by reducing expenditure rather than tax increases. Spain needs a macroeconomic stability framework within which families and businesses can plan the future with as little uncertainty as possible. Only in this way will it be possible to grow, generate wealth and employment in a sustained way. And this is not only possible, but necessary. They are giving money to the autonomous community to which their own citizens consider - as the European Union has pointed out in a report - the most corrupt, which makes the worst use of public resources: Catalonia. Here is the European Union's report for May this year. [[Show a chart]] Here it is, the worst valued, and you reward giving more money to that government that does so badly according to the Catalans themselves. These budgets are the last, the swan song of a collectivist policy put at the service of an unsustainable socio-economic model. If Rajoy's PP was the last social-democratic government in the classic sense of the term, what you represent shows the stupendous failure of the only social-communist government left in the West. But don't worry, the Spaniards will stay and we'll get Spain out of the way. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u85	Thank you very much, Mr González. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, Mrs Blanquer Alcaraz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u86	Thank you, President. Madam Spain, to ask for respect, the first thing you have to do is respect and not fail the truth. To show a button. Did the diesel go up? No, no, Has joint taxation been reduced? No, no, Well, stop inventing things to justify a widespread tax hike that has not occurred. [[Applauds]] All right, stop confusing and misrepresenting society. Ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, I would like to highlight the great work done by the Ministry of Finance and Public Service to have these very important budgets and, in particular, to do so in time and in form; a recognition that I pray, minister, will transfer your entire team and the Ministry's workers. Ladies and gentlemen, while the 2021 budgets were important for dealing with the pandemic, the 2022 budgets are essential for boosting and consolidating economic recovery through the channelling of important European funds. That alone already invalidates any amendment to the budget. Beyond ideological differences, our country's interests should be above partisan positions. However, the return amendment presented in section 15 demonstrates the absolute lack of political commitment of the People's Party to the general interest of Spain. Mrs Spokesman of the People's Parliamentary Group, your speech and your amendment are full of insults, falsehoods and contradictions for the sole purpose of weakening the Government, although with this it is our country that they weaken. Its sole purpose is to lower budgets without an alternative project to that of the Government. They preach patriotism, but they practice betrayal and disloyalty in Spain. [[Several Members: Hala!-Rumors]] VOX was clearly explained yesterday: the shared goal of the right is to force the government to call elections. That is your ultimate aspiration, not another, to achieve power at the expense of whatever it is, and you accuse the Government of what you really want. The only lack of ethical limits that has been portrayed has been that of the gentlemen of VOX, PP and Citizens in each of their votes in the Committee on Budgets, as my colleague Montse Mínguez pointed out yesterday. They insult the Government for agreeing with groups to draw up budgets that are good for the country, but at the same time they have no problem voting for amendments with those groups if they can put the Government in trouble. Their trichinets and contradictions are regrettable. They accuse the Government of not following the recommendations of the IREF's spending review and, however, when it comes to the truth, they call them invalid. Both the AIReF and the governor of the Banco de España said that the forecast of revenues in these budgets was prudent, but PP and VOX are committed to not accepting it. These budgets tend to reduce the percentages of deficit and debt, but the right is unable to recognize the Government's commitment to fiscal discipline. The governor himself of the Banco de España encouraged measures to be taken for the generations most affected by the crisis, such as young people. These budgets contain measures in this direction and, however, the PP lists them as election expenses. They know that inflation is not an isolated issue from Spain; it surpasses us Belgium, the United States and many other countries. Last Saturday, the President of the European Central Bank acknowledged that the high inflation of the moment was a short-term issue, but it is apparent that to the right that doesn't matter. The fact that the scenario is uncertain should be a cause for progress more united than ever. However, they always use it as a bold weapon against the Government, trying to paralyse budgets that are essential to the country. So, ladies and gentlemen, it is clear: the Spanish right is the threat to the coexistence and hope of this country with its apocalyptic visions. I repeat, without alternative to the government, they are opposed to budgets that allow more than 27 billion investments in European funds. It is a fearsome thing to return the budgets to the Government and yet they insist and commit themselves to it. Minister, her Government had demonstrated two different ways of addressing the crisis. He demonstrated it with the budget of 2021 and again demonstrates it with this budget for 2022 that he is advancing in transparency, that he is betting on social and investment policies with which to strengthen the economic recovery in the face of the cuts and the widespread increases of VAT that the PP did in 2012. Do you remember that, Mrs. Spain? That was a tax inferno, that was a tax inferno. They are budgets that advance in fiscal progressiveness for a better redistribution and strengthening of the state of protection in the face of adversity. These are budgets that guarantee new public offers of employment. Do you remember, Mrs Spain, that you did not take out any public offers of employment? Do you remember? These budgets reinforce the Tax Agency for the fight against fraud, with more personnel and more technological means, in the face of the loss of personnel or the indecent fiscal amnesty that its Government has made. Do you remember? Do you remember, Mrs. Spain? Look, Mr Baldoví said, the revision of the funding model is important, for Valencians too, but it is everyone's responsibility. It will only be possible if we reach a political and territorial agreement and everyone in this House is obliged to do so. It is indisputable that this government meets the communities and meets the municipalities; it gives them oxygen in the face of the suffocation to which the People's Party subjected them when it ruled. That was a real hell for the autonomous communities and for the municipalities. Madam Spain, are you really going to tell your mayors and your presidents that they are going to vote against section 38, which represents greater resources for municipalities and autonomous communities with historical figures, as the Minister explained? Indeed, ladies and gentlemen, I reaffirm that the Spanish right is a risk in itself to our country. On the contrary, Spanish society is our great strength, compromised with vaccination and resistant thanks to government policies that have managed to protect incomes and support the self-employed and the business fabric. Our great opportunity is these fair budgets that strengthen economic recovery, that advance in equality and social and territorial cohesion and that face the country's major challenges of reindustrialization and environmental sustainability. Our bet is on investment, more activity, more employment and more income with which to redistribute, so, ladies and gentlemen, we are voting in favour of the sections and against the amendments and I encourage you to do so too, to vote in favour of this budget, because it is good, because it is fair and responsible. The Spaniards deserve it. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u87	Thank you very much, Mrs. Blanquer. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Section 16, Ministry of the Interior We move on to the debate in section 16, Ministry of the Interior. For the presentation of the section, I have the floor, on behalf of the Government, for the Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u88	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, speak before the plenary of this House to present the budget section for the Ministry of the Interior for the second time in this parliamentary term. First of all, I would like to reiterate once again at parliamentary level my thanks to the public employees belonging to the Ministry of the Interior, 192,000 women and men who, in the State Security Forces and Bodies, Prison Institutions, National Civil Protection System, Directorate-General for Traffic, Asylum and Refugee Office and, in general, in the other agencies that make up the department that I have the honour to lead, have done extraordinary work throughout this year 2021 in the face of equally extraordinary phenomena such as the pandemic, adverse weather events such as the Filomena earthquake, border crises such as the one in Ceuta or managing the arrival of refugees from Afghanistan. It is an extraordinary task, ladies and gentlemen, to which this House is not alien, because without the regulatory framework that you provide us and, above all, without the budgetary capacities that you approve annually, all these actions will be carried out with much more difficulty and possibly with less means. I would also like, Madam President, to express in these first words a message of solidarity for the people who live on the island of La Palma and who since last September have suffered the consequences of the eruption of the Old Cumbre volcano; a situation that has already led to the destruction of many private and public goods. To them and to them, to the neighbours of La Palma, therefore, a first message of solidarity and support. They have the Ministry of the Interior with them, they have the whole government supporting them and they have - I am convinced - the solidarity of this House that represents them. Ladies and gentlemen, the General Budgets of the State constitute the encrypted and accounting expression of three objectives pursued by the Government of Spain for the year 2022. First, to ensure a just recovery; a recovery that people have their real and main priority. These General Budgets of the State for 2022 consolidates a just economic and social recovery that will reach all the people and territories of our country and that implies the greatest expenditure of history on scholarships, pensions, dependency or social services. A recovery that drives the implementation of the 2030 Security Model, which is based no more or less than on the recovery of security as a public good, whose goal is to build a safety net in which, thanks to the work carried out by hundreds of thousands of public employees, each of us, each of us, can freely choose how he wants to live and how he wants to enjoy his well-being, his rights and his freedoms. To this end, Madam President, we present a section, the 16th, in which we increase the budget of the Ministry of the Interior by 5.11% and reach the 9632 million euros. It is an increase of 455 million euros compared to the year 2021 and contemplates some of the most important actions of this department in the last three years. First, the incorporation of 4843 personnel into the State Security Forces and Bodies during this year, of 2030 new public employees in Prison Institutions this year or the expansion of examiners in the General Directorate of Traffic. It also envisages the modernization and improvement of our equipment and means of action; for example, with EUR 4 200000 for the Ministry's Digital Plan, EUR 3 million for the modernisation of the processing of asylum applications, EUR 82 million for the renewal of the fleet of police and civil guard helicopters, EUR 15 400 000 for the Directorate-General for Civil Protection and Emergencies, EUR 8 200 000 for the renovation of infrastructure and police equipment and EUR 20 600 000 for the coverage of the Pegasus systems and the renewal of the vehicles of the mobile park of the Civil Guard Traffic Group. These are budgets on which we also rely on policies of dignity and the construction of the public memory of our society, as evidenced by the increase of 40 000 euros in the endowment of the Victims of Terrorism Foundation or the increase of 50 000 euros in subsidies to the entities of defence and representation of the victims of terrorism, precisely when ten years of the victory of democracy and the rule of law against the terrorist organisation ETA are fulfilled. Madam President, together with the just recovery, these General State Budgets are aligned with advances in equality and secure ecological and digital transition of Spanish society also in the Ministry of the Interior. Budget Section 16 will enable the 2030 Security Model to continue to materialise in three important areas. Firstly, by promoting the secure digitisation of our country with 40 250 000 euros of the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan that will be dedicated to actions in the field of digital identity and training of the Forces and Bodies of State Security and Prison Institutions or with 1 750 000 euros for the modernization of the management of electoral processes. Secondly, by aligning the ministry with the ecological transition, we can think of the almost 205 million euros that the Ministry of the Interior will receive, through credit transfer, for the realization of projects within the framework of the Energy Transition Plan in the General Administration of the State, of which more than 120 million will be allocated to buildings and almost 85 million to mobility projects. Finally, as it cannot be otherwise, ratifying our commitment to the social and territorial cohesion of our country, since these general budgets of 2022 allow to strengthen the incorporation of the demographic challenge into public security policies with measures as relevant as the commitment for the decentralized presence of agencies in the territory, being good proof of this the consolidation of the Center of Prison Studies in Cuenca or the endowment of 4 million euros for the creation of the university center of the National Police in Ávila. It also increased EUR 12 million in border infrastructure security, prison infrastructure and the implementation of the PNR system. Or almost EUR 44 million to strengthen the projects of the long-distance traffic management system. Some measures, ladies and gentlemen, which, in the area of digitisation, ecological transition and territorial equity, note the progress already expressed in Parliament on 17 February 2020 in securing the physical, digital, environmental or road environments in which we all develop our lives. Finally - I conclude, President - they are budgets with a clear vocation of generating public value. Yes, of public value generation. This progressive government of the Spanish and United Socialist Workers' Party We can, as you all know, commit to the President's investiture speech to strengthen the public services of the welfare state. Proof of this is the public job offers, which in the General Administration of the State have exceeded by 73% the offers made by the governments of the People's Party. Security is an area that, unfortunately, has not been freed from cuts or other practices by previous Governments. Therefore, since the motion of censure, the Government of Pedro Sánchez has opted for measures that will find their continuity in these budgets for the year 2022. The remuneration conditions of public employees will be improved by 2%, conditions that are preceded - ladies and gentlemen, it must be remembered - in the field of the State Security Forces and Bodies of the implementation in three sections of the equalization agreement that the People's Party signed and kept - yes, it kept - in a drawer. An Implementation that consolidated EUR 807 million last year in the payroll of the agents and involved an average increase of more than 20%. In addition, the General Budgets of the State will allow - as the Secretary of State for Security in the Internal Commission has already announced - to have a replenishment rate of 125 per cent for the Security Forces and Bodies, also to incorporate the staff of the Asylum and Refugee Office, as well as to modernize the infrastructures of the State security within the framework of the actions announced to them in their different appearances by the heads of the management centres of this Ministry of the Interior. Therefore - I conclude, Madam President - the budgets of this ministry are perfectly coordinated with the broad lines of the budgets for 2022. They enable us to advance the objectives of the planned and proposed coalition government in the investiture and are a key element in continuing the policy of implementing and deploying the 2030 security model, which, as I have told you on other occasions, is based on the recovery of security as a public good, the strengthening of our rights and freedoms, as well as the modernization of public security policies. A model fully aligned with the need to ensure a fair recovery - as it began - that will not leave anyone behind; fast, because the public bet will facilitate the exit from this crisis, and above all clean and exemplary in the behaviour of public officials. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u89	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] In defence of amendments, Mr García Adanero has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u90	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. First of all, I support our group's amendment to this ministry. Look, Mr Marlaska, if you want to congratulate all the people who work in the Ministry of the Interior, you have the opportunity on Saturday - on the 27th - because they are all going to show up in Madrid; they are all going to come out and ask for your resignation. [[Applauds]] Therefore, you can receive them at the door of the ministry, talk to them, and at that time congratulate them on their work. This morning we were talking about Podemos - which I thought I was going to say something here -: Hey, stop throwing us tanks on the street. And, of course, you wonder if you're telling us. No, they were telling the government. I mean, the government was telling the government, don't take the tanks out. But what is this? But are you the Government and other members of the Government not the Government? Because you said here: the Socialist Party and We can. But in the light of that, when it comes to certain things, solidarity among the members of the Government seems to be shining over their absence. I'm going to tell you more, this is something derived from a labor issue. And one wonders, and who is the Minister of Labour? The Minister of Labor, who is from Podemos, who is the one who has to mediate on this issue, does not solve the issue, is touring in an alternative campaign with Pedro Sánchez, but accuses you of using the police against the protesters. But have we realized that the Government is a collegiate body, which is supportive of its decisions? In the end, do you support the action of the National Police or do you support what the Vice President of the Government says? Let's see if he answers us and we know a little bit about what we're dealing with. [[Applauds]] I imagine the answer, with which we already know what is happening, we imagine the answer it gives. You have managed to get only the Socialist Party and Bildu to support you in this Congress right now, which says a lot about the government's action; everyone else, today, is asking for your resignation, and we have been there for a long time because it has given many reasons. You have spoken here of a lot of money, but the feeling of insecurity that exists today in Spain is the greatest in recent years. Don't talk to me about data; you know, like me, that's the feeling there is, a feeling of insecurity, and it comes from it because you stand on the side of the offender; when someone is delinquent, instead of defending police action, they are defending the offender. That's what they do all the time, and in the end, that's what it's giving is a feeling of insecurity. He's leaving the police, the state security forces and bodies at the foot of the horses. The problem they have - and that's why they're manifesting themselves next Saturday - is that you, the few elements they have in defense, are taking them away. Any day all those things you've said you're going to buy, investment, etc., you'll take them away too. The material is of little use to them if they cannot use it in the end and if they are not guaranteed security in their work by law. [[Applauds]] And that's what they're doing. On the other hand, it is true that work is being done with the Association of Victims of Terrorism with textbooks or units to teach schoolchildren. But look at how complicated this is, because you're working, you go to school, you explain to them what terrorism was in Spain, and when you tell the kids that, then you go out and you agree with those who applauded those murders. So, while the children are being taught that there was terrorism in Spain, those murderers, the ones who applauded those murders, are the partners of the government now. So, what kind of education am I moving? And I also tell you that those who come out of the books they murdered, now their government partners receive them in their localities with applause and this is allowed by the Ministry of the Interior. So, what are we moving into society? That's what they're doing. Mr Marlaska, we have asked you so many times for your resignation that I no longer ask for or for your resignation, only to be clear on which side you are on, whether you are finally on the side of the law, on the side of the State Security Forces and Corpses, on the side of the rule of law, on the democratic side, on the side of the Constitution, or if you are on the side of your partners. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u91	Thank you, Mr. García. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Gutiérrez Vivas has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u92	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good afternoon now, ladies and gentlemen. Minister, I will tell you why from our parliamentary group, Citizens, we understand that these budgets which you have presented to us and which you have come to defend are not good for Spain. They are not good for Spain for two reasons, Minister. Firstly, because they are not for the men and women of our State Security Forces and Bodies, for the men and women of our penal institutions, in general for all the men and women who make up the Ministry of the Interior. And now I'll explain why. But neither are they, Minister, because it is precisely you who come to defend them. That is why they are not good for Spain; because it is you who have come up to this rostrum to defend them when we believe that you should no longer be defending these budgets. You have given sufficient reasons throughout your term of office to have been terminated by the President of the Government. And I'm not going to extend into the story of the trophies you've made, I'm going to quote just the last two, which is already the last. You are also the official propagator of the ministry's bubbles. You are propagating the bubble about homophobic aggression in Madrid and then propagating a bubble about a false complaint in Villena prison; by the way, false complaint that you and evidently all those responsible for the penitentiary institution suspended several officials from employment and pay without being returned to them. How long is this gonna last? Do you believe that your men and women, those 190,000 officials you mentioned, can feel supported and defended in this act that we are doing here, in the act of defending the budget? No, Minister, no, because you are more concerned about other things, about the ideological side, that part that seems to be lying that it has been ideologicalized in this government to that extent, is more busy defending that than really defending the men and women who make up the institutions of the Ministry of the Interior. Minister, you have demonstrations every day this week; you are going to start on the 24th, tomorrow, you also have the prison institution on Friday, there will be a big demonstration on the 27th in Madrid where we will, of course, be at the head defending those rights and doubts that you want to reflect in the amendments to the processing of the law on citizen security, those doubts about the men and women of our State Security Forces and Corpses. It seems inconceivable. And with all that you dare to go up here and say that these budgets are good for those 190,000 people, men and women, who make up the institution of the Ministry of the Interior. For we believe that they are very bad budgets, because they are budgets that do not address a real, real match of the State Security Forces and Corpses with other autonomous police officers, nor a hidden salary increase, which is very well of course. We want and they want, and so they say every day, a real equality, because it does not address the uniqueness of the workers of the Gibraltar Field, because it does not address the uniqueness of the State Security Forces and Bodies in the performance of their functions in Catalonia, because you do not address at any time the differences that make national police have to be staying overnight in Balearics in minimum housing, in infra-victims and even in some cases camping in cars, because you do not put in place an infrastructure plan suitable for the National Police and for the Civil Guard. In short, our amendments sought to remedy these issues, Minister. I believe that we have done a good job, we have put in place those things that the officials themselves were demanding of us, but also those that we understand to be structural in the area of the Ministry of the Interior and which your Government has certainly never listened to. You do not solve the deployment in the rural world, you do not solve the surrender of competences that you have made in Traffic, in the mountain rescue, in the maritime security in Catalonia now to other security forces, the autonomous police. But it is also that you allow yourself the luxury of vetoing even initiatives of parliamentary groups, initiatives that are good for these groups and are good at solving the structural problem that the Ministry of the Interior drags on. Therefore, on what criteria do you dare to veto amendments from the parliamentary groups? Don't you have a determined majority? So leave the dialogue, leave the debate and let the parliamentary groups finally express themselves and be able to vote freely. These vetoes do not lead to anything, they are another example of the sectarianism of your Government and of what you are exercising. I will mention amendments and agreements that you have vetoed: a labour agreement on public governance within the prison public service. Do you think the prison public service doesn't need a governance agreement? But if you have a disaster mounted in the prison institution, Minister, and you don't listen to it. But if there have been even trade unionists who have had to be locked up last week within the general secretariat of the prison institution. We are presenting a comprehensive national plan to strengthen aid to the phenomenon of migration, listen, something very cross-cutting and I think very common sense, but you have done nothing in this respect and have provided nothing in your budgets for this. We present a modification of the Civil Guard personnel regime to unify access to the basic scales of non-commissioned officers and cable lines, and you don't want to know any of this, but I think this is good because they are historical demands of the civil service. In short, Minister, these are bad budgets, which are bad for the institutions you run. We understand that you should not be here presenting and defending these budgets. Minister, have some decency and go home. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u93	Thank you, Mr. Gutiérrez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mrs Vázquez Blanco has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u94	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, these are the budgets in which there is a currency of exchange so that Mr Sánchez can remain in power for what it costs: to negotiate with Bildu the prison policy, to negotiate with Esquerra the change of competences and the withdrawal of the police and the Civil Guard of Catalonia, and with We can repeal the Law on Citizen Security and turn it into an anti-systems law for anti-systems. Mr Marlaska, do you really believe that the budgets of the Ministry of the Interior are good when they are supported by Bildu and Esquerra? Do you really think they're good when they're approved in exchange for rewarding terrorists with rapprochement and third degree? Do you really think they're good when they negotiate in exchange for putting two hundred bloodthirsty terrorists on the street? Do you really believe that the budgets of the Ministry of the Interior are good when they are accompanied by heartbreaking decisions for the victims of terrorism, supported by the most nauseous support that has ever been seen, which is that of Otegi, by those who pay tribute to terrorists? Do you think the budgets of the Ministry of the Interior are good when they are supported by the Republican Left of Catalonia, who goes up to this rostrum to express his hatred of the Police and the Civil Guard? Do you think the budgets of the Ministry of the Interior are good when they are supported by those who for xenophobic reasons prevented the vaccination of police and civilian guards in Catalonia? Do you believe, Minister, that they are good when you support them We can, those who have been convicted of kicking the police, those who instigate violence against the police, even those ministers who today call you for what is happening in Cadiz when it comes to murder police? Do you think they're good? Do you really believe that these are the best budgets, supported by those who hate and hate the State Security Forces and Bodies? How can these budgets be good, Mr Marlaska - what a joke is this - when they are supported by a whole clique of people who hate the police and the Civil Guard? Minister, yesterday I heard some statements from you about the Citizens' Security Act. I've been sleeping there for a year, and now they're in a hurry because it's accompanied by budgets. I will tell you one thing: the People's Parliamentary Group and the People's Party do not use the State Security Forces and Bodies to defend the Citizens' Security Act; the People's Party made the Citizens' Security Act; the People's Party defended it in the Constitutional Court; the People's Party has defended it in the European Court of Human Rights; and the People's Party is going to defend it, as it weighs it, tomorrow and Saturday on the streets with the police and the Civil Guard. [[Applauds]] The People's Party did not change its mind, it was you who changed it. You did change your mind, because you didn't want to repeal this law and now you're in a hurry because it's accompanied by a betrayal, of leaving the police and the Civil Guard helpless. Here the only one who uses the police and the Civil Guard politically is you to repeal this law, leaving them abandoned, without being able to defend yourself in your police operations. The only one who uses them is you now repealing the Citizenship Security Act. Not protecting the State Security Forces and Bodies is not protecting the Spaniards. This law is not only to protect the police and the Civil Guard, it is to protect the Spaniards. Now we're going to have a more insecure Spain: if you use drugs, nothing happens; if you don't have money, you won't pay the fines; if you beat a cop, you're free with 30 euros. Mr. Marlaska, the police without authority, the police turned into taxi drivers. But what is this you want to do? All because he's the most advanced in progress, because he's out saying he's got sanchist pedigree. You're the one who has it the most and you want to prove it so you try to forget your past. But you're wrong, Mr. Marlaska, you can't be working alone for those who violate the law, when your job should be the other way around. It's embarrassing to see how you, who had to protect the police, the Civil Guard and prison officials, don't do it. In the case of the Villena prison you go out saying and supporting the Deputy Director of Security of that prison and saying that she is a true official. Aren't the other 20,000 real prison officials, Mr. Marlaska? What are they? Are they bad officials, Mr. Marlaska? And you are all going to express your support for this lady, who somehow falsified evidence against the rest of the officials, and you are going to support her. Why do they not manifest when every thirty-six hours a prison officer is assaulted in Spain? You wanted to criminalize all prison officials and you've done it, so far you've proved all the lies and farce you've invented. [[Applauds]] By the way, return immediately to staff members who are suspended from employment and salary. I give you a warning: now you know what it's like to have prison officials locked up, right?, you've been locked up last week. But you know what? Unlike you, when you were locked up with the People's Party we didn't send you to riot control; you did send them to public servants. What is not able to send the CDRs to Catalonia, sends anti-riots to prison institutions to evict them. It's a shame. These are the veto budgets by vote. They veto the special zone of singularity of Gibraltar and Catalonia, but do not veto an amendment by Esquerra calling for the police to leave Via Laietana; they veto an amendment by the People's Party to comply with the wage equalization agreement, but they do not veto an amendment by Esquerra to remove the police and the Civil Guard 500 million. Salary's up. You, with more charges, cost us more than 300,000 euros, but it turns out you are not able to allocate 62 million euros for prison officials. These are the budgets of the stories, not the accounts. You come here to give large amounts, and I'm only going to make a point: between the 2018 budgets and the budgets that you bring today, there is only a difference of 2,700 police and civilian guard positions. You started lying, even one day here you dared to say that in Catalonia since you arrived there were 6,000 more cops. But if there are 6,300 police and civilian guards in total, how would there be 6,000 more than when you arrived, Mr. Marlaska? He has no idea of the police and civilian guards he has in Catalonia. Then he doesn't execute the budgets. In costumes they only executed 29%, as if it were not necessary; in transport, only 44%. Do you know what they've executed? The transfer to the Mossos, 450 million to the tarpaulin in June; the transfer to Morocco, 44 million to the tarpaulin in August. With those he does fulfill and execute. On the other hand, the Ministry of the Interior leaves 40% unexecuted. We're going to vote against it because we don't want budget prisoners. Not vetoes by vote, not tales by account...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u95	Mrs. Vazquez, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u96	Finished. ...not to a more insecure Spain and not to agree with ETA heirs. Mr. Marlaska, a pact with Bildu is to lose the democratic soul. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u97	Thank you, Mrs. Vazquez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Cortés Gómez has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u98	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, you have already seen what the right wing of this House is. Mr. García Adanero asked him a question - I don't know if it was rhetorical or a threat - that resounds in the Chamber. I was asking you, which side are you on? On the subject of budgets, I would like to point out that 51% of the increase in this budget - EUR 236 million - is concentrated in Chapter 1, staff expenditure, since it is a ministry with a strong component of human capital and with a forecast of exceeding by 2022 the 185 000 staff, to which is to be added the more than 13,000 who serve in the autonomous agencies of the department. I would also like to highlight investments in infrastructure, especially in digital infrastructure. In this regard, we welcome the intersection between the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Digital Transformation with regard to the creation of a State agency for the control of artificial intelligence. I believe that this is a challenge to fundamental national security. In this regard, I wanted to highlight the digitalization tractor projects of the General Administration of the State, Citizen Security and Prison Institutions, with a total of 21.25 million euros, increasing by 15 million regarding the allocation of the previous year. From this credit, they will also undertake projects in the field of the subsecretariat aimed at a new model of electronic identification in certain departments of the department that pays attention to citizens, businesses and society. And it will also continue with the agenda started in 2021 related to digital identity projects, mainly in the area of DNI 4.0, managed by the Directorate-General of Police, to which will be allocated a total of 18.4 million euros. These digital powers for the State, with a budget of 19 million euros, 8 which will be managed by the Directorate-General of Police and 11 by the Directorate-General of the Civil Guard, will be used for the training in digital competences of the members of the State Security Forces and Bodies. In this regard, I would like to highlight the novelty of the University Training Centre of the Police in Ávila and the Prison Training Centre in Cuenca. I wanted to highlight by points the investment made in the Secretariat of State for Security, which is experiencing the greatest increase in this chapter, with an increase of 82 million for the renewal of the fleet of helicopters for the Police and the Civil Guard, and that made in the Directorate-General of the Police, which increases its chapter 6 by 8.2 million, of which 3.9 million corresponds to expenditure on infrastructure in central and peripheral services. The investment in the Civil Guard has increased its chapter 6 by 23 million euros, of which 20 will be for the purchase of vehicles due to the need for fleet renewal, of an average of 1800 vehicles. The General Secretariat of Prison Institutions maintains its appropriation of chapter 6, with 10.2 million, and also includes in chapter 6 an allocation of 34.4 million euros to the Recovery and Resilience Mechanism for carrying out actions and projects in the field of digital identity, as I have said before. So far, the chapter on General State Budgets. Now, as you know, these days there is a labor conflict in the Bay of Cadiz. Different people from the Government have referred to you; specifically, the Vice-President second asking for explanations for the deployment of the IPU device, specifically for the use of a tanker in Puerto Real. The president of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the Podemos-En Comú Podemos, Jaume Asens, has asked him to withdraw the tank from the streets of Cadiz, and humbly, as spokesman for the Interior, I will also ask him to remove the tank from the streets of Cadiz. [[Applauds]] You have the authority to issue this order. I also wanted to ask you in this regard for a sense of state, but particularly a sense of progressive state. From a left-wing dialectic we cannot allow the solution offered by the Government for a labour dispute, for the strike of the metal workers in Cadiz, who are fighting for the bread of their families, to be repression. The Government's action must be aimed at facilitating negotiations, and in this case what they are asking for is a very simple thing: they are calling for a re-evaluation of the salary on the rise of the CPI. What they're asking for is a rise between 2 and 3%. It seems very reasonable to me, and I think that's where we should be, from the workers. This morning he was also told that we did not see tankers when the neo-Nazis marched through Chueca, we did not see tankers on Núñez de Balboa street and we will certainly not see tankers on the 27th, when those who want to shield the Law gag will manifest in Madrid. It seems good to me that there are no tanks in the streets, what seems wrong to me is that they are used against the popular classes, just as we felt bad to the Confederal Group when the repression was used in Vallecas. Here it seems they always catch the same, the working classes. Why is it that repression is not used in the streets of the wealthy neighborhoods with the same force that is used when the humble people are the protestors, the working people? The question posed to you by Mr García Adanero again echoes in the Chamber: which side are you on? Thank you very much, President. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u99	Thank you, Mr. Cortés. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Olona Choclán has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u100	With all due respect, Madam President. Minister, good morning. As was the case last year, VOX has shown its frontal rejection of the public accounts of this Government, which are based on false macroeconomic projections, which do not meet the needs of citizens and their ideological sectarianism, such as the 32 million euros allocated from Equality to fight against masculinity in the countryside; which subject the Spaniards to fiscal hell, especially to the middle class, to SMEs and self-reliant, and which have been closed with the stamp of ETA, obtaining the support of Bildu in exchange for the release of the 200 staves that remain in prison. Frontal rejection by registering an amendment to the full refund. And throughout its 86 spreadsheets - which I of course do not read - also, as happened last year, the internal budget deserves a very prominent section because of the lack of adequate budget allocation, the lack of resources for our State Security Forces and Bodies, the absence of a just, legitimate and real wage equalization and the absolute abandonment of our prison officials. From an examination of that section 16 of the budgets for 2022, the one for the Interior, we find that the policy of citizen security in penitentiary institutions is endowed with appropriations of 10 149 million euros, which represents hardly 2% of the total appropriations budgeted in those budgets of 458 970 million euros. With the numbers in hand, this Government makes it clear that security policy in our country, the fight against crime, is not among its priorities. Was it from the PP when he ruled? Of course not, not at all. But VOX speaks to him, minister, we are not equal, we are not a replacement neither of the blue bench, nor of the red bench, nor of course of the dwelling; we are the alternative and in our DNA are the authority, the law and the order,, because without security there is no freedom; without security there is no welfare for the Spaniards, only for the criminals. [[applause]] VOX recorded an amendment to the budgets for 2022 on 29 October as a whole - as I tell you - and it was later that there was a new development which had a full impact on the accounts of its section 16 and which made the figures envisaged in it absolutely unreal. In fact, after more than a year stuck in its process in Congress, the reform of the Law on Citizen Security, a reform registered by the Basque Nationalist Party in January 2020, has been released just at this very moment by blackmailing its investiture partners through an agreement between the Socialist Party and Podemos. After more than 40 enlargement agreements by the Bureau in the course of this legislative initiative, it was last 10 November when the deadline for the groups to submit amendments finally expired. And this reform of the Law on Citizen Security - as I say - affects fully section 16 of the budgets, specifically 73.3% of the total budgeted appropriations for the Interior, 7442 million euros, which will logically be applied in one way or another according to what the policy of citizen security is in force in Spain. But before I address in a concrete way what are the main aspects of this reform, allow me to show you a photograph, Minister of the Interior. [[Show a picture]] Look, this photograph shows the presentation that has been made in Congress to process the reform of the Law on Citizen Security, and in it appear the parties that have either presented or subsequently support the reform; we have from Basque Communists to Basque and Catholic separatists; in the center, the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party. The parties that appear in this photograph control 90% of the street violence that occurs in Spain. Tell me, Minister, who is this coven going to legislate for? [[Applauds]] Let us look at the highlights of the reform of the Citizens' Security Act. You are allowed to take images... Minister, are you interested in what we're talking about? The police officers are allowed to take images in the performance of their duties and disseminate them, eliminating the current serious administrative offence that this entails; the presumption of veracity of police attestations is eliminated, placing the word of the police at the same level as that of the offender. Tell me, Minister, are traffic fines, which are administrative penalties, going to lose that presumption of veracity? Because it would be logical, wouldn't it? [[Applauds]] Spontaneous demonstrations are allowed without the obligation to communicate beforehand or warn of their journey, spontaneous demonstrations such as those that occurred throughout Spain, burning the streets, on the occasion of the release of the rapper delinquent, without giving the police room to manoeuvre in order to assess case by case what is the risk of the call and the police operation necessary to preserve our security. Now, when a person refuses to identify, the agents will only be able to hold her for up to two hours; before that it was six hours. At this time they will have to transfer it to the police station, identify it, if necessary take a statement and, in order to finish, minister - this is their reform - they will have to return it to the point of origin where they would have taken the person for their subsequent identification. All of that within a maximum of two hours, turning our agents into taxi drivers. What do we do with rural environments? What do we do with the macrobotellones? Because in the state budgets for 2022, far from increasing the number of agents destined for citizen security, they have been reduced by 3434 and 1738 for the National Police and Civil Guard, respectively. Nor will patrol cars be increased, now that our agents are going to devote themselves to taxiing. [[Applauds]] And what do we do with the identified subjects who are returned to the collection point? I will set an example for the Spanish to understand us, Minister of the Interior. A patrol observed a male in suspicious attitude wandering around in a playground. The call is received and the police come to identify him; there is no crime, only he comes. He is undocumented and transferred to the police station to identify him; he has a history of sexual assault and, with the reform, after de-identifying him, as he has not committed a crime, from now on what the police will have to do is to return him to that playground within a maximum of two hours, to see if by chance the children are still there and can commit some kind of crime against them, without there being any agents intended to monitor him because, of course, they will have to take other calls with the small number of troops they currently have. But, tell me, minister, because it is not included in your budgets, what happens if there is an accident in the displacement of this sexual predator? Who's gonna pay for it? Because nothing is included in your Section 16 accounts. Finally, and for lack of time, let's talk about anti-disturbing material, because agents are now forbidden to authorize rubber balls, something that is a last resort - as you know - on police devices, but that is essential in the face of street violence as a deterrent to avoiding the body by body. How is it going to repel the violent now if they're throwing warheads at our agents, minister? Because we have seen in the last few hours that your government only allows you to parade tanks throw water and BMR armor if the concentration is in Cadiz, but not so in Catalonia. The situation is so serious that tomorrow and next Saturday will take place the biggest police mobilizations that have occurred in Spain. More than a hundred thousand agents are going to go out on the street in an action unit under the same slogan: 'No to insecure Spain'. Because it is a reform that empties the capacity of police action to protect citizens and that of course turns the accounts of your department into wet paper. I conclude, Madam President, by addressing all the Spaniards, who are united by a common sense of law, order and authority, to ask them to join those police mobilizations apart from ideologies. This isn't a police issue, behind the thin line are you and your family.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u101	Mrs. Olona, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u102	There are no scenarios between order and chaos. If it goes beyond the line of order, there's only chaos, and in that chaos you'll be alone, you and your family. [[It shows a sign that reads: 'No to insecure Spain. Against the reform of the Citizens' Security Act']] Thank you, Madam President. [[Prolonged applause by the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, on the ground]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u103	Thank you, Mrs. Olona. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Serrada Pariente has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u104	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of VOX, what will be the next thing you will do to those of us who do not share with you how to understand politics and how to work in this House? What will be next, besides taking a photo in a session of the constitution of a paper and what will be next for you to point us out in the photo of that paper? [[A Member of Parliament: Nothing!]] Ladies and gentlemen of VOX, you are very wrong about what this House is, what the Council represents and what the citizens represent and, above all, are far removed from what the values of our democracy are. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, you are talking about the Law on Security, on the Defence of the State Security Forces and Bodies, but do not deceive us, the Law on Citizen Security you did not do it to protect citizens, not even to protect the security forces and bodies, you did it to protect yourselves. You made the Law on Citizen Security to protect yourselves, to prevent society from manifesting itself freely on the streets, for that you made the Law on Citizen Security. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, you have done so badly at the head of the Ministry of the Interior, so badly, that you are leaving a trail everywhere. For example, we should only read last week's Diary of Sessions, 11 November, of the Committee of Inquiry into the Kitchen plot. Sounds like it to you, doesn't it? These little things that you have left in the Ministry of the Interior and in other ministries, about police investigations, you yourself, not just political opponents, but yourself. I read Ignacio Ulloa, the first Secretary of State for Security, between January 2012 and January 2013 - we are talking about budgets today - 'They told me that 20% of the expenses of the Secretary of State must be cut'. Well, look at the first order, the first mandate of the People's Party: cuts. I see how you protect the State Security Forces and Corpses. Okay, yes, there was an economic crisis and you had to cut it. Wow, man, it had to be cut in safety too! That is why the crime rate rose during the People's Party's mandate. However, during the Socialist Party's term of office in November, it has descended. Look at you, the lowest rate in the last five years. Next question. Mr Ulloa said - I keep reading -, the first Secretary of State for Security of the People's Party: '... I was the only one who could offer the minister my technical knowledge and my job, I could not offer him politics or media screening or artefacts or any kind of action other than strict compliance with the law...'. Well, I have not found a better definition of what the Ministry of the Interior was under its mandate: political use and abandonment of the State Security Forces and Bodies, expressed by a former Secretary of Security of its own, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party. You come here today to talk about the abandonment of the State Security Forces and Corpses, you come here to talk about the insecurity that is being generated. Man, I think you should be a little more responsible for your past and what you did. Ladies and gentlemen of VOX, what is your proposal on safety? We don't know which one it is, except for the soflamas and everything they have here. We do not know how you will do one of the questions you are raising, ladies and gentlemen of VOX. Beyond using or trying to use the Civil Guard associations and the police unions politically, you don't give any more of yourself in the area of security. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, you have tabled a set of amendments which highlight everything you have not done during the seven years of your government. You now propose to invest in barracks, when you cut your budget. You talk about investing in vehicles, precisely when the biggest expense this ministry is making is in investing in vehicles because you didn't just buy but didn't even devote yourselves to maintaining them. You tell us that we must remember prison officials. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, what have you done with the prison officials? They didn't do anything, because they didn't call, they didn't call, they didn't call, they didn't call, they didn't call, they didn't call, they didn't call, they didn't call, they didn't call. The age of prison officials is above 45 years, precisely because you did not call places or reform the replacement rate, which was yours as a government. All this, ladies and gentlemen of the right - what capacity do you have, Minister, to reconcile this whole right every time you come to the House -, always do so for the same, to wear down the government, to wear it down to you and to put into question the management that is being carried out by the Ministry of the Interior, which now does, Minister, focus on what has to be focused, which is not only the protection of our agents, but is also above all that of creating spaces of freedom in which citizens can express themselves and themselves in the best possible way. These are budgets that rise by 5%, but last year's budgets have also risen, but it is that more public employment is generated, but it is that a new model of investment is also generated at the head of the Ministry of the Interior, and this is also happening in the period of the most important economic crisis in our history. As the minister has already said, this year 4843 police and Civil Guard personnel will be incorporated, 2030 new positions of prison personnel have been convened, the National Police University Centre and the Prison Studies Centre will be created, 600 million euros will be invested in state security facilities. Also, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party - and I know this is up to you - the Socialist Party Government is committed to security, it is committed to a model of public security, it is committed to a model of security accessible to all citizens, to which everyone will be able to access on equal terms. I know that is a very clever phrase, but you said it, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, that of'security for those who can afford it'. However, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, security is for all citizens and for all citizens of this country. And most importantly, these are budgets that they do is invest in security. That is why our society is now freer, fairer, more egalitarian and safer. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u105	Thank you very much, Mr Serrada. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Section 17, Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda We continue with the debate in section 17, Ministry of Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda. For the presentation of the section, I have the floor on behalf of the Government, the Minister for Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u106	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I appear before this House to present to you the draft budgets of the Ministry of Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda for the year 2022. This Government has prepared budgets for a fair recovery that will make Spain a more productive, more competitive and sustainable country and to ensure that economic improvement reaches all families. In this way, these budgets are part of a stage of growth in our economy which, together with the injection of European funds, gives us the opportunity to allocate resources to social and productive investment. [[The Lord]] The priority objectives that we have set ourselves in these budgets for the 2022 financial year in the Ministry are: to ensure sustainable, safe and efficient mobility for all citizens; to consider the right to decent and affordable housing as a reference and central value of all housing actions; and to improve the contribution of the transport sector to the achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals that our society needs, as the consequences of not addressing the challenge of sustainability are clearly being demonstrated. These are, therefore, budgets of impetus and modernisation, which will support economic growth and accelerate reforms that will allow us to be more resilient in social, economic and environmental terms; and this, because the ecological and digital transition are key to the sustainability of our productive model and the quality of life of citizens. In addition, these are budgets that promote equality, territorial cohesion and cohesion between people to ensure equal opportunities regardless of where they were born or lived. On the basis of these premises, I will then give you some specific details of the budget submitted by the Ministry of Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda for 2022. The group's consolidated budget for 2022 in chapters 4, 6, 7 and 8 and investments by the entities amounts to EUR 19,328 million, an increase of 14.9% over the current budgets. Of this amount, the amount earmarked for investment is growing even more, 17 %, reaching 16 286 million. They are, therefore, the continuation of a radical change of trend that we have already started last year. Together, they represent a determined commitment to recovery, but without leaving anyone behind, giving continuity to the effort begun in last year's budgets to mitigate the impact of the biggest health crisis in our history. This investment effort is guaranteed by the funds from the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan approved by the European Commission, which is a key lever for speeding up the above-mentioned processes. In the budgets for 2022 the funds from this mechanism amount to a total of €65 billion. Thanks to this plan we will accelerate the implementation of policies for which we are committed to mobility and housing. In particular, the major items of the plan are to decarbonize our cities, to co-ordinate, connect and modernise mobility and housing policy through the creation of a real social rental housing park and for the rehabilitation of the existing building park. It is a key part of economic recovery and its job creation capacity. We are therefore faced with a ministry whose responsibility is capital, as the investment we plan to make represents about 40% of public investment in budgets and 1.3% of gross domestic product and will involve the creation of about 350,000 jobs, many in sectors with a high capacity for future development. And when we talk about sustainability we do it seriously, more than 54% of the investment and capital transfers from the ministry's budget have green labels. They are budgets geared to the citizens and companies that form the productive fabric of our country, which focus on their needs and on the incorporation of mechanisms to deal with the changes that we are facing. In detailing what we are going to do with these budgets, I would like to focus first on housing policy and the urban agenda, as these budgets represent a change in the order of magnitude of the figures that this ministry invested in other stages of government. For you to come up with an idea, we multiply the budget inherited from 2018 by seven. It has never invested so much in rehabilitation and public promotion to respond to what is a social emergency, for which it is a peremptory need of many families and thousands and thousands of young people, whose emancipation we will support with programs such as the young rental bonus. The importance we attach to these policies is evident in the budgetary effort they concentrate, with an increase of 46.8% over the current budget. Thus, we have allocated EUR 3289 million to housing and urban agenda - an increase of EUR 1048 million - which is the largest budget in history in this area. Our priorities in this area will be, first of all, the management of the new State Plan for Access to Housing 2022-2025, which will have 425 million euros in the coming year, as signed with each of the autonomous communities. Secondly, the young rental voucher, which will have a budget of 200 million euros. In addition, the Housing Plan for Affordable Rent and Other Shares, which will have 144 million euros. But, in addition to the funds of the Recovery and Resilience Mechanism, a total of EUR 2489 million is allocated to housing policies for rehabilitation programmes for economic and social recovery in residential environments, with EUR 1389 million; for the construction of social rental housing in energy-efficient buildings, with EUR 500 million, and stressing that with this amount more will be allocated during 2023 the construction of 20,000 social rental housing will be promoted. Also from the funds correspond to the sustainable and digital rehabilitation of public buildings for local entities, 600 million euros, and finally, the policies of urban agenda and architecture that will have 32 million euros, destined to give continuity to the commitment of recovery and enrichment of our monumental historical heritage. I would also like to go on to detail the main transport and infrastructure items. As your ladies and gentlemen know, the other great challenge of our ministry's actions is the transformation of our mobility to make it safer, more sustainable, more inclusive and more digital. The transport sector is a strategic sector for the overall development of the country's economy; a sector that guarantees the mobility of citizens, responds to the free movement of goods and is a basic tool for increasing the productivity of the country's economy. It is also a fundamental pillar for achieving the environmental objectives of a modern and developed society. Also in this case, the funds of the Recovery and Resilience Mechanism provide a fundamental part of the appropriations to finance the actions we present. The most relevant figures in this area are as follows. Almost EUR 1285 million from European funds will be earmarked to support investments to be made by local authorities, the autonomous communities and companies, both public and private. In particular, EUR 951 million will be devoted to the deployment of low-emission areas in urban and metropolitan environments and to the digital and sustainable transformation of urban transport and mobility. EUR 150 million has also been planned for the transformation of fleets of private passenger and freight transport companies, EUR 172 million related to digitisation of both administrative services and transport companies, and EUR 11 million to boost the training of public transport and logistics professionals. Together with these actions financed by European funds, we must not forget the maintenance of the instruments which have traditionally formed the fundamental part of transport policy. Thus, we also include in the budgets EUR 321 million to finance grants to consortia, metropolitan authorities and local authorities to finance urban collective transport. In addition, an additional EUR 51 million is needed to subsidise urban collective transport in other municipalities, including the financing of public service obligations, be they rail, air and sea, so as to ensure the viability of these services, which will have a budget of more than EUR 1253 million in 2022. Similarly, air and sea ticket bonuses for residents of non- peninsular territories will have an appropriation of EUR 783 million in 2022 to finance 75 % of the price of air and boat tickets for residents of non- peninsular territories. For their part, also the bonuses to large families in the rail, air and sea transport will have a budget of slightly more than 24 million euros. In addition, subsidies for the transport of goods with the extra-penisular territories will have a budget of more than EUR 74 million. Nor would I want to forget in this chapter the slightly more than EUR 92.5 million intended to meet the reductions in tolls on state highways, maintaining those currently in force and encouraging the introduction of new reductions. Turning briefly to the different modes of transport, the railway is the mode of transport that leads the investments planned for the next year with an investment of 6924 million euros, an amount that accounts for almost 42% of the total investments of this ministry and which is increased by 13,6% compared to the budget of 2021. In this amount, the items intended for the development of new lines to complement the Trans-European Transport Network are highlighted. Here I must remind you that both the Mediterranean and Atlantic Corridors respond to a country strategy to improve our rail connection with the rest of Europe in a balanced manner throughout the Iberian Peninsula, which is reflected in the General Budgets of the State, with more than EUR 17 billion earmarked for the Mediterranean Corridor and EUR 14 billion for the Atlantic. Also the adaptation and improvement of the conventional network, with special dedication to the metropolitan transport of surroundings, to which we allocate more than 1500 million euros. In this sense, we have a clear commitment to daily mobility, the transformation of urban and proximity transport, with the aim of making it an attractive and reliable public transport as a backbone of urban mobility. Also the improvement of the connections for the traffic of goods, where the railway is called to be a fundamental actor thanks to its sustainability,so we increase investments in conventional network by 55%. For its part, for the investment corresponding to roads, a total of 2463 million. I would like to highlight the provision for maintenance and maintenance operations, which amounts to EUR 1371 million. This is the largest conservation budget in history for the State's road network. It represents an 11 % growth over the 2021 budget and an accumulated 75 % growth over the 2018 extended budget. As far as the maritime mode is concerned, investments reach just over EUR 1 billion and have as their priority objectives the improvement of rail connectivity, environmental and energy sustainability or digitisation and innovation. All this, not to mention the investment in improving our maritime rescue and pollution control system. In the air mode, the planned investment amounts to EUR 836 million, and I would like to stress that these figures include the forecasts of DORA II 2022-2026, with which we aim to recover traffic and efficient management of the airport network, environmental sustainability and innovation as an essential part for efficiency and quality in the provision of services. At the same time, in the field of air navigation, we also continue to make progress in digitisation, automation and technological impetus. I should like to conclude, ladies and gentlemen, by stressing some of the most important figures in the budgets that I am presenting to you today, with which we will help to consolidate the recovery of our economy. They contain a historic public investment of 16286 million euros because this ministry is key to our country's economic recovery. We have a total of €6.5 billion from the European Union Recovery and Resilience Mechanism for urban rehabilitation and regeneration, sustainable mobility, digitisation, intermodality and logistics. They are just budgets for an inclusive recovery for all and for all, which target housing policies and urban agenda almost €33 billion to combat exclusion, help the emancipation of young people, promote rehabilitation and combat energy poverty. They are budgets that drive daily mobility, the sustainable transformation of urban and proximity transport, betting on proximity and also on the high speed and conventional network that unites and connects territories and people. These are, in short, budgets for a decentralized and coordinated Spain, as demonstrated by the more than €36 billion in transfers to the autonomous communities and local entities, which have been earmarked for sustainable mobility projects, rehabilitation and social housing. These are budgets for the safe, sustainable and connected transformation, which are truly committed to the conservation and safety of our road network, our infrastructure network, which drive the digitisation of transport and move towards environmental sustainability and the fight against climate change, because more than 54% of the investment in this budget, I insist, according to the criteria set by Europe, is green-labelled investment. In short, they are budgets for the citizens of our country to be able to improve their housing, their building, their neighbourhood, their city or to see their mobility opportunities facilitated and improved. Finally, I would also like to express my thanks to those political formations which, during the course of the draft law, have expressed their willingness to support these General State Budgets for the next financial year of 2022 and which have been translated into, and are being translated into, the adoption of amendments. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u107	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] In defence of amendments, Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u108	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Good afternoon, Minister of Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda. Allow me first of all to defend all the amendments of the Joint Parliamentary Group to this section 17, corresponding to the ministry you hold. However, with my intervention, I would like to make express reference to those presented by Foro Asturias, which total budgetary corrections of almost 33 million euros and which corresponds to the government's major omissions in terms of infrastructure for a community that urgently needs them to reverse its membership of the club of hemiplejica Spain, which, year after year, is gradually relegated from the twenty-first century, when not isolated. However, the ministerial relief produced this year gives budgetary continuity to what its predecessor did. The whole period that has taken place as President of the Government Pedro Sánchez, almost three and a half years, has been a waste of time for Asturias and a setback in its modernization with the breach of its specific commitments acquired in the debate of the motion of censure of 2018, in which he stated the following - I open quotes -: '... logically we are going to respect the execution of the works that have been budgeted in terms of infrastructures by the current Government; there is no other - Mr Sánchez said - because obviously they are not our budgets, but of course we are not going to fail to comply with the agreement of this House'. Well, he flagrantly failed. And now it is necessary to add and observe the delays and paralysiss of works and projects - I repeat - essential for a region that for years has unlike the worst data in the national labour force rate, that is, the official indicator of the Spaniards who work or are looking for work. A review allows us to point out some endless projects that Asturias needs for its immediate future. Unlike other territories and infrastructure projects in the area of high rail speed, the European width or UIC has been relegated and disregarded the high speed requirements between Madrid and Asturias within the north-northwest corridor, whose result should be a time of two hours and thirty minutes on the route Madrid-Oviedo, homologable with that of the rest of the capitals and major cities of Spain, such as Zaragoza, Valencia, Alicante, Castellón, Murcia, Seville, Malaga or Barcelona. I am not comforted that in the AVE in Galicia, about to enter service, this government has also leaned slowly. Similarly, the Government has withdrawn the agreement to undertake the informational studies of the railway sections Pola de Lena-Oviedo and Gijón-Avilés in Asturias, designed to maintain the centrality of the stations affected by the circulation of the AVE and to combine their use with the appropriate network of proximity. You mentioned, Madam Minister, the importance of TEN-T rail corridors and yet, once again, the comparative aggravation persists in view of the investor treatment that will receive the development of the Mediterranean corridor and that of another strategic corridor, such as the Atlantic, whose execution is again relegated. This unequal treatment of the Government with the two trans-European rail corridors is unjustifiable and a demonstration of the lack of equity in the allocation of the annual budget appropriations contained in Chapter 6 of the General Budgets of the State. Minister, in relation to the railway network in the vicinity, your ministry fulminated the closeness plan agreed at the end of 2017 by the then Ministry of Development, of the People's Party, and the Government of the Principality, of the Socialist Party, supported by municipalities and trade union and business organizations of Asturias. The railway proximity plan provided for investments amounting to EUR 580 million up to 2025, of which 338 were intended for the Iberian wide network and the rest for the metric width, formerly FEVE. By 2022, 11 times more investment is planned for the Catalan rolling stock than for the Asturian neighbourhoods, which have suffered a serious abandonment in both infrastructure and rolling stock. As is already the tradition, coinciding with the arrival of the Socialist Party to the government, the momentum of the plan of integration of the railway in Gijón has been reinvigorated, ignoring the agreement published in May 2019 in the Official Gazette of the State, signed by the three administrations and by the different political parties with municipal representation, to place the future intermodal station in the vicinity of the Railway Museum, so that the centrality for which the project was conceived is lost. It is already built in the basement, unused and abandoned for years, a tunnel of 3.5 kilometers, with space for several underground stations, in order to bring the train closer to the citizens and attract users for the railway. Far from fulfilling his word and respecting what has been signed and published in the BOE, the Executive has paralysed this very important project for Gijón and Asturias, to which the draft general budgets for 2022 devotes some 39,840 euros. Her secretary of state, Mrs. Pardo de Vera, is one of the signatories to that 2019 convention, then as president of ADIF. Madam Minister, I am sorry to note that your arrival at the head of the Ministry of Transport does not represent any novelty in the budgetary treatment towards Asturias, it is pure inertia. The budgets will continue to deepen the gap with which the coalition government PSOE-We can treat Asturians on a crucial issue for the modernization and competitiveness of our land. In terms of road transport, the Cornellana-Salas-La Espina motorway, between Oviedo and La Espina, a transcendental infrastructure for the south-western Asturian, is slowing down and is now practically paralysed as a result of an Argayo. The neighbors of the south-western Asturian have been demanding for months that the journey through the N-634 be speeded up uselessly. In port matter we continue without motorway of the sea between the Port of Gijón - El Musel - and that of Saint-Nazaire, another alternative French port. Asturian ports will remain unconnected with the European rail network, TEN-T, as a result of the maintenance of the Iberian track width.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u109	You must finish, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u110	I conclude, Mr President, by pointing out that I have also made various partial amendments to ADIF's budgets, although I do not have the slightest hope that the government will amend public accounts for this section 17, which again represents a huge fiasco for Asturias. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u111	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr López-Bas Valero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u112	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, Minister. What we have been told today by the Citizens' Group is, above all, two doubts, in terms of stability and implementation. In the area of stability, firstly, because we are being offered budgets in which almost 40% of your ministry, in this section, as happened last year, is financed from European funds and, secondly, in the case of whether these funds will be maintained in the future, which is clearly not going to be the case. And as far as implementation itself is concerned, it offers us doubts about the overall implementation of investments by the Government, as has been repeated for years, especially in this area. Section 17 is perhaps the one that accumulates the greatest number of amendments to a government's budget proposals, and in Citizens we are convinced that this profusion of amendments in this section is not - except for the amendments we have tabled from Citizens - for the real interest in the greatest benefit of all Spaniards. We don't think that's the case, because there's a game mechanics, a card game, a continuous invite, a chrome exchange in this section and in your amendments, a game that you only play with Rufian or Otegi, something that can't end well for Spain. Since 2016, when Citizens broke into this Congress of Deputies, we have always been demanding a national infrastructure plan, a plan for all of Spain. We did it in March 2016 and we have consistently demanded it and at all times, as we did, for example, just a few weeks ago. We do so and we will continue to do so precisely to prevent it from happening again from this moment the same thing that has happened in the budgets of 2021 or 2022: to use strategic investments in infrastructures without technical criteria and only to buy nationalist and populist votes. What you have done and have repeated now is simply to negotiate with roads, railways, airports or seaports with parties, as I say, nationalists. They have done so by having another alternative, which was precisely not to link those investments to those shameful pacts that are cut through the back door. Mr Sánchez has done as Mr Rajoy did before, as Mr Rodríguez Zapatero did before and as all the governments, including Aznar and González, have done in democracy. You have done it again, having an option to do it another way, and you have chosen simply to submit to those who are going to hold you in power. That is why we do not believe it when you tell us that these budgets are a model change in your ministry, because it does not matter that in Spain there is no single and prior model in the medium and long term, where it is established that roads or railways are designed, built and maintained with criteria of sustainability and effectiveness. It does not matter that these infrastructures are consistent with the territorial and social reality of the Spaniards, because the Government has never been interested in the fact that a road, a motorway or a train route will not be allowed to move people from where they work or study, or that the transport of goods takes them from where they are consumed or where other products are produced with them. He has never been interested in performing airport infrastructures where they best serve the interests of the whole of Spain, but where we had to cut tapes before an election campaign or tie up support from Junqueras, Artur Mas, Carod-Rovira or the Jordi Pujol in turn, even though then we had airports without planes and illegal referendums. It doesn't matter if port infrastructure is profitable, because it favors international trade, the presence of Spanish trade in the world and the generation of wealth. The problem, as I say, is that President Sánchez, being able to choose, has decided to go with his current partners. You, ladies and gentlemen of the government groups, have been told since Moncloa not to read the Citizens' amendments, not to look at them, not to be seen at some logical and coherent point. They have put their earphones in order not to see anything other than the benefit of Mr Sánchez and not the benefit of the Spaniards. And look, some of those amendments that you are going to accept from your partners we think are good. Some of them - we have read each and every one of them - we believe that they can be in line with what is good for Spain, because they are infrastructures that are necessary for the Spaniards. They may be more urgent or less urgent, more priority or less priority, but of course they have no ideology; they do not have it, unless they come along with tables of dialogue with those who do not believe in the common project of Spain, unless they come with linguistic impositions or complaints to those who speak Spanish in a school or university or come with the transfer of terrorists and benefits to murderers, in short, when these infrastructures are not the price of the dismantling of the State in some areas of Spain. That is why we, in Citizens, have supported amendments that have been tabled by some groups only for their territories, groups that do not care, in some cases, if the rest of the Spaniards have the same level of quality in their mobility and transport infrastructures in their housing policies. What does Esquerra care about in the end if there's an AVE to Extremadura? What is the problem with PNV if, for example, there is no rail connection to Alicante Airport? I tell you, they don't care at all. But we do care that it is invested, for example, in adapting the airport of Hondarribia or the public use environment of the port of Santurce or that Catalonia sees the N-II in Girona unfolded or the N-340 between L'hospitalet De l'Infant and Alcanar or that the network of rolling stock is modernized or that it is invested in the recovery of the most socially and urbanly degraded neighborhoods of Barcelona. These are the amendments that Citizens have tabled in the more than 240 amendments that have been tabled in this section, which aim to give coherence to transport, mobility and housing policies. That is why this government has vetoed amendments by Citizens who have no interest other than that of Spain, such as improving the electric vehicle in the registration tax or reducing the port rates to allow for greater competitiveness in the international framework of all Spanish seaports. Ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE, yesterday you ended the debate on budgets with a servile palmoteo and a jojo jiji, saying that Citizens or that the PP had supported, like you, amendments from Esquerra or Bildu. I will tell you where the difference is between each other: we value the amendments, all the amendments, when they propose infrastructures in a territory that the Spanish need; you support them with the extra cost of dialogue tables, self-determination referendums or bringing terrorists closer to the Basque Country. That is the extra cost that you have to pay in autonomous budgets that discriminate, for example, Spanish as an official language throughout Spain. You will have to explain this in Extremadura, Castile and León, Andalusia, Asturias and the rest of Spain. Finally, you could have chosen to look at the Citizens' amendments. I assure you that it is not that you would have felt more liberal, you would have felt much freer. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u113	Thank you. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Rego Candaimil has the floor. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u114	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, you did yesterday a trip in AVE - I don't know if propaganda, but at least promotional - between Madrid and Ourense: 500 kilometers in two hours and twenty-five minutes. All right, but I don't know if you consider that with this trip there is an end to years and years of discrimination against Galicia in relation to infrastructure. Because, look, maybe I should try going by train from Santiago to Lugo, for example. Beyond the delay of the AVE - look, thirty years from the first line in 1992; twenty-eight years since Abel Caballero, then Minister of Transport and today the flaming president of the FEMP for his party and head of Christmas in the world, promised the AVE in 1993; eleven years since Aznar promised it in 2010, or seven years since Pepe Blanco promised it in 2015-, it is not possible to go from Santiago to Lugo directly. It's 100 kilometers. Imagine that between Barcelona and Tarragona, 100 kilometers, there was no railway line. That tour takes thirty-one minutes, but if we want to go from Lugo to Santiago we will lose two hours and twenty-five minutes for Ourense and three hours for A Coruña, in the absence of a 30-kilometre stretch between Ordes and Curtis.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u115	Your Honor, you must finish, your time is over.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u116	And one question: How many of the 16 billion budgeted to improve proximity invested your apartment in Galicia? I tell him: zero, because there are no closenesses in Galicia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u117	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Sabanes Nadal has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u118	Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Minister, this section of the budget covers issues of vital importance, such as housing and the urban agenda, but they will allow me to focus more on mobility due to the shortage of time and the climate emergency, which is a key element for ecological transition, territorial cohesion and social cohesion. Within mobility, train travel is the most efficient in terms of capacity, emissions and connectivity. However, in the last decade Spain has mainly dedicated itself to investing more in roads, more in airports-to expand or leave them empty - than in the train and its maintenance as a service capable of connecting our entire country. It is the change that the transport network needs and, in this regard, we have maintained the amendments. First and foremost, for the future, a law on financing public transport is needed. That's fundamental. And secondly, it is necessary to boost and recover regional trains that are being abandoned and dismantled. For people to choose trains, there has to be more; there cannot be only one frequency in the day, because then it is impossible. For this reason, from More Country-Greens-Equo we have proposed improvements in the expansion of the network of proximity and conventional trains throughout the State. Only in this way, combined with high speed, will it be possible to achieve the objective of reducing the environmental impact of short-distance flights in order to find an alternative by rail. We also raise the issue of night trains on a decentralized basis. First they call us eccentrics, then they think about it and then they do. For now, we have managed to get you to do a study of Spain's connection with the main cities of Europe, in addition to the project that is already being promoted by Germany and France. We will continue to insist. We are convinced that, in the end, the issue of night trains will come forward, as well as the impetus of conventional railways; they will come forward because we have health and we have cohesion and territorial equality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u119	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Bel Accensi has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u120	Thank you, President. Minister, very late. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I rise to this rostrum after I have already announced a government agreement with the Democratic Party to support these budgets. In addition to defending the amendments that we have already negotiated in your section, Minister, I would like to thank you for your sensitivity in some respects, but above all I want to say two things to you. First, she is fortunate, because she is one of the ministers who will have a budget in her most important ministry, and that will be thanks to this House, but this fortune brings her a responsibility. As I have said on different occasions to different ministers and to the President of the Government, the responsibility of this House for the budget will end when the budget is completed, which will be this week, in any case in a few weeks' time if the Senate amends any aspect, but from now on it is the responsibility of the Government, and the only thing I ask you, Minister, is that you execute swiftly, that you execute diligently. Having a budget of which only 30% or 40% of the budgeted investment is then implemented is a failure of the Government. The failure of the House would be not to put the budget tool at its disposal, but what cannot be done is that the degree of implementation is as low as it has been during this current year, beyond circumstances that can justify it and that can be generalized to other administrations. Nor is it acceptable for the degree of implementation to be so asymmetric according to the Autonomous Communities. You are Catalan, you know perfectly well the needs of Catalonia, you know the history of investments in Catalonia and you are very lucky - I told you before - to have an important budget in Catalonia, surely the most important. Now what is necessary, what is essential is that it be carried out and done as diligently as possible, and that when you or another Government present a budget here, it can be said that the Government of Spain complies with the budgetary implementation that we Members are authorizing it at this time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u121	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr. Lorite Lorite has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u122	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good afternoon, Minister, ladies and gentlemen. The State General Budgets Bill for 2022 is based on false economic forecasts and failed policies. These budgets have four sources that feed them: the independence demands, the Zapatero doctrine, the ideological radicalism of your government partners and the manifest inability you have to implement the investments. Madam Minister, you have shown servility to the interests of independence, and this has deepened territorial imbalances. I'll give you an example, which is from my province, Córdoba. As you said in this rostrum a moment ago, investment budgets increase by 17%, but for Cordoba they are reduced by 24%. While each Spaniard will receive 274 euros in investments, a Cordobé will receive 180, a Madrid 169 and an Alicante 96. Multilevel Spain seems to be doing this injustice, which causes them to pay the bill of the independenceists to keep Sánchez in the Moncloa. In order for a budget to be transformative, Minister, the investments it contains must be productive, and what you have talked about is the repetition of Zapatero's Plan E. With these policies we will reach the same place, that is, another economic crisis like that. The radical and sectarian influence of its Podemos partners is evident, and it is seen, among other issues, in the promulgation of the new Housing Act, which will put the housing market in a situation of legal insecurity through the control of rents, of the peronist bonds to which you have mentioned, and which punishes investment in housing. You say that you will contribute EUR 25 billion to housing policies in 2022 from European funds, but what happened, Minister, to the EUR 16 billion in 2021, of which you have not implemented a single euro? Madam Minister, you have been talking since 2018 about a plan to build 20,000 homes, and you have not executed any of them at all. But its inability to implement the budget is anthological, and the data sing it: 40% in terms of investments, only 40%, and if we are talking about Community funds, only 30%. That is to say, you have EUR 5 billion for investments, and you have only implemented 1600. You talk about state agreements on infrastructure, but it's that you've already made a deal, and yesterday you made it meridianly clear to us. Their arrogance has led to the rejection of each and every one of the 860 amendments tabled by my group to boost and reorient policies in the fields of infrastructure, transport, mobility, housing and the postal sector. You guys alone qualify. The collapse of the bidding of public works is alarming, Minister. We can see it in the Roads Directorate General, or we can see the 32% drop in AENA. By the way, you already know what your management in airport matters is: on the one hand, you refuse to reduce airport charges, as indicated by the CNMC, and on the other hand, you give a dantesc spectacle kneeling before the independenceists and avoiding the expansion of El Prat airport. [[Applauds]] You came to the government saying that 97% of your commitments were fulfilled, and you did not cheat, because from there you did absolutely nothing in key sectors such as rail transport. Where are the Mediterranean and Atlantic rail corridors, the proximity plans, the fulfilment of rail public service obligations, the Renfe employment plan or the replacement of 100 per cent of railway frequencies? The drivers, Mrs. Sánchez, retire and there's no relief. That has led to strikes, but the worst is that it is causing, for example, more than a hundred trains not to leave every day in the vicinity of Valencia. The largest public company in Spain is Post Office and is at risk of bankruptcy. Are you going to do something other than cut the funds from the universal postal service? Madam Minister, the transporters are receiving for their part only abandonment and contempt; those who secured home supply in the confinement; those who have not received a single euro of direct aid; those to which you and your Government have deceived, because they went to promise the National Road Transport Committee that they would not implement any kind of toll if there was no agreement with the sector. Today you already have an agreement from the Council of Ministers in Brussels to set up tolls. [[Denials of the Minister of Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda, Sánchez Jiménez]] Yes, Minister, don't tell me no; it is. And all this along with the 30% rise in the price of fuels, before which you are doing nothing - 30%!-. Look at what other countries do, such as Portugal or France: extraordinary measures to cushion this blow to transporters. Well, what's causing all that? A strike call, a pre-Christmas strike call. Madam Minister, I make a suggestion to you. Cancel your intention to impose tolls and dialogue with the sector, thus preventing the stoppage of transport on such critical dates. Otherwise, it will only show that they need to impose tolls to finance their waste, to pay the most expensive and unproductive government in history, and to give 400 euros to every young person to spend on video games. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u123	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] In turn of fixing positions, by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, I have the floor Mr Mayoral Perales.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u124	Thank you, Mr. President. The truth is that it is not an easy day - at least for me - to intervene in this House. As other colleagues in my group have already done, I want to show our solidarity with the metal workers on strike in the province of Cadiz. I wanted to convey to this House a substantive reflection... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u125	One second, please, one second. I'd pray silence, please. Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u126	I wanted to convey a fundamental reflection, because it is not an isolated case that is taking place in the negotiation of the metal agreement in Cadiz, and it is that it may be a generalized attitude of the employer to try to prevent the economic recovery of our country. We are not going to get out of this crisis with the formulas proposed by Milton Friedman and collected in unison by many political forces in 2008. We're not going out like this, it's not possible. The model of wage devaluation, deregulation, relocation and outsourcing is not a way out of this crisis. It is important that there is an agreement of responsibility on the part of all actors to understand that from this crisis comes, essentially, with the re-evaluation of work, with the re-evaluation of wages and with the improvement of working conditions, as a central element in order to propose a way out of the situation that we are currently experiencing. Moreover, I believe that this also directly affects public policies. I believe that these accounts are a step - a small step, not a big step - a small step in the right direction, in the direction of exiting from the neoliberal model, in the direction of exiting from a transport policy based solely and exclusively on high speed and which forgets the needs of the working people of this country, the closeness and the half distances. And we are beginning to balance the investment balance, but we must continue to push hard, precisely to understand that in order to be able to get out of a social and economic situation like the one we have we must have at the centre the social majorities. That means we have to reflect, and not just at the juncture, but look a little beyond the press headline or tweet we find on social media. When we talk about rail transport and think about freight transport, it is very good that we say that we have to bet on rail freight transport as a strategic axis in order to cope with the ecological transition, but we need a deep reflection in Spain and Europe. When the transport of railway goods was liberalized we were at 9% of the volume of goods transported by rail and liberalisation has left us at 3% - it does not arrive -. This is not a reflection solely of our country, but of the model of the European Union. It is not possible to think that without the State as a central, dynamic and planning element of transport we will be able to face this process of transition and transformation of transport in our country; it is not viable. We have to think of other logics. We were told a few years ago that we had to separate Renfe and ADIF because the European Union was telling us, as if it were something outside of us. Germany, Austria, France have it together. Why? Because it allows for better public intervention and better planning of an essential element. We need to get out of an economic model based on speculation and extractive income and we need to value work, that income from work has the capacity to boost the economy. It is important to raise wages, it is important to lower rents to increase the disposable income of working classes, so important is the law of the right to housing. It is important that we assume international human rights commitments in terms of forced evictions without housing alternatives, while at the same time understanding that lowering and controlling rent prices is precisely in the face of the monopolistic attitude of certain funds that stand in the way of artificial price increases. Public intervention is necessary. Housing must become a central element to ensure the dignified life of all people. When we talk about public enterprises, we have to set an example, and that means that we have to rethink outsourcing and start thinking about staff internalization, about leaving the logic of not replenishing the necessary staff and that the templates are aged. We have to be able to understand that in the model of the public enterprise, as happens today in Post Offices, you cannot use temporary work companies - you have to think about how to stop doing it once and for all - that the only thing that they provide is precariousness and an increase in inefficiency in the provision of services. Precarity affects workers' rights, but it also affects the efficiency of public services. This leads us to give an in-depth reflection on how to get out of the neoliberal model. Things are being thought of in the European Union. We are now talking about the concept of strategic autonomy, which has to do with the failure of the neoliberal model during the pandemic and the need for public intervention in strategic economic sectors to ensure the life of the population in Europe, because the logics of relocation are no longer useful. It is necessary to strengthen the whole of public services - I am finishing - as a central element, and that means that we need to address the issue of precariousness in services as essential as Maritime Rescue and in many others that I do not have time to specifically name now. I believe that the democratic forces of this country have a challenge. The 1948 pact between democratic forces stated that civil and political rights are inseparable from economic and social rights. We must put this pact back on the table and make it the central element of public policy that allows us to understand that neoliberalism also comes out. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u127	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs De las Heras Fernández has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u128	Thank you very much, Mr President. These are the high offices and high loads - I must admit that on this occasion the second denomination is more appropriate - of the Ministry of Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda. [[shows several leaflets with photographs]] I think it is important to talk about them because, while this government has left thousands of families out of work, it has closed down business and banned the Spanish, all of them, from working these high and high burdens, it has raised their salaries. This is just a reflection of what really interests this disgovernment: its well-being and that of its minions. When they talk about welfare, when they talk about employment, or when they talk about prosperity, they're serious, but they're talking about themselves. I still remember how they got tired of repeating over and over again that the rise of diesel was not going to affect the professionals. Have you talked to them? Have you met with them? Do you know what it means for the government to say that the rise in diesel fuel is not going to affect professionals? That the rise in diesel will affect the professionals. Gas oil accounts for one third of the costs of a sector in which six out of ten workers are self-employed or companies with less than three trucks. These parents talk about the unsustainable situation, the fall of many, that they have no negotiating capacity, that they are forgotten, abandoned or spoiled. And for what? To raise the salary of your high loads. I'm sorry, I forgot, too, about your chiringuitos. This year, the budget allocations for studies and technical work carried out by other companies and professionals are also increased. Are there not enough professionals in the ministry? No one's ashamed? None? This is pure socialism: it expolates the Spaniards to carry it into their own pockets. [[Applauds]] But this time with the connivance of terrorists, separatists and communists in exchange for profit to murderers and the attack on the nation. Shame, disgust, death, ruin, lie. I could rate your budgets in a lot of ways. The Spaniards have a right to know what their money is spent on. I would like to highlight the 100 million euros of the Directorate-General for Land Transport to private companies in order to compensate for the concessionary companies of motorways, of which more than half go to the AP-9, currently in the process of passing their competition to Galicia, precisely to reduce the costs of tolling. So, what's compensation supposed to go for, if they're going to reduce costs with the transfer? We find it wonderful to reduce the cost of tolls, in fact we are in favour of eliminating or reducing any unnecessary tax that impoverishes the lives of the Spaniards, because the money of the Spaniards where it is best is in their pockets. [[Applauds]] The most cynical thing, gentlemen of the government, is that they improve the existing tolls, but they want to tax the roads of all Spain, and so we will be the Spaniards who end up paying their harmful, deficient and concessionary agreements, because they will impact them through the budgets of the state. Its pretext is the polluter pays principle, Directive 2004/35 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 21 April 2004 lays down environmental liability. For according to this principle, it is the cause - listen to me well: the cause - that must cover the cost of preventive or remedial measures. Four hundred private Glasgow planes arrived at the airport at the 2021 Climate Summit, including the Falcon, of course. [[shows a photograph]] Ironically, world leaders accuse the population of contaminating, impact costs on the self-employed by bringing them to the brink of bankruptcy and, in the meantime, will prevent climate change on their private jet. Some ecologists. [[Applauds]] And who is responsible, according to European legislation? What we do know is who pays it: the transporters, the buses, the airlines, the motorists, the taxi drivers. Everyone but them. Another increase in the budget line is found in Sasemar, the rescue at sea, which adds to the increase in the previous year, which tripled the forecast of people who will arrive at our shores. Although you are filled with words about saving lives, the truth is that you encourage the opposite, and I refer to the facts, ladies and gentlemen: ten days ago two dead were found in Formentera waters; in what we have been doing for the year, two others in Cabrera waters; twenty-four dead bodies in cajuco 550 kilometers from El Hierro. In short, more than two thousand people died only from 1 January to 30 June. Do you really think they save lives? But perhaps the worst of these deaths is that they weigh on their migration policy, which, according to the textual words of their Secretary of State for Transport in the budgets of 2021, is broad, ambitious, a European policy which this ministry does and fulfils its role. These words are before they cut off his head and changed him to another secretary. Did they not want the Spaniards to know that the massive arrival of illegal immigrants is part of their broad and ambitious immigration policy? For once we got a member of the government to tell the truth, they took him out of the way. They've got a lot to hide. Infrastructure. You are very proud of the budget earmarked for infrastructure, but then we find unexecuted items, delay in corridors and lack of momentum and connection between the train and the ports. Aid for regular air transport in the Canary Islands - I am finishing - is reduced by 11 million and also by 2.5 million for the Directorate-General of the Merchant Navy for subsidies to maritime transport for non- peninsular residents. And what about your housing policy? Demagogy of immature reactionaries. They are unable to draw a single housing plan, neither the one of 20,000 nor the one of 100,000, dynamit any possibility of others doing so and want to limit rental prices, and now we come with bonds to buy votes and a law for the right to housing, which far from solving the problem of housing offer has already caused - the preliminary draft - the withdrawal of real estate by the owners and the rise of prices. Failure after failure. More legal certainty, less encouraging occupation, less interventionism, and you will see how the supply increases. The worst is that they are like ants, because each exercise that goes on increases the matches for their chiringuitos and for their high positions, but they reduce the aids to transport and families. So every year you spend in government the Spaniards will be a little poorer, while you will be a little richer. Go and let Spain prosper. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause by the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, on the ground]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u129	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, Mrs Bravo Barco has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u130	Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing the General State Budgets of Section 17, that is, the actions carried out by the Ministry of Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda, budgets that mobilise more than EUR 19 billion, of which EUR 16 286 million are devoted to investment, representing a 17% increase over the current ones and also double the last budgets of the People's Party. Ladies and gentlemen, budgets are the norm in which the political priorities of a government are best reflected. Budgets are numbers and, therefore, are neither malleable nor susceptible to rhetorical justifications nor can they be twisted with impossible arguments. The numbers are what they are, numbers, and those of the 2022 State General Budgets speak very clearly about the different priorities between a progressive government and a right-wing government. To highlight three items, including many of this section 17, that exemplify it. While in road conservation the last budgets of the People's Party budgeted 786 million, which we are debating today budget 1371 million. While in railways the last budgets of the People's Party have budgeted 4310 million, those that we are debating today budget 6700 million, 46 % more, an increase that focuses mainly on the network of closenesses, which is the one that most affects the citizens and which was so degraded and despised by the governments of the People's Party. And while in housing the last budgets of the People's Party budgeted 481 million those we are debating today budget 3290 million. And this is the truth: People's Party, 481 million; Progressive government, 3290 million, an increase of 592%. [[applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, this last item, housing, is particularly strong, and for the Socialist Parliamentary Group it exemplifies what these general state budgets are like. As the Government has said on numerous occasions, these are the budgets of recovery, because they are budgets that are designed to emerge from one of the greatest crises that mankind has experienced in recent times. And as our President of the Government usually points out, there are two ways out of a crisis. One way is that of the right, which we already know because it was the one that starred their governments from 2012 to 2017 using public money to rescue broken toll roads, cutting it conservation of the rest of the roads, accumulating a deficit of up to 7 billion euros, which we are now reversing and we will continue to do without demagoguery, because we play human lives, as well as using public money to rescue the banks while cutting on conventional trains and nearby trains, which are the most needed by citizens. And in terms of housing, even worse, because the cuts in the housing budget were added to nothing more and nothing less than the sale to the investment funds of the scarce public housing park they had left. The socialist formula that is driving this government is very different, they do not like it, and they are therefore going to vote against these budgets. They do not like to increase the public housing park, nor to build a social shield or promote rehabilitation or work, ultimately, for a decent and affordable housing for all. They are even less pleased that all this is accompanied by the greatest investment in history that the State has ever made in developing the right to housing, recognized in article 47 of the Constitution. It is 3290 million, despite who weighs it, because - I will say it loud and clear - this is the legislature for the right to housing. [[Applauds]] They also don't like the youth housing bonus, and it's no surprise, because the first thing you did when you came to the government in 2012 was to eliminate the basic income of emancipation. And they do not like it, in short, to invest in the well-being of citizens, in housing, in mobility, in infrastructure, in transport. They don't like it. They do not like to see 55 % increase in investment in the network of proximity and conventional trains or to triple what you will invest. They don't like it. Ladies and gentlemen, you have tabled hundreds of amendments without tone and are not promising everything you have not done before or are doing now where you are ruling, or what you would do in the future if you went back to the government. They are amendments tabled without any rigour or basis, because why they will be rigorous if they know perfectly well that they would never comply with what they propose if they were in the Government. On the other hand, they have been defaming the government on account of the budgets for weeks, claiming, without any basis, that they will not be executed, with manipulated data, as they have done here today in the rostrum And you say it, those who in the period from 2012 to 2017 left without executing anything less than 12,461 million, which is equivalent to a full budget exercise. [[rumors]] [[Applauds]] I conclude, ladies and gentlemen. Socialists support the budgets of section 17 because they consolidate recovery, boost employment, are sustainable, fight exclusion, bet on rehabilitation, contribute to access to decent and affordable housing, especially for our young people, and will also promote daily mobility and proximity. In short, we support these budgets because they are good for the country and for its citizens. We encourage the set of groups to do the same. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u131	Thank you so much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Section 18, Education and Vocational Training We continue with the debate in Section 18, Ministry of Education and Vocational Training. For the section presentation, I have the floor on behalf of the Government, the Minister for Education and Vocational Training.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u132	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I compare myself in this House to report on the draft budgets of the Ministry of Education and Vocational Training for the financial year 2022 and, in addition, I am proud to say that it is the highest budget that the Ministry of Education and Vocational Training has ever had, which certifies the firm commitment of the Government of Spain to education and vocational training as fundamental pillars of a fairer, more cohesive and better-formed society, which is the same as saying that a freer society. Also, of course, they are budgets that will be an indispensable lever to support the recovery and transformation of our economy towards goals of greater sustainability, digitisation, added value and more and better employment, especially with our young people in mind. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no shortage of effort in our country's education, and what is lacking is more resources, and that is why, from the first day, the Spanish Government is providing it with sufficient means to improve its quality and make it accessible to all and for all, regardless of their income or family origin. The total amount allocated by the draft State General Budgets to the Ministry of Education and Vocational Training for the first time in our history exceeds EUR 6 billion, exactly EUR 6036 million. This represents an increase of 5.96% over the year 2021. It should be noted that, while the funds of the Recovery Mechanism, in particular EUR 1653 million, will account for a significant part of this budget, national funding amounts to EUR 4383 million, i.e. an increase of 14%, further demonstrating the Government's strong commitment to improving the education system. This budget that I present to you today will allow us in 2022 to continue to work and drive with determination the objectives of the ministry for the legislature. Firstly, the improvement of the quality, equity and equal opportunities of our education system. The EUR 2684 million allocated under this heading represents around 44% of the total budget. Secondly, the enhancement of vocational training in the education system and training for employment. EUR 2299 million, i.e. 38% of the budget, will be allocated to this objective. And the third priority is the digitization of our education system. To this end, EUR 477 million will be allocated, representing 7.9% of the total. Obviously, the planning and implementation of these investments will be largely done with the Autonomous Communities through the various territorial cooperation programmes. Moreover, as your ladies and gentlemen know, since the beginning of this pandemic, the Spanish Government has also been at the side of the autonomy in this crisis, with an extraordinary economic endowment. In 2020, we have allocated slightly more than EUR 16.5 billion, 2000 of which are dedicated solely and exclusively to education, and this year we have also allocated more than EUR 13.5 billion to communities to safeguard public services, including education. You will understand that, even if it is not the subject of this budget, you will also take advantage of this small intervention to thank once again for the enormous and exemplary effort that the whole educational community is making to deal with the pandemic. [[Applauds]] I will detail below the main specific expenditure programmes planned for the next financial year. As you know, the Ministry's activities now include three spending policies: education policy, employment promotion policy, foreign policy and development cooperation. In the latter field, educational action abroad, although less well known, represents a valuable activity for the dissemination of Spanish culture, education and language. It will have 123 million euros by 2022. Within education policy, programmes designed to promote as much equity as possible are an undisputed priority; equity to make it possible for all to access the highest level of training without being affected by economic, social, access or learning barriers. To this end, we focus on scholarship policies, inclusion policies, and on continuing to take measures to reduce early school leaving. The policy of scholarships and study grants, as a fundamental tool for ensuring educational equity, has been a priority for this Government, as it shows that the resources devoted to scholarships have increased by 44% over four years. Of the €1493 million of the 2017 budget year, we will spend in the year 2022 to €2149 million. This means that almost a million families, 986,000 students, will benefit from a scholarship with the current call; and that is 200,000 more young people, as I say, than in the call for 2017. It is a record investment aimed at covering the entry of new beneficiaries as a result of the pandemic crisis. I would also like to emphasise the EUR 50 million earmarked for the aid of textbooks. Education inclusion policies highlight a new territorial cooperation programme, with €43 million, aimed at significantly increasing the resources and means to make progress in improving the care of pupils with special educational needs. Also, between the actions aimed at equity and the quality of our education system, next year will have a relevant role several programs included in the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan, with a total of 494 million euros. I would like to highlight the EUR 334 million earmarked for the creation of 21 794 public child education places, mainly for children of one and two years of age, because it is a measure that translates very directly into real equality; a measure that will allow the creation of public and free places that will allow many families not to have to leave their professional career because they cannot cope with the expenditure of a day care centre. Or the implementation of 2500 centers of the PROA program, endowed with 120 million euros. And, on the other hand, the creation of at least a thousand units of personal and family support and guidance of the student's educationally vulnerable, with 39 million euros. In the field of vocational training, as I have already told you - and you know it perfectly well, as the organic law on vocational training is being dealt with in this House - the Government has identified as one of its priorities in the legislature the promotion and modernisation of vocational training. The total budget for 2022 in vocational training amounts to EUR 2299.1 million, with an increase of EUR 660 million over the previous year. The main action programmes will be the boost and improvement of vocational training in the education system, with 275.4 million euros; programmes associated with the Modernisation of Vocational Training Plan, with a total of 872.3 million euros; or digital transformation, which will be financed with 232.6 million euros. I would like to stress that among all these actions, in addition, there is a small programme in economic amount, with 3 million euros, but with a great social impact, such as the Mentor Classrooms; in 2022, we planned to open at least 750 new classes of this type. And the third major pillar of vocational training activities in this budget is training for employment, both for the employed and the unemployed, with EUR 1151.2 million. The planned investments in vocational training in 2022 will enable, among other objectives, the creation of 50,485 new vocational training places within the project of those 200,000 to which we have committed ourselves over the next four years, the creation or conversion of 700 groups into bilinguals, the creation of 221 new technology classrooms, the launch of 450 entrepreneurship classrooms and digital training for at least 125,000 workers. The third line of action of this ministry focuses on the digitization of the education system. Ladies and gentlemen, you know very well that as a result of this pandemic, our capacities and also our lack of resources for non-personal education have been tested. Thanks to European funding, we have been able to give great impetus to the digitisation of education in Spain. By 2022, the budget will be EUR 284 million with the aim of strengthening above all digital skills and educational resources. In addition, the specific digitisation items for vocational training should be added to this figure, so that the total amount of resources earmarked for digitisation of our education system will exceed EUR 477 million. I would also like to mention, ladies and gentlemen, the budget estimates for Ceuta and Melilla, autonomous cities where educational management is carried out directly by this ministry. Educational management in both autonomous cities, which affects several budget programmes, includes a budget of EUR 186.7 million. I'm concluding, ladies and gentlemen. The year 2021 and the year 2022 will represent, if this budget comes forward in the terms proposed, a historical milestone of investment in our educational system for its modernization and a budgetary effort that is allowing us to face the main challenges that our educational system has: school dropout, inequality, economic segregation or the lack of qualification of professionals that our productive fabric needs. We are doing this with rules but also with investments. This Government fulfils its word and has clear priorities: to strengthen public services, to ensure equality and to promote the modernization of the economy and the productive fabric in order to have quality jobs. Ladies and gentlemen, having different positions on the educational model in our country is not incompatible with recognising the social value of the very significant improvements that this budget makes in terms of scholarships, in terms of digitisation, in terms of educational reinforcement for those who need it most, in terms of inclusion or in deep and renewed vocational training. Therefore, I invite you to join in this process of improvement to build that climate of trust and understanding that the educational community is waiting for, and therefore request your support for these budgets for the year 2022. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u133	In defence of amendments, Mr Sayas López has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u134	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Madam Minister, you have come up to this rostrum by drawing attention to the fact that these budgets are going to be the ones that are going to invest the most money in education and I say that it is useless to invest the most resources in education while the government is devoting itself to education in ignorance. It will be rather unproductive to make an economic effort in scholarships, places for training, for children's education or in vocational training as long as the Government is degrading education to the level at which it has done so, removing absolutely the value of the titles and allowing them to pass the course having suspended, as if they had approved. I do not know if the Government does not realise that Spain has a serious problem in the field of education, Minister, a serious problem in the field of education. It is that we are the head of Europe in school failure; that we have 40% of school failure; that one in three young people in this country suspends subjects at the end of the course. And what does the government propose? Instead of making an educational reform that improves quality to help students achieve the goals, what it does is to lower the goals so that all students achieve the title and, as everyone has titles, the school failure is over. But do you want to have a more prepared youth or do you want it directly upset, Minister? Because it seems that their educational policies are achieving absolutely losing the quality of education and not getting a better education and youth, which is what Spain needs in the future. Therefore, if you really want to defend education, it would be good for you to stop damaging it, because it is very difficult to defend education when what is being done is to allow yourself to pass the course with suspensions, to change the equal opportunities for a mediocre egalitarianism, to destroy Spanish, to attack educational freedom and now to introduce gender bias in the teaching of science and mathematics. I don't know if you really think that's how you can improve education. What I believe is that with all these reforms that the Spanish Government is doing, it is not going to have only a problem of school failure, Spain is going to have a serious problem of the future, because education is what guarantees us the future of Spain, because talking about education is talking about the future, Minister. These budgets are directly an attack on young people, an attack on their opportunities, because we have the highest unemployment rate in the whole of the European Union. It is a shameful rate, it is an unacceptable rate and cannot be justified in any way, but it is that at the same time we have a failure rate at the head of the European Union too, equally shameful and equally unjustifiable. This is not done by giving young people checks to buy video games, this is done by giving young people opportunities in education and employment, because young people want opportunities from the government, not childish paternalism, which is what this government is doing to them. I no longer know whether you are directly betting on a subsidized, demotivated, submissive and abhorrent youth, when what Spain needs is a better prepared youth every day, who can compete in the world, with the highest capacities; that is what is expected of the government. Madam Minister, on the other hand, I have been very drawn to the attention that when you talk about the foreign policy of the Ministry of Education you say that you are going to defend Spanish in the world. It would be very convenient for you to start by defending it in Spain, because all you have done is attack Spanish with educational laws. Look, do you know what your government partners have done, the ones who have agreed with you, the people of Bildu and the people of Esquerra? They have both asked for the same thing: questions to introduce languages - in one case Basque and in another Catalan - in a mandatory way in different communities. Bildu has done it in Navarre, through which it can be seen in the ETB3, which is children's programming, and Esquerra does it so that platforms like Netflix have to have a mandatory quota of production in Catalan. But the problem is not that it is asked by nationalism, the problem is that socialism is giving it to it. That is the problem we have in Spain, because nationalism has a goal, which is to use language as a weapon of national construction. They do not want to defend the language as a cultural or communication element; they do not want every citizen to speak the language he wants, no. They want languages to have compulsory customers, because it is their way of building more nationalism and to that more nationalism it is to what are contributing all the educational laws that the Socialist Party has done and, of course, it is to what these budgets also contribute. It's over, Minister. You've also taken breasts out of kindergartens from zero to three years, and I think it's fine, but they're way below what you promised. You were talking about the universalisation of education from 0 to 3 and for that you are not going to create even 10% of the places promised throughout the legislature, so you think of many more measures when you are in opposition than when you arrive at the government. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u135	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Giménez Giménez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u136	Thank you, President. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are addressing one of the most important issues, the approach to the fundamental right to education. Ensuring with sufficient means and with adequate quality is one of the main tools to promote equal opportunities for all. Ladies and gentlemen, we need to be aware that education is the social lift for the most vulnerable children. Public education, high-quality, demanding and ambitious concerted education is essential for the children of families with fewer resources to compete on an equal footing with the rest. Equality of opportunity is the fundamental pillar for liberals, because only with education, only with human training, only with it, can we gain access to decent employment. The person is free to choose when his/her life project is guaranteed by good education. Where there is no solid education, circumstances are imposed, and it is external actors who decide for us. Therefore, we consider that it is a matter that should come out of the circus show that we usually witness in which every time a party changes the educational law; every time a party changes, it is decided to eliminate or erase everything that the previous party has done. For this reason, in Citizens we want to insist on the need for a state pact for education. Ladies and gentlemen, not for a legislature, but for a whole generation. Society, young people, our families, deserve a serious and quality education, a stable education that does not give way to political changes that only violate the guarantee of the right to education. It is discouraging for Spanish families to see that a subject as relevant as the education of their children is used as a bold weapon by the government in turn against the opposition in turn. Families are concerned that their children are well prepared, having received quality education; they are concerned that they have sufficient education to compete in a labour market; they are concerned about the level of language with which their children end up and the difference they have with young Europeans. They also want all children to enjoy equal educational opportunities. They want it to be inclusive education, so that children with fewer resources don't stay behind. They are concerned that equality is not respected, for example in selectivity, which causes large territorial differences. They are concerned about how young people who complete their studies will continue their professional development if they have work options. These are the concerns of families. If we do not guarantee quality and equity in education, if we only focus from one point or another and do not bring the two together, it will be an unequal and harmful approach for all. I repeat, for everyone, because education is not a savvy one who can, because a poorly formed society ends up passing bills on to all citizens. What is the context we have in our country? Spain is the second country in the European Union with the worst figures in early school leaving, according to the latest Eurostat report on this subject. By 2020, 16% of Spanish youth between the ages of 18 and 24 had not completed high school. According to the Spanish Federation of Language Education Centres, 46 per cent of people of working age do not know any foreign language. In Europe this percentage is 35%. Spain is, together with Hungary and Romania, the least polyglot. On the other hand, in the latest global report by the company Education First 2020, which ranks English-speaking countries by their level of English, Spain is also in line. This is our context with an element as fundamental as education is and that, moreover, we can then link it to the possibilities of work. For all the above, it is incomprehensible that the Seneca scholarships, our amendment 110, have been vetoed to provide 400 euros a month for students who participate in the exchange program between university centers in Spain, a program that facilitates mobility between one campus and another of the whole Spanish territory. Similarly, that the injustice of unremunerated practices in the Vives programme, amendment 296 by the citizens, should not be eliminated; that they veto the reinforcement of the High Inspectorate of Education, amendment 78, which for years PP and PSOE have refused to implement. For what? To ensure neutral and free educational content without ideology. Free education is absolutely necessary to ensure equality. I say that it is incomprehensible, but we are not surprised that these budgets have been drawn up thinking of Otegi, Rufián and Podemos and not of the education of the boys and girls of Spain. On the other hand, neither have our amendments 178 and 179, which speak of the increase in the budget in individualized tutoring as an effective element in combating high school failure, as well as teacher training, which is vital, amendment 177. It is vital to train teachers in both languages and how to deal with the diversity and the very school failure they face in classrooms. They also do not like the idea, and therefore they do not support it, of an independent educational evaluation agency, because really, if we do not evaluate education, if there are a number of budget headings, as the Minister has just told us, and the effects that they have are not evaluated, if the PROA Plus is increased, but then it turns out that the ratios of school failure do not improve, it will really have been a policy that is not efficient. What is needed? Evaluation. That is why we believe that an independent educational evaluation agency is important. Nor do we want to try initiatives such as those we propose to address something that is vital, which is school segregation, our amendment 180, to look for some actions that facilitate collaboration between centres of excellence and high-complexity schools. We believe that all this deserves not to support this proposal that has been made to us, because we believe in educational equality. We have made a lot of proposals that mean an improvement in our education system, that mean an impetus for educational equality, so I regret that the Government takes a short look, that it leaves and rejects them. The veto of course is the language of those who have no arguments. Our society deserves something better than its educational balance policy and its veto policy is no no. We played a lot.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u137	Your Honor, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u138	I'm on my way. Therefore, I implore you to stop snorting and to stop doing politics with the education of our children. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u139	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Errejón Galván has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u140	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. I have not had the opportunity to speak yet in this session, so allow me to say my first words for something very important that is happening right now and in front of which we cannot look elsewhere. Today is the eighth day of the general strike of the metal workers in Cadiz, who are demanding just causes, they are demanding that the agreement be respected, that the pluses not be lowered, that the agreements be complied with, that they not go back to their working conditions. These workers are right and need to know, moreover, that they are not alone. There are a lot of workers all over Spain who are sick of contempt, who are sick of seeing their bosses skip the rules, which these days are getting excited when they see the courage of the Cadiz workers. That also carries a message to the Government: the Government is wrong. I'm afraid the image of the tank in the workers' quarters of Cadiz will accompany you during what's left of the legislature. This is an image that the People's Party government could afford, but this is an image that you cannot afford. This is an image that constitutes a huge mistake that we can pay very dearly. That is why I have to demand that the repression cease, that they promote dialogue with the workers, and that when they come down to Cadiz and Andalusia they do not do so with tanks and rubber balls, that they do so with a reindustrialisation plan and with a workload. Madam Minister, this chapter is to talk about education, and I come to defend a specific amendment, which we have negotiated with you, which refers to a specific chapter in relation to education, to a particular issue which is not usually much talked about, is the relationship between what happens in the study centres and mental health, in particular of the younger ones. Being young in Spain is practically belonging to a risk group, and it is belonging to a risk group because there are two generations who have only known the crises, have concatenated a crisis with the following; it is belonging to a risk group because there are no expectations and they see the future blocked and because all they see on the horizon is uncertainty, insecurity and precariousness; and it is belonging to a risk group because, in addition to this horizon of uncertainty, they have to endure a kind of speech like Mister Wonderful that tells you permanently that you can get everything you want in life and everything you propose, and if you don't get it, it isolates you, individualizes you and tells you that it is your fault for not having done it. This dramatic situation with mental health in Spain has consequences, which is a dramatic situation with mental health, in particular, of the youngest in Spain. Because uncertainty, anxiety, and precariousness do a lot of damage. The situation was already dramatic before the pandemic, but the pandemic has aggravated it, multiplied it and chronicled it. We were relatively lucky that the pandemic spreads less to young people, affects less to young people, and so they came out of the map of political priorities. But during the pandemic the young people did get sick, they got sick massively, they just didn't do it as COVID, they got sick of a set of psychic ailments that today have become a real tsunami in our country. Food disorders in Spain have increased by 20% only since the pandemic, seven out of ten young people say they suffer anxiety - seven out of ten -, suicide attempts today among Spanish youth have increased to 250% more, according to only the figures we know. We're talking about very concrete things, cases that I'm sure you're familiar with. They are boys and girls who, after eating, vomit because they can't stand their body and they don't recognize themselves in the images they see on Instagram; they're people who are panicking about going to school because they're bullied and because they're scared every day; or they're people at the extreme who want to take their lives to stop suffering. This suffering can affect everyone in Spain, all the young people, and we have made a big mistake in normalizing, giving it as something usual that is part of the landscape. Life wouldn't have to hurt that many. But, although suffering can pass on to all, the ways of reacting or palliing are not within everyone's reach. In schools and in the most expensive institutes, young people have sufficient guidance to take care of classes, with a sufficient ratio to take care of them. They have enough psychologists, they have training and time for teachers to detect early problems and they can still be helped. But if their families take them to public school, it turns out that what they are going to find are outdated professionals, magnificent professionals who don't give time, who simply have too much ratio, or who don't have the resources or time to deal with the problems of youth, the kids around them. Many people say that this is such a big problem that there is no need to politicize, but this is a radically political fact; it is a political distribution of pain. Mental health can happen to everyone, to everyone it can hurt, but there are some that when it hurts they can ask for help, and there are others that when it hurts them, simply and plainly, they have to endure and they have to be annoyed. We have negotiated with you an amendment to strengthen the first line of action against this mental health pandemic among the youngest population. Half a year ago we opened a debate in Spain and since then mental health has become fashionable in newspapers, on radios, on televisions, artists say, social networks are filled, other political forces say. That's okay, but it's not the way. That's half the way, the other half of the truck that we make it a national priority, that we make it a priority in our public policies. We, in More Country-Greens Equo, have decided to persevere and insist, and we will continue to insist. We have agreed with you - and it is a pride - that the allocation for the National Mental Health Strategy for schools should be increased by up to 25%, that there should be more guidance in schools, that teachers should have more training to detect problems early, that there should be more psychologists available for boys and girls. This is a reason for pride, but I do not hide anything if I say that this is not enough; we need the Government to take it as a priority. And there are positive examples in Spain: when Spain was raised as a true national crusade, as a priority, as the country's main objective to reduce road deaths and the state took the lead and there were awareness campaigns and collaboration between administrations, we achieved it and drastically reduced road deaths; when Spain proposed that we were a leading country in organ transplantation there was collaboration between administrations, there was a lot of money spent, there was a lot of public investment, there was a lot of public bet and we did it, today we are a leading country in organ transplantation. What we tell them is that the Government takes on the challenge of national mental health priority, puts itself at the forefront of an ambitious, well-funded public strategy, throws at it the political will it needs, which they already know will always find us there. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u141	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, I have the floor, Mrs Moneo Diez.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u142	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the People's Parliamentary Group is going to vote not on the most perverse instrument at the service of dismantling the Spanish educational system, reducing its quality, breaking up equity and, above all, overstepping the principles laid down in the 1978 Constitution. No, ladies and gentlemen, this group cannot and will not be complicit in giving wings to a budget that responds to the darkest interests, designed to design an educational model based on the expulsion of the quality of the system, the inclusion of ideology in the classroom and the transfer of State competences to its separatist partners. No, ladies and gentlemen, the debate on budgets is not a mere parliamentary process, as some people claim to believe, where a large volume of figures are scattered in this case, moreover, by the resources coming from the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan; it is the skeleton that allows us to visualize without disguise the real intentions of the Government in designing each and every one of its parts. That is why this budget not only denotes the lack of priorities and forecasts, incapable, as their policies are, of responding to the challenges and challenges facing the most successful education systems, and where our country should be, but also imposes a clear ideological bias at the service of the only thing that interests you, which is the existence of a unique, public and secular model. Yes, Minister, behind the pretty words of that appeal to lower the decibels of the educational debate or, in other words, to try to silence the opposition, you have taken the first steps to achieve the uniformity of the model. Its defence of a public system, exclusively public, in which it can already be considered the first stage of education up to the age of three, and the veto - yes, the veto - to the amendments of the People's Group so that families can choose the children's school in which to school their children with complete freedom, clearly demonstrate that their only desire is to draw from the first stages the path that, sooner or later, can end educational freedoms. They care little about the more than fifty thousand professionals who so far work in them, little or nothing about the possibility that this children's school, until the moment of private ownership, could be hosted by the concert or convention regime, thus ensuring that families are fully free and that professionals are employed. They don't even want to talk about it, they don't even want to talk about the direct support to families that have made so much effort to achieve a school place in a children's school, because their only language is to ban, their only language is to veto. Therefore, they have also banned, vetoed all measures that guarantee equal opportunities for all Spanish pupils to live where they live and go to the centre to which they come, the State, which has the right and duty to comply with articles 27 and 149 of the Constitution, guarantees them the principle of equity. The Interterritorial Cohesion Fund proposed by the People's Party was vetoed. In the past budgets they voted no, in these they do not even let us vote; it is noted that the demands of their partners are increasing. Strengthening the High Educational Inspectorate, vetoed. That you do not have the slightest intention of extending and strengthening the powers of the High Inspectorate is a fact, perhaps because the first thing that would allow us to do is to act against those who flagrantly fail to guarantee the equality of all Spaniards in the exercise of their rights and duties in the field of education, starting with the use of Spanish in the classrooms as a vehicle language. [[A Member of Parliament: Very well!]] By the way, both amendments have been vetoed with a report from the Bureau of Budgets, which in both cases points out that the government's veto exceeds the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of this House. Do you want to tell me what this is called, Minister? We are debating in this House the new law on vocational training and have also vetoed, they have prevented an amendment to be voted on to provide a system of training grants to strengthen dual vocational training; also, of course, against the Bureau's report. So do they intend to reach agreements with the main opposition party or are we faced with a calculated marketing operation that seeks other purposes? And what about the professorship, because I have not heard you refer, Minister, to the teachers. How much money do these budgets envisage for the implementation of a new model of selection, training and professional career teaching? You yourself said here in Parliament that in January you would present a new system of training, access and professional careers. Where are the resources to boost it? I'm telling you, not a single euro. At least support the amendment of the People's Parliamentary Group that envisages 50 million euros to promote the fundamental, which is the teaching career, the teaching career of a teacher who is the critical element for the quality of the system. I finish, Minister, with special education. I ask you not to confuse or mislead, the one you say you don't pursue Lomlou and that you took care of going to Baleares to sell at a special education center. Look, I must tell you that the education inclusion programme and its €43 million, its memory - the memory of the objectives of these budgets - says that it is intended exclusively for the availability of specialized resources in ordinary centres, not in special education centres, but in ordinary centres. So, minister, let's get rid of the face. That is why, from here, I ask you not to come and describe a passage by Alicia in Wonderland because, after approving this budget, none of her measures will contribute to improving the whole system, none of her measures will contribute to improving the quality, freedom, excellence of the faculty. Moreover, thanks to you it will be worse in quality, freedom and equal opportunities; it will cruelly strike the weakest, the most supportive; it will break territorial and social cohesion and lead, especially to public school - which you claim to be so defending - to the most absolute of failures. Thank you very much. [[Applauds.-A honourable Member: Very well!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u143	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Mena Arca has the floor in position-setting by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u144	Good afternoon, President. Good afternoon, Minister. With the People's Party, a law on retrograde, re-centralizing and mercantile education was passed, with the roll of its absolute majority and with four strikes by the educational community. [[Applauds]] With the coalition government, a law has been passed with the support of up to seven different political groups in this Congress. With the PP nearly 50,000 education professionals were fired. With the coalition government, up to €1600 million has been made available to the autonomous communities, which have allowed for the hiring of more COVID reinforcements. With the PP the scholarships ceased to be a right and a scholarship system was imposed that hurt 200,000 families. With the coalition government, the scholarships are increased by 44% and we reach 2150 million euros in scholarships. With the PP the official languages of Spain were expelled from our educational system. With the coalition government, what we have done is to shield multilingual Spain, which works, for example, with the model of linguistic immersion in Catalonia, because you speak a lot about language, you say a lot about constitutionalism, but you always forget article 3 of the Constitution, which says what it says and that has to be reflected in the educational laws and all the laws of this country. Therefore, gentlemen of the PP, the management of one crisis: the financial crisis; and that of another: that of the VOCID-19 pandemic, do not stand any comparison. The People's Party managed it with cuts, impositions and the elimination of rights. The coalition government is managing it with more investment in public policies, with dialogue and extending rights to those most in need. While this coalition government pushes policies that land positively in people's lives, what the right people do - and we have seen it - is to devote themselves to their own obsessions, to their parental vetoes, to their persecution of the official languages of the autonomous communities, to defaming by saying that Lomlou closes special education schools or to talking about the freedom of choice of families - that is, of rich families, who seem to be the only ones who have the chance to decide in this country -. Let us, Minister, follow the right hand with your obsessions, we have to go to our own, to continue improving public education in this country; precisely because the cuts of the PP were gnawed, especially in the public school, which is the one that cohesives us all. With these budgets we increase educational investment by 14% and, together with European funds, we will move from EUR 6 billion in public education policies. That had never happened in this country before. We are therefore clearly faced with a change in the economic paradigm in Spain, and also in Europe, and we have left behind the policies of austerity against public services. It can never happen again that public education, health care or pensions are the ones that pay the duck for its cut-off policies and its corruption policy, as has happened in recent times. What we are asking of you, Minister, is that this change in economic paradigm also means a change in educational paradigm, that we are able to address the educational transformation that this country needs, which is already essential. There are five important measures, Madam Minister. The first is to ensure the deployment of 0-3 education, which is an educational stage. This is reflected in the budgets with the creation of more than 60,000 public places from 0 to 3. The second, progressive expansion of public places in all stages of education, because Lomlou also says so. The third, a reduction in ratios, is the commitment to inclusive education and, also, to individualized care in our education system. The fourth, an inclusion plan, is budgeted with more than 43 million euros, and must allow the school to truly be the school of all, of all and for all. And the fifth, to bet on the formation in values, to incorporate elements LGTB, of democratic memory, of sustainability, of fair taxation in the educational curriculum. It should also be accompanied by teacher training and other professional profiles that interact within the classroom with the student. In short, we have done our duties in two areas: we have a new law that designs this transformation of our educational system, and we will have new expansionary budgets that will guarantee the investments necessary for that law to be a reality. Now we just need to confirm that what we have agreed, what we have agreed, what we have budgeted will end up fulfilling and I ended up landing in the classrooms of our schools. You began, Minister, by thanking the educational community for its efforts in recent years of management of COVID in the classrooms. Evidently we, from Unidad Podemos and In Comú Podemos, join in that thank you and we are also clear that the best way to thank you is by shielding public education, guaranteeing sufficient resources and strengthening the working conditions of all educational staff, for example, also of civil servants who have been at the foot of the canyon during the management of the COVID, because there is nothing more transformative than education. Let us, Minister, make these budgets the engine of change that our educational system also needs. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u145	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Trias Gil has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u146	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. We are going to discuss the moral ruin budgets, those of Section 18 for Education; an unprecedented waste that will of course not make education the social lift that will enable young Spaniards to achieve their goals, without their social or economic conditions being an impediment. They are budgets that implement Lomlou and therefore consolidate the deficiency in education that Spain has been dragging for years. They accentuate the inequality between autonomy, among those who choose Spanish as their mother tongue and those who do not, the low-level equality and the evaluation without valuing and enhancing the effort, and hinder the concerted, differentiated and special education. They denigrate excellence, merit and capacity, demotivating the student, and promote the destructive ideological manipulation of children with education based on the budgets of gender theories. Education, ladies and gentlemen, is the heart of society and is the key element of a nation's prosperity, the pillar on which its future is based, and therefore cannot be based on spurious, sectarian and destructive theories such as gender. [[Applauds]] Even vocational training, the development of which is absolutely necessary in Spain and for which more than EUR 1.5 million is allocated, is stunned by this ideology. Here we read things like this: to review the catalogue of vocational qualifications from a gender perspective; to incorporate a gender perspective as a competence in qualifications. And so an endless list of goals to be met. In short, pure social engineering in the educational field. The Ministry of Education itself has proudly classified the 23 budget programmes in which it participates as gender sensitive. But the Spaniards must know what that means. One would think that it involves, for example, supporting boys, whose dropout rate is double female and in which we are unfortunately leaders in Europe. One would think that, since the schooling of women is much higher than that of men from the age of sixteen, the State would be studying this issue and developing policies to encourage the retention of boys in the education system. Well, no, ladies and gentlemen. What these budgets are about is to develop subjects, such as civic and ethical values, that resurrect the old subject of Education for Citizenship that so much social division caused. [[Applauds]] Or issues such as the suppression of sexist stereotypes in the education of children from 3 to 5 years old, as we see, for example, for Ceuta and Melilla, the cities directly dependent on the Government in the field of education. There, not content with having the education system saturated, largely because of the schooling of unaccompanied minors, and the highest dropout rate in all of Spain, now, in addition, they want to indoctrinate the little ones. A horror movie, ladies and gentlemen! And it is that these budgets leave behind those they claim to defend, the most humble, the most vulnerable and the most needy. [[Applauds]] Millions and millions of euros in countless games that do not project our students to the full development of their personality, as the Constitution says, but quite the contrary. Without education, without roots, without culture, without homeland and without defined identity, our young people will become puppets of the State. [[Applauds]] We knew it was going to happen, and it's already happening, the Lomlou is opening up and its devastating effects are crystallizing in the BOE and in these budgets. We saw it last week with the new evaluation decree that passes from course with suspensions and without recuperation exams. In the educational sphere, unfortunately, pointing to good and truth, to merit, to the value of effort, to work, has remained in the dream of the righteous. On the other hand, in the case of the Government of Spain, it is schizophrenic that aims, for example, in the programme of educational action abroad, to enhance the Spanish language and culture abroad, when the reality is that one third of the children in our nation cannot receive education in Spanish. This is extremely serious and they should devote many more resources to achieving the normative development of the High Inspectorate so that it can fulfil its task and can guarantee something that is elementary, the schooling in Spanish of Spanish children. [[Applauds]] And as time is limited, let's look at a game that the government announces in a drum and platter, together with its partners in Podemos, with all kinds of propaganda, EUR 670 million to create 64 000 places of public ownership of the first cycle of children's education, from 0 to 3 years. They say that they will create new jobs, but the question that needs to be asked is: how many jobs, mostly women, will they end up with? The Federations of Children's Schools point out from Andalusia that this measure endangers 15,000 jobs, almost every female employment, and the viability of more than 2,000 small and medium-sized enterprises. More than 1000 children's schools have already been closed in what goes on throughout Spain each year. A waste of EUR 670 million for 64 000 unnecessary places when we have more than 120 000 vacancies in existing children's schools. I repeat, 120 000 vacancies in existing children's schools. [[Applauds]] In fact, the National Federation of Children's Education Centres has offered its network of centres authorized to achieve free education for all families in the 0-3 year cycle. Where is the needs map that proves this need to create places? It simply does not exist because this measure is only propaganda. For our part, free child education has already been proposed through the school cheque, which, of course, you voted against. State interventionism, to which you are so proclivistic, limits the freedom of parents to choose the center in which to school their children, also in their first months and years of life. In this particular case, they do not even follow European standards which say that SMEs should be directly beneficiaries of European funds. Well, ladies and gentlemen, this project eliminates small and medium-sized enterprises engaged in child education. We oppose, therefore, these budgets of ideological cutting because they turn their backs on the real needs of Spanish students, because they promote mediocrity and despair...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u147	Your Honor, your time is up. Finish it.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u148	... and because they contribute to making young people weak in character and unable to take on the professional challenges of the future so uncertain that it awaits them. Thank you. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u149	Thank you. For the Socialist Group, Mrs Martínez Seijo has the floor. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u150	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, minister. Thank you, Mr. President. How hard it is to digest these magnificent education investor budgets to the right because, instead of being happy for Spanish education, it seems that the only thing they do is criticize, repeat those mantras to which we are accustomed, and to which they do not forget, and rejoice that education does not go as it should. But to the interventions of the right we are already accustomed and already know what there is, they cannot interpret the reality of these budgets, and it is that they are magnificent budgets; more than 6036 million euros, which is a historical record, by the way. If last year you increased by 139% compared to the last budgets you left, this year you are still increasing by 14% more. Therefore, we do not understand that position of the right in criticizing; of course, we cannot understand it because they are not interested in talking about these budgets, because they leave in evidence that heritage of their cuts and the educational model that you defend. I repeat that these are magnificent budgets that show that this government is fulfilling its word and fulfilling Spanish education. When you talk about all the mantras, I have to tell you that the only ones here who are permanently ideologicalizing education are you. Mrs. Trias is talking about an ideology, but a macho ideology. What do you want to defend in the education system, Your Honor? [[- Mrs. Trias Gil makes negative gestures.]] When you talk about indoctrination, it is you who talk about indoctrination, it is you who talk about parental pine with the complicity of the People's Party, it is you who are on the sidelines of what is being done in the rest of the countries of the European Union in education. [[Applauds]] It is that you are settled in the past, and instead of collaborating and helping to train and educate our young people in a competitive model, you do nothing, all you do is criticize and appeal to a false culture of effort, ladies and gentlemen. Do they not know that we have a third of students who have repeated in Spain? Are you not aware that education in Spain and repetition costs more than 3 million euros? Are they going to stand idly by or are they going to look to the future, to educational innovation and to work to strengthen the education system? [[Applauds]] All they do is question the professionalism of our teachers, who are the ones who evaluate, it is not this government that puts the notes at the end of the course. [[Several Members: No, no]] Therefore, it will be the teaching team that will have to decide whether a student is qualified to promote or to have to repeat, but here nobody gives anything because what they are doing is calling into question that our students make an effort, accusing them of that lack of effort, is that they are questioning that our students are striving to reach the maximum of their abilities. They've come to say we're upset with them. [[Several Members: Yes, yes]] But is that the right hand responsible? Is that the education you want for this country? Is that what you're defending? And you tell us about the culture of effort!You, the People's Party, that of Mr.Married, dare to talk about the effort? But what effort did Mr. Married make when he graduated and his master's degree? What effort did you make? [[Applauds]] [[Applauds.-Protests]] Faced with this, we govern with the autonomous communities listening and talking to everyone, distributing funds for territorial cooperation, not as you did, which as soon as you came to the Government with Mr Rajoy cut and ended all territorial cooperation programmes. Faced with this, we will create up to 65,000 public child education places, because that is our model, public education, because it is the one that guarantees the right to education for all and for all. Create, don't cut. Creating places does not mean ending jobs, Mrs Trias, but creating places precisely so that parents can reconcile. Therefore, we are making progress by creating, and not only in children's education: 200,000 new places of vocational training for our productive model, by digitizing and innovating the educational system, because we are going to extend digitalisation to the whole of Spanish education, to all and to all, creating interactive classrooms and also giving that training in digital skills for our teacher, what Mrs Moneo was talking about, but of course they forgot to equip when they were in government, cutting teacher training systematically. [[applause]] Here it is formed, and this is the commitment of the Government of Spain. And, of course, we do not forget the fairness, with 2150 million euros for scholarships and study aid; certainly, 600 million more than you predicted in your last budget, which will allow about a million students in this country to benefit from aid and no one is left behind. Look, I do understand that you don't like this budget, because, as I was telling you, it contrasts two models, the model of mantras and the model of educational cuts. Or do they no longer agree with the 2012 Royal Decree-Law on the rationalization of educational expenditure, which cut the Spanish education system by €9 billion, which increased the number of hours of schooling, and which increased the ratio to absolutely unusual levels? That is what we have already reversed and those figures are what we have already recovered for the whole educational system. But this year's budgets are not reduced to that, we are also talking about an educational inclusion program, Mrs Moneo, educational inclusion for all students, not just for those who are enrolled in special education. I do not know how we have to repeat it, we have told them thousands of times since special education centres are not going to be closed, that special education centres are going to continue to function for those pupils who really need them, but that there is an inclusive system, in which all pupils can be enrolled, and they have the right to ordinary education. [[applause]] And, of course, these budgets deepen and invest in a very special way in vocational training, with 1150 million for employment, more than 200 million for innovation and internationalisation and another 200 million for the modernisation of vocational training. These are figures, these are realities, these are facts, these are the justice budgets for education and recovery in Spain, because investing in education is investing in our young people, is investing in the future of this country. And that is why we defend these budgets with absolute pride and full satisfaction, because they are magnificent budgets for the whole of Spanish education. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u151	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Section 19, Ministry of Labour and Social Economy We continue with the debate in section 19, Ministry of Labour and Social Economy. The second Vice-President and Minister for Labour and Social Economy have the floor on behalf of the Government for the section's presentation. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u152	Good afternoon, President, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to begin by thanking your ladies and gentlemen for their contribution to the budgets that are already in this House, for the debate and for their contribution to enriching the general budgets of the 2022 state, in particular the parliamentary groups participating in this great country agreement, which goes far beyond this government. These budgets mean a decisive advance in the role that public authorities must play in the development of our country and the progress of our society. The leap produced in 2021 is consolidated, as you will see, in the year 2022. These budgets strengthen services and public investment as a lever for recovery and undertake significant transformations pending in our country. They are not limited to a moment of exception in the face of a crisis, they are a project for the future. Obviously, in a budget not only the amount, but the for what and, most importantly, the for whom. In the case of the consolidated budget of the Ministry of Labour and Social Economy we show the commitment to quality employment, decent work and the role that work must play in the fair recovery and modernization of our country. The main objective of the budgets presented to you today is to respond to these structural problems, while facing a just recovery after the worst global pandemic in a century, with the social and economic crisis it brought with it, and the data support our strategy. We have been reducing unemployment for eight consecutive months, accumulating a decline in unemployment of more than 752,000 people since February. Of the 3 617 000 people who were at ERTE in April 2020, 3,477,000 have already joined their jobs and fewer than 90,000 with ERTE in full-time suspension. If at the hardest time of the pandemic, in confinement, we reach 25% of the wage-earner population protected by an ERTE, it is now less than 1%. The Ministry of Labour and Social Economy will have a consolidated budget of EUR 30 142 million, certainly a high figure reflecting that employment is one of the central priorities of the Government of Spain. In comparative terms, it is 7.6% lower than last year's budget thanks to the positive evolution of employment, which reduces spending needs to meet public unemployment benefits, especially in the area of ERT. With this second budget of the legislature we definitely leave behind the austerity and cuts of the previous government and move in the opposite direction: more rights for citizens, better services and better public benefits, as well as a strong boost to economic activity and employment. Let me give a brief explanation of the figures and priorities for action in this budget. Firstly, the redesign and implementation of active employment policies is one of the backbones of our ministerial strategy, reaching the amount of EUR 6480 million, a very high figure, as you know, which consolidates the extraordinary increase of 35.6% we made last year. The new generation of active employment policies ensures the personalisation of services, focused both on individuals and on enterprises, with a view to strengthening the number of professionals. Modernisation of services implies incorporation into the digital age, increasing and making more accessible employment services and putting artificial intelligence at the service of work and employment in our country. We will better and better protect the unemployed by strengthening the coverage of the system, which in the 2022 financial year will have 22,093 million euros for public benefits. The lower need for ERTE benefits, as I have told you, makes it possible to reduce overall expenditure, but I must also tell you that in 2022 the resources for unemployment benefit will be increased by 5.47 %, precisely in anticipation of the reform of the welfare part of the protection system that we have incorporated into component 23. We will continue to significantly improve the level of protection for the most vulnerable by increasing the IPREM to 2.5%, with a budgetary impact of EUR 250 million, which will improve the level of benefit for more than one and a half million people. As you know, ladies and gentlemen, IPREM has been practically frozen since 2010. In fact, between 2010 and 2020 only EUR 5 was raised, and it is only that in these two budget years we have raised it by EUR 41. And just as we have raised the minimum wage, the increase in IPREM means raising the basic threshold for the benefits of those who need it most. If we do not turn our backs on precariousness and cuts, as I say to you, we reach out to our youth, because it will be the one that builds the recovery and reconstruction of our country, in short, that allows us also to address this crisis; I think it cannot be otherwise, it is our talent and our possibility. These budgets will enable progress to be made in appropriate labour integration policies, especially for women and young people. The tools are set out for innovative treatment of training processes, as you know, in alternation with work activity. Alongside the development of existing employment programmes, there is a strong commitment to the return of emigrant talent, as well as to young employment plans in research programmes. In particular, under component 23 we incorporated the Investigó, Tandem and First Employment Opportunity plans for young people. We do so because investing in training and talent remains the guarantee of employment and opportunities; in short, they are the best dike against inequality. The ministry has a very significant participation in the Plan of Reconstruction, Transformation and Resilience of the Spanish economy, in this case with an amount of 807.6 million euros in this year's budget to advance in an economic model based on quality employment. It is also very important that we have the autonomous communities, and that is why we will consolidate in the year 2022 the extraordinary increase in the amount of funds transferred to them, as was done in the past budget year, so that they can better develop their competences in active employment policies, advancing in a model of shared governance, in which, as you know, plays a relevant role the Sectoral Conference on Employment and Labour Affairs, and are amounts never known in Spanish democracy. We will strengthen the Labour and Social Security Inspectorate, the fundamental instrument to ensure compliance with the law, as you know, another institution cut off by the Government of the People's Party and which will have a budget that will reach almost 200 million euros, which will allow us to strengthen the capacity of action in the different categories of the inspection activity, ultimately complying with the strategic plan of the agency that we have presented these days. We are developing a labour inspection at the service of the social state, which is very important, understanding that it is one of the fundamental pillars of healthy, effective and decent labour relations, because, as we say, not only do we need good laws, but we need the laws to be enforced. We will also strengthen the Public Employment Service, increasing its Chapter 1 by 3.65%, in order to meet the needs of its staff, and we will also increase investment by 29.7% directly aimed at digitisation, with a special focus on European funds; a body which, as you know, was also strongly cut by the People's Party government. In the area of self-employment, we are going to deploy the National Self-Employment Impulse Strategy, developed in dialogue with the sector's entities. I have to tell you that it is on the way out and we have a budget increase of up to EUR 15 million. Similarly, we have and deploy the National Strategy for Social Economy 2021-2027, agreed as a road map for a sector that represents 10% of GDP and 12% of workers in our country, so that it can deploy its transformative potential for generating and distributing wealth. Moreover, as you already know, the 2022 budget will allow us to continue the scheme of protection of ERTs, the result of the social dialogue, until the end of February next year, but with the will of this Government to extend and maintain them whenever necessary. However, as you know, we are committed that from 1 January the ERTEs will be the structural response to changes in the economic cycle, that is to say, it is one of the major changes that are being made at the social dialogue table. These budgets go one step further. We are going to modernise and Europeanise our labour policies, and this is reflected in the mutual commitment between the European Union and the Government of Spain. We want to place work on the basis of a new social contract that promotes inclusive growth and shared prosperity, which is good for businesses and also for working people. And here I come back to the beginning: it matters the for what, and that is why we link the ongoing recovery to the pending transformations, opening up a horizon of prosperity for all and for all, and it matters the for whom, because this budget is designed to reach all households, especially those who need it most. One of the words you have spoken in this crisis is resilience. We have learned the importance of strengthening equality and public services for when they are wronged. These budgets promote equality between men and women, between young and old, between cities and the countryside, between those who have enough and, ultimately, those who need it. We rebuild the state of well-being for the twenty-first century, promote the modernization of the country and an inclusive and sustainable development, where wealth is distributed with justice and production and consumption are careful with our land. During the pandemic we were clear that we should all go out together and not leave anyone behind, now is the time for recovery to reach everyone. The effectiveness and justice of budgets are measured in the development and social progress they produce. It is the time to bet on the public to guarantee the protection and rights of all citizens, but it is also the time to promote a wealth creation that improves the lives of all families so that growth among all households and, ultimately, we have general budgets in favour of our country and our people. That is why I ask you to support them. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u153	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] In defence of amendments, Mr Gimeno has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u154	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we wanted to emphasise the second part of your ministry, social economy, because we believe that it is the part of the economy that, according to the law, gives primacy to people and the social purpose over capital, carries out activities that pursue the general, economic and social interest, takes care of internal solidarity and also maintains independence from the public authorities. The social economy is the paradigm for cooperatives, mutual societies, foundations, labour companies, integration companies, special employment centres, fishermen's confreres, processing agricultural societies and many other unique entities. In Teruel Existe we consider that these social economy entities can be very effective tools to implement activities where the private initiative of the company does not arrive, a tool to promote social cohesion in the territories and the reduction of territorial imbalances. It is therefore essential to encourage the creation of these types of entities in unpopulated areas, in order to create, above all, female employment in rural areas, without which it is impossible, indeed, to reverse depopulation. In this connection, we are working, for example, on Teruel's candidacy as the seat of the VIII EMES International Research Congress, which took place in October, among which are presentations and conclusions, which can be found guidelines for future lines of work. Similarly, a few months ago we promoted with his ministry that the city of Teruel display the capitality of the social economy during the year 2021, an achievement that must broaden the involvement of the social economy in the fight against depopulation following the motto of that edition, which was precisely 'To have social cohesion from the territory'. The impetus in the social economy can be cross-cutting in different sections of the budget. That is why, in our amendments, we have sought to promote the social economy in rural areas and areas that are unpopulated by means of employment programmes for rural women, by encouraging the creation of cooperatives. It is important that they have the possibility to adapt the days to their situation by means of reduced hours allowing family reconciliation and other activities. We have done so to promote environmental sustainability and, at the same time, to generate employment opportunities. It is therefore important to retain and settle young people in rural areas through economic activities such as traditional beekeeping, traditional crops of gourmet products such as saffron, environmental care and mountain cleaning, firefighting and the use of wood and plant material. There is also a need to create specific training plans in production, integration and marketing. [[The lady]] In that connection, we have tabled amendments that seek to apply all these criteria, such as Amendment 96, which proposed support for the creation of provincial cooperatives for young people and rural women in sustainable projects; or Amendment 12 to support the social and cultural project Networks of the Agustín Alegre Foundation, whose aim is to increase attention and help people with cognitive difficulties, particularly with autistic spectrum disorder, and their families. The amendment supported the project because it pursued two objectives: to provide cultural services disseminated throughout the territory and at the same time to provide care services through a home care network for large dependents. I would also like to highlight Amendment 81, to support the comprehensive plan of care for the elderly in areas of low population density, such as the community of Calatayud, as a brake on depopulation and as a generator of social and economic fabric; or Amendment 108, to create a programme for improving the energy efficiency of agri-food cooperatives and their empowerment as energy communities; and others, such as Amendment 112, which sought to promote tractor projects in rural areas, or Amendment 115, to update the system of community-owned communities in the communal neighbourhoods and management boards in the mountains of partners. The social economy should also be part of Amendment 24, which in the city of Allepuz proposed to create a specialized centre for sports technology and athletics on the road for training in height or trail running.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u155	You have to finish, Mr. Guitarte.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u156	Similarly, Amendment 51, to boost the dynamizing project of the sport Empty Mountains that we already have on the way, attracting professional and amateur sportsmen; or Amendment 34, with the POWER EXPERIENCE project; or Amendment 126, for a chipping plant of headwood, which would recover, in addition to the product itself, the largest tree mass in mowing of Spain. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u157	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the same group, Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u158	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good afternoon, Madam Vice-President, second and Minister for Labour and Social Economy. Thank you for your explanations. Instead of paying due attention to job creation as a national priority, you are quite entertained by the melodrama of the labour reform of 2012 and the derogatory disputes between the two sectors within the Council of Ministers. Mrs Díaz, when we are about to cross the equator of this XIV Legislature, the Government, of which you are a very prominent part, presents us with make-up public accounts, which do not allow us to see a horizon clear of problems. On the contrary, the consolidated budget of EUR 30 142 million is a tool penalised by tax policies suffocating companies, as well as consolidating reformist immobilism, which perpetuates the rigidity of the rules, although in return you have taken the lock and quiet to the inspections. The unemployment rate, which you consider to be going down to 14.1% on an annual average, is going to stay away because the government is irresponsibly making bad forecasts. Estimates of 2.7% of employment growth by 2022 contrast with the abundant worst-case forecasts made by national and international agencies. [[The lady]] Ladies and gentlemen, the young Spaniards have been leading the European unemployment ranking for many months, and in Asturias we have the worst data. But it is that high unemployment and precariousness not only affect young people, but have spread to all working age groups. When many workers hoped to benefit from the so-called relief contract, they suppressed it. It is dramatic and a major nonsense that has slipped from the Government that the working age should be extended to seventy-five years. What kind of joke is this? When many workers approaching retirement age had plans to get ahead of themselves, the coalition government arrived and raised penalties, with permanent effects on the pension. When it is socially accepted that a 40-year-old working life is long, the Government arrives and says no, that this figure remains very short and must continue to bend its spine. When many workers resign to extend their lives to work under the threat of losing a substantial part of their well-deserved pension, the Government gives way to bank conversions that drag thousands and thousands of unemployed employees, many of whom, by their age, have a remote chance of finding work again. Ladies and gentlemen, the end result of this race of obstacles to sustaining employment and creating jobs is coming to light: Spain is getting worse because the same economic and labour policies are being repeated that lead us to the disaster at the hands of the Socialist Party, aided today by the United We can. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u159	Thank you very much, Mr. Martínez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Muñoz Vidal has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u160	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. They're going to allow me a preview. Some of your lordships have told me that yesterday I came up quite angry at this rostrum, and it is true. As a Spanish citizen, I am still outraged by the level of hypocrisy and the lack of rigour that some of the speeches that we need to hear here take away. I'm out of habit, that must be it. It's political, they say. But you know what? That I don't want and I don't care. I do not want to get used to general state budgets that must be historic, that should be the most important for our country's recovery, directed by those who want to break and want the worst for our country. I don't want to get used to Otegi deciding my children's future or to nationalists and independenceists telling me in what language I have to speak or in what language I have to watch TV channels. [[Applauds]] I don't want the communists to tell me what to eat or how to live better as a woman. You'll forgive me, but as a Spanish citizen, as a free mother and woman, I don't want or can't accept it. Vice-President, it is obvious that after an unprecedented crisis the labour market situation is much more favourable. I'd miss more at this point! However, it is far from being recovered. From my parliamentary group we regret that the Government seems to be satisfied with this bouncing effect of employment. You have said that the budget for social economy and work should not be defined solely by the amount, but by what and for whom. I say to you that why I have not been very clear, because I review the budgets and why they should not be the same as for everyone, because these budgets are not designed to revive the economy or to generate employment and let us not say to address the structural problems of the Spanish market. You also talked about who, and I thought you didn't even mention young people at one time. In the second quarter of 2021, the employment rate in Spain remained 2.2 percentage points lower than in the second quarter of 2019, a particularly serious situation for young people aged 16 to 29 years; young people with no hope were hit by unemployment rates of 30 % and a temporary situation of around 50 %. Figures that we seem to have gotten used to and that do not cause us any reaction, when as a society we should be appalled and as public representatives shame. In the section for whom you also spoke of the most vulnerable. I'm telling you, I haven't heard the word young. But these General State Budgets include a programme supposedly designed to encourage young jobs - because this is called young jobs, in half-seats - of EUR 255 million per year from European funds. Of the EUR 255 million already planned for this year, for this year, I would like to ask you today, if you have the figure, how much has been implemented? Because seeing the Funcas report yesterday says something like that the implementation deficit of some of the main measures announced in the BOE is unacceptable because they hinder our recovery and seeing precedents in the implementation of European funds, do you really believe that this programme will be effective in 2022? Because yesterday the head of the European cohesion funds told us that he has 36 billion in a drawer prepared for Spain and that he is still waiting for the Ministry of Finance to submit proposals to him to execute all that money. But most importantly, Vice President, do you think that with all this, with programs like Youth Employment, we will solve something? Do you think they are the ideal destination for funds that end in the year 2023? What's gonna happen next? Because what this government is proposing in the budgets is to give today some items to young jobs that will not be executed and will forget the young people you tomorrow, the classic bipartisanism of watering with promises of money and investments to the Spaniards and then end up adjusting the expenditure by budgetary failure. Instead of providing definitive solutions and structural tools to help young people have a full life project, it gives the impression that you prefer to spend the money on short-term effective measures that do not go to the heart of the problem. Unfortunately, these budgets are not accompanied by structural measures for labour market reform, but by a struggle of egos to see who is aiming for the repeal of labour reform. From Citizens we will not stop, we will not cease in our efforts, to end the temporality in the labour market, by allowing every worker to develop the life project he wishes with all guarantees and with complete freedom and that young people can emancipate themselves and build a future life that is not equal, but better than that which they had those who preceded them. You, the most progressive government, which was not going to leave anyone behind, have kept your mouth shut and prevented the discussion of good amendments for the self-employed, for the protection of self-employment, for maternity and paternity leave of 24 weeks in the public sector, in the private sector; support measures for the extension of the special unemployment benefit for those who had been unemployed during the pandemic, for the extension of the Me Care Plan, for the self-employed, for the Plan of attraction and retention of talent so that they do not migrate out of precarious work. They do not recognize unemployment benefit for domestic workers, nor do they recognize the bonus of training and apprenticeship contracts for persons with disabilities. But I'm gonna end up with an optimistic message, so they won't tell me. You have not vetoed our amendment 304, the Austrian backpack and the reduction in the number of contracts. It must be because of the delay or because they've come to their senses. You talked about Europeanizing our work model and I almost cried the other day when I read that Calviño planted the seed of the Austrian backpack in the proposal of the new ERTE. I'm crying with emotion. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u161	Thank you, Mrs. Muñoz. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Boadella Esteve has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u162	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon. Vice-President, we have the departure for your Ministry of Labour, but first let me tell you a previous question. As you know, this morning we announced our support for the budgets in a framework of global agreements that I believe is worth highlighting. One of the main agreements - beyond the specific amendments - is this opening of European funds to all non-profit-making entities which also provide social, health and therefore contribute to public services. This is also economics, this is also work, this occupies many and many jobs and, therefore, that this non-profit sector that provides public services can also have access to European funds, for us it was a transcendental issue. You pointed out in your speech that we will get out of the pandemic and achieve recovery by relying on the public. I tell you that trusting in public services may be, but not just trusting in the public, trusting in the public and those people who also do public services. He knows that we are strong advocates of public-private collaboration and the private sector is full of non-profit actors - for example, as this case distinguished him - who help us to have quality public services, but who do so in other ways, not trusting everything to the public. Perhaps this bet we make for private public collaboration is what differentiates us ideologically. In any case, in the area of work we are currently dealing with, you pointed out some issues relating to the increase in the inter-professional minimum wage. Here I have to remind you of the most necessary aid to the special employment centres. This is a subject, especially in cases of great disability, which in Catalonia we are also very concerned about because there is a long tradition and a long history of generating these jobs. These people may not have very productive jobs economically, but these places represent an unprecedented social return. Therefore, to resolve this issue, because when the minimum interprofessional wage is raised no matter how little there is an additional cost and cost to all these entities, it is a very priority for us, as are the policies of occupation, which I have mentioned earlier, or the unconditional support to the self-employed, which has always been our DNA when it comes to doing politics together with the workers, although we sometimes emphasize the self-employed, of course, we also refer to the rest of the workers. For this reason, I wanted to start by repeating this announcement that we are going to support the General Budgets of the State, but also that we are going to continue in this legislature that continues to do these actions in all the laws. With regard to self-employed persons, it was only a few days ago that we were able to ensure that self-employed persons were also entitled to benefits in respect of their minimum living income. These people may be directors of a company, but they may not be active, they may have closed the business, or they may be in competition, and only because of the mere fact that they were directors of a company did not have the right to a minimum living income. These issues concern us in the budgets and concern us on the day to day of our political action, as well as the fight against temporality or youth unemployment. I believe that this question is the great white elephant in the room - and I am not referring to 23-F but as a concept -. What I raise is that this issue of youth unemployment continues to be the great challenge facing this ministry from the point of view of work. It was also an opportunity to fund the Care Plan. It is good to be able to have the right to reduce the day, even to a hundred percent, but the fact is that the reduction in the day goes in parallel with a reduction in wages that makes many people unable to take on this reduction in the day. Therefore, the Plan Me Care, in concept, is very good, but the Plan Me Care without resources, the truth is that it doesn't end up being as useful as it could be. As I said before, without extending too much, the legislature continues. We too will be attentive to the famous promise of abrogation of labour reform. I'm gonna tell you a little story, public because it's in the official bulletins. I put a parliamentary question as to whether they believed that compensation for wrongful dismissal had to go from 33 days to 45 days per year worked, because if labour reform had to be reformed, the compensation might have to be changed back to the way it was before. The answer they have given me from the ministry is totally generic, entirely of plans and projects for the future. Therefore, when you say that you are going to repeal labour reform in the future, even if it cannot be included in the budgets but in the political will, you could already say that you are going to reform labour legislation, but you are not going to repeal labour reform. We also opened the door, with joy, to the Austrian backpack that was pointed out in the previous intervention. We believe that this is a good solution to the problem of work in the Spanish State, in the configuration of Spanish labour legislation. It can be a great solution both for the issue of compensation and for the future in the issue of pensions. Therefore, as I said, we will support these General State Budgets, in accordance with these amendments and pacts, but we will be very careful in what remains of the legislature to ensure all these issues relating to self-government, the Austrian backpack, labour legislation and combating youth unemployment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u163	Thank you very much, Mr Boadella. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr. Movellán Lombilla has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u164	Thank you very much, President. Mrs Díaz, far from the dreams that you see, the budgets that we are bringing to the debate today are totally anti-employment budgets that, far from generating the certainty and taking the necessary measures to boost the much needed recovery of the labour market, are based on a series of false premises, unrealistic expectations that only generate more concern among the Spaniards who, as it is normal, no longer believe anything. We don't believe you anymore, Mrs. Díaz. You are the Minister of Labour of a country in which there are four million Spaniards who want to work and cannot, of a country in which more than one million households have all their members unemployed. You are the minister of a government that the only recipe you have to face the harsh reality of Spanish households is the chicken poke recipe. I ask you, Mrs. Díaz, whether it occurred to your comrade Garzón that the government should teach us to eat cheaply after knowing his budget for this 2022, because this is not an anecdote, it is a symptom that we are managed by a toxic and frivolous government that fattens the ages, inflates the separatists and empowers the Okupas. You've asked a few questions. For what? We see that there is not a single structural reform, no policy, heading or programme designed to create opportunities for the future in these budgets. And for whom? No hope for those who have already left behind because, as every time you rule the left in this country, the queues of unemployment and hunger multiply and the collectives you claim to protect the most are the most vulnerable. I'm not gonna ask you how you sleep at night, because you'd probably lie to us again. You are an expert in trilerism and you are not to be trusted because you say one thing and do the opposite and because you have already become the worst Labour Minister in the history of this country. With you we go straight into the abyss, Mrs. Díaz. We are leaders in unemployment, youth unemployment, female unemployment, according to Eurostat, and you, so calm. It comes week after week here, distorts the data, sells a triumphalism in case there is any defection and believes it, but you do not work for the labour market, for the much needed reform of the labour market. You do not want to apply the models that are working in Europe; models that the People's Party defends and will operate as soon as we reach the Government of Spain and we propose that this budget be incorporated. I am talking about the Austrian backpack, and your disregard for this proposal is only one more indication of your responsibility as a government and of how little Spain matters to you and to solve the structural problems of our labour market. Because the Austrian backpack is the real labor revolution that our country needs, and not the rise in contributions. Raising the tax on labour does not favour job creation. The advantages of this new model are that it would end with the duality of our labour market and contribute to labour mobility, as workers who wanted to change jobs would do so with that pool of accumulated funds. And from the point of view of the companies, those who had to be subject to a staffing adjustment would do so according to efficiency criteria and not economic as hitherto, since they often do not belong to those workers hired most recently because their compensation is lower. This new model will encourage indefinite recruitment, wage increases and flexibility, and in addition, the capital that the worker accumulates during his working hours will serve as a complement to retirement. This is a model in which everyone wins: our labour market, workers and businesses. Now is the time, now is the time for its implementation with European funds. I'm not telling you, the Bank of Spain is telling you. The Austrian backpack is the real labor revolution that Spain needs and we cannot let this opportunity slip away. I know that it is not your model, Mrs Díaz, that you prefer to encourage precarious employment, which is the only job you have created since you are a minister: temporary employment, partial employment and public employment too, from advisers to fingers, but that would be another debate. You, who call your electorate in your campaign papers'sheep', are more in favour of leading flocks. But it must be said that those who do not respect themselves cannot be properly governed, and you do not respect the young people of this country. They have already been in government for three years and have done nothing, absolutely nothing, for young people. And now you do, in these budgets you remember them and you say you reach out to them. They remember those young people who will turn 18 in 2022, to give them that straw, and without getting colored. A collective that has more than 35% unemployment rate, but you only have to offer them leisure bonuses to entertain those Mondays in the sun. However, we propose to implement the training bonus to facilitate employment for the most difficult young people, with a budget of EUR 500 million from European funds. With our training bonus the young people signed a contract for learning, would learn a profession and will receive financial aid for eighteen months. Because, ladies and gentlemen, the priority of unemployed young people is not to go to the cinema, it is to work, and this country needs us all - but not tied to the manger but with the high head and freedom that gives them a decent job and wages; a salary that they will then invest in what they want and not in what the government tells them to do because they are young, but they are not fools. In the meantime, you, minister, entangled everything but unsolved nothing. It is the biggest enemy of job creation, scares investment in our country and creates great uncertainty and mistrust in the labour market. Sudistour and its flag have been the repeal of labour reform. However, it has been two years since she was a minister and far from abrogating what she has done - fortunately, it has to be said - has been applied. Be brave, Minister, tell the truth once and for all here in Parliament today. Tell Spain what this country was like in December 2011: the three and a half million unemployed people that the socialist government sent to unemployment and how a dying country, like the one that its government partners left us, does not turn back in two days. Tell him how the labour market has evolved since the Labour Reform of the People's Party began to bear fruit. Tell him about the evolution of the labour market since we hit the ground in February 2013. Tell her how 500,000 jobs were created each year from the last five of the People's Party governments, 1400 jobs a day; how all women's jobs were recovered or who had more women than ever worked. Tell the Spaniards - it has finished - that here who knows how to create employment is not other than the People's Party, that we also proudly say that our sign of identity and the best social policy is the creation of employment. That's the best recipe to get the country out and not your chicken poke partner's recipe. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u165	Thank you very much, Mr. Movellán. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, I have the floor, Mrs Franco Carmona.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u166	Thank you, President. Thank you, Minister of Labour for your explanations. The budget of the Ministry of Labour and Social Economy is a budget which, as you have said, proposes to improve employment and to have a labour market in which decent employment prevails. For the year 2022 the budget is EUR 30 142 million, there is a reduction of 7.6% which responds, as you have said, to the reduction of people in unemployment in our country, to which is also added the reduction of people in ERTE situation resulting from the pandemic. But if this budget compares to the 2020 budget - just before the pandemic - we find a 19% increase. Today, not even the People's Party can deny that the battery deployed by this Government, and by the Ministry of Labour in particular, during the pandemic has been a lifesaver for millions of people in this country. 3617 000 people have been protected from unemployment, thanks to the flexibility of the ERTE mechanism. Not only have millions of people been prevented from falling into unemployment, but we have also been reducing unemployment for seven months. These Budgets are a clear change in our country's economic and labour policy. While the People's Party and Fatima Báñez in the previous government cut the unemployment benefit - in the sixth month of this benefit the amount is cut from 60% to 30% - this ministry, the Ministry of Labour, with you, Minister Diaz, improves in budgets the protection of people by unemployment, increases the budget of unemployment benefits and, moreover - this is very important - it is going to protect more and better the people who are in worse situation. While in the years 2010 and 2013, with a government of the People's Party, Iprem, which is the indicator used for the majority of anti-poverty benefits and housing aid, only increased by €5, this government is increasing its amount by 2.5%. This is something that is very important, especially for people who are going through the worst in our country. In addition, there is an increase in employment policies to support with training the incorporation into the labour market of our young people, who have largely gone through very bad times with high unemployment rates, and also to support the change of the productive model and green industrialization, because you are very aware that Spain cannot go back to industrialization and return to the tail of the European Union car. While the previous Government of the People's Party cuts the inspection budget, this Government is strengthening the Labour and Social Security Inspectorate, which will have nearly EUR 200 million to carry out its work to protect labour rights and improve the quality of employment. It must be said that, thanks to the impetus of this ministry and also of the Labour Inspectorate, 267,000 precarious jobs have already been converted into indefinite contracts by 2021, and this is also very important. Something very different from how the crisis was managed in 2008 by the People's Party, since with its cut-off policies we reached over six million unemployed people in 2013 and became youth unemployment sub-champions with 56%, i.e. with more than half of our country's youth unemployed, only behind Greece. The current Government, in the hands of social dialogue and with a profound change in the structural measures of the Spanish labour market to put an end to the precarious laws of the previous Government of the People's Party, is legislating for the social majority. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, I know that it is very difficult for you to accept this. You are the majority opposition group and you are not working for the good of our country, you are simply making an opposition based on not everything even if it is good for our country. Therefore, you will have to explain why you voted against the law riders, which ended the unsustainable situation of false self-employed people; why you have been opposed to the increase in the interprofessional minimum wage that improves the situation, especially of those who charge lower wages, and why for you the only opposition policy is no, no and no. With the help of social dialogue, the 2012 labour reform of poverty in the People's Party, which was also done without social dialogue and provoked two general strikes in our country, will be repealed. This ministry will amend the Workers' Statute to recover collective bargaining, to review the wide possibilities now available with the substantial modification of working conditions to precarise the workers of our country and also to restore the ultra-activity of the agreements, to recover also the freedom of trade union and above all to end the excessive temporaryity that in our country so precarious to our workers. In short, they are measures whose only objective is to improve people's lives. Finally, Mrs Díaz, I would like to thank you for worrying about the situation that is currently being experienced in the metal industry in Cadiz, for the exercise of the fundamental right to strike. You know, though I know you know well, that the situation in the Bay of Cadiz is terrible, because it has endured a situation of deindustrialisation for decades now. The closure of Delphi was very loud, but they have also closed LTK or Airbus Puerto Real. Just as the eight-hour day was won with the Canadian, metal workers are now struggling to keep their purchasing power from falling. The only thing they are asking is for their wages to be increased in relation to the CPI, as has been achieved with pensions. That's why I'm asking the Ministry of the Interior to stop the police charges, to take out Cadiz's tanks...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u167	Mrs. Franco, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u168	I'm done, Madam President. I ask the Government of the People's Party of Moreno Bonilla to stop looking elsewhere and begin to do the work of its competence, to mediate, and the employers of Cadiz to begin to ensure the rights of their workers. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u169	Thank you very much, Mrs. Franco. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Aizcorbe Torra has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u170	Thank you very much, Madam President. Go ahead and I have the conviction that the vast majority of Spaniards, even many of your ladies and gentlemen, feel recognized with a double feeling: indolence and frustration. Indolence and frustration, for these budgets are the rubric of a failure, of a failed State that resorts for its own subsistence, never better said, to the looting of its subjects, where it first steals from them what they have achieved with their effort to distribute gifts to the landscape and the supremacy of the State over the person, obviating the subsidiarity that must be exercised by that State, where the young people must pay the feast of before, the one of now and cannot pay the one of after, leaving to the pair of the temporal whim of politicians prisoners of agendas created by bureaucrats outside the reality of society. Indolence and frustration because unemployment in the third quarter of 2021 has reached 14.57 %, the average annual rate of 2021 is already 15.2% and the average annual rate of 2022 is expected to be 14.4%, the largest in the whole of the European Union. A failure as a nation and, above all, for young people. [[Applauds]] Indolence and frustration because youth unemployment stands at 31.15 %, the highest in Europe, and there are no prospects for recovery, especially for young people. Indolence and frustration because the illusory job recovery is done by increasing the number of public employees and reducing the number of private jobs. Comparing the fourth quarter of 2019 - the pre-pandemic - with the current one, we see that there are 230,000 more people in the public sector and 150,000 less people in the private sector, and are not included, minister, those that follow in any type of ERTE, which are 190,718 people. Indolence and frustration because the budgetary forecasts for Section 19 - it is, corresponding to Work - are substantially affected by downward macroeconomic forecasts, recently denounced by agencies and institutions such as the INE, the Bank of Spain or the International Monetary Fund. Indolence and frustration because the same mistakes are repeated as in previous budgets and exercises in relation to unemployment benefits. By 2021, 1,078,575 beneficiaries had been budgeted, and by 30 August this year the budget implementation amounted to 1,551,247 beneficiaries. In 2022 they foresee 860 575, and we will see it in that execution. Indolence and frustration, Minister, Members of Parliament, because with the looting of trade unions, the allocation for the accumulated trade union heritage is increased by 163 %, with 15 315 000 euros; a real looting. Meanwhile, this government sinks the industrial sector in Cadiz. A government that is responsible for the situation of the tractor companies Navantia and Airbus, for lack of investment and a harmful foreign policy for exports, and that now intends to wash its hands. [[Applauds]] The struggle of the metal workers of Cadiz is the legitimate claim of a province condemned to misery by this government. [[Applauds]] Yes, the Government is responsible for all this, and some of its workers may be the result of manipulation by those who throw the stone and hide their hand. The very members who support this treacherous and useless Government encourage this, and today we have seen it with stupor here, in this rostrum. Do not come with institutional declarations; the collapse of the said industrial sector in Cadiz is the responsibility of the Government of the ruin and the lie of President Sánchez and also of you, Minister of Labour. [[Applauds]] Indolence and frustration because they are killing society, which has lost the illusion, horizon and optimism after making public its agreement with Bildu and the foreword of other agreements with formations far removed from this common task that is Spain. And it's that in life you die so many times that the last is the least important. I heard this phrase on September 17, 1985, after the attack suffered by my good friend, professor and great constitutionalist lawyer, Esteban Gómez Rovira, recently deceased. That day the terrorists of Terra Lliure, Jordi Cort and Quim Sànchez, whom some of their lords knew - or knew -, erred in their murderous purpose in the attack in their office in Barcelona. It was one of the three attacks we suffered, because I had the honour of being an office partner with the only weapons in the legal codes and the constitutional text. In life you die so many times that the last one is the one that matters the least. Weeks later I understood the meaning of that phrase, when burying terrorist Quim Sánchez, who died preparing another terrorist artifact, his mother said: I don't know why my son was fighting. I felt a great chill and compassion for those parents. God knows that this young man had already died on previous occasions, as a result of his mistakes, hatreds and fanaticism. Stop killing illusions of the Spaniards with an opulent and unnecessary state, an incapable and lying government that prevents an open, free, dynamic, optimistic and creative society of effective solidarity, in short, the living Spain that advocates VOX. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u171	Thank you, Mr. Aizcorbe. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, I have the floor, Mrs Peña Camarero.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u172	Thank you, President. Very good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Movellan, the truth is that with you I do not lose the ability to be amazed. The reflections of the People's Party on the labour market do not cease to amaze me; understand me as a reaction to the wrong, the rude, the unusual or the absurd appreciation that you have made here today, precisely today, when we know that the Supreme Court has reconfirmed a further job conviction to the People's Party for legally cutting compensation to its workers. And you come here to talk about backpacks that leave workers in this country without compensation in case of dismissal. [[Applauds]] The truth is, I'm not surprised, but you're not even a bit of blush. The Castilian refranero already says: he who has no shame the whole street is his. [[Applauds]] So, okay, let's go into numbers war. Today in this country there are 10,000 more young people working than before the COVID, today in this country there are 375 000 more women with contracts, today in Spain the membership of Social Security is in historical records, with more than 19.5 million members, seven consecutive months reducing unemployment and almost 800,000 fewer unemployed. Ladies and gentlemen of the PP, today there are 34,000 more autonomous people than we had before the crisis. Enough data? Never. A socialist will never be happy as long as there is a worker going through difficulties in our country, never. That is where these accounts are incardinated, with the aim of reducing two of the misfortunes that the Spanish labour market has, inherited from the mismanagement of the People's Party: unemployment and precariousness. These are the State's general budgets that underpin the policy that responds to these two problems. And how are we going to do it? This is what the Minister said: by strengthening active employment policies, maintaining a 35% increase, with important, powerful, innovative policies for young people, with tools for their first professional experience, for alternance training, for the promotion of the STEM professions..., but to be implemented. There are 111,000 unemployed in Castile and León, and the People's Party of Tomorrow has stopped 13 billion active employment policies. Then there is Andalusia, with 900 000 unemployed, where Mr Moreno Bonilla has paralysed 40% of the aid that this government has made available to the unemployed Andalusians who want to return to work. That's why we're on it. What tools are we going to use to make and implement these budgets? Obviously, the key is the Labour Inspectorate, which has not only guaranteed occupational health and safety during the past year, but has somehow managed to contain the rate of temporaryity thanks to the campaign to transform fraudulent contracts: 270,000 contracts in the last campaign have gone from temporary to indefinite fraud. This is achieved only by genuinely believing in inspection, as this Government does, and by increasing its budgets, reaching 200 million by next year. Obviously, with the State Employment Public Service. Thanks to their workers, the first thing, that more than praise deserved than what they need is human and technical means, not what the People's Party has just asked in this House, that much of SEPE's 711 physical offices in the national territory be reduced to rationalize spending on physical and human means. Is this really what you can offer? Again, is it wrong to make mistakes, reducing staff? Did you think little of the hatchet of 1800 jobs that now want to reduce the territorial deployment of a public service? But what's gotten into them? Where does this anger come from with the provision of public services? [[Applauds]] Because it's clear. Moreover, you, who have us used to thinking that Spain is only Madrid, I can guess where you will want to close those offices: in peripheral Spain, surely, in inner Spain, in the provinces of the smallest population, right? Eliminate a new public service in provinces like mine, where this closure of offices that you propose would be added to the closure of the PP of medical clinics and educational classrooms. I tell you from here that the Socialist Party is not going to let you out of this intention. [[Applauds]] I'm telling you very clearly, we're not gonna let them dismantle another public service. These General State Budgets also bring us good news, of course, because these accounts are also to do justice and to take into account those you have forgotten for so long. In this case, I am referring to the victims of asbestos. It is a satisfaction for the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party to be able to launch, with 25 million euros, the compensation fund for asbestos victims, after years of struggle of associations of victims, of trade unions, of the comrades of the Basque Socialist Party, of course. [[applause]] And you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, are going to vote against this EUR 25 million. They are going to vote against accounts that are going to talk a lot about modernization and of leaving behind, of course, their labour reform. Labour reform is not just recruitment reform, it is also; it is not just about the reform of precariousness, it is also; it is not just about the reform of the mechanisms that have to do with collective bargaining, but we are going to talk about labour reform to modernise our employment policy system. And it's urgent to do so, because we've been around her labor reform for over a year. What would have happened in this country if we had maintained the statutory basis for unemployment benefits that you cut off 20 points for the unemployed? What would happen if we hadn't urgently modified the joint created by you to fire sick people? In short, these accounts will help to put an end to their labour reform, by the people of this country, by the working people, by businesses, but above all, by young people. Today we knew Oxfam data that tells us that one in three young wage earners under thirty-five years of age were before the crisis in employment poverty. More than half of the contracts of less than seven days in this country, with their labour reform, are still under thirty-five years old, and we cannot afford this. That is why these general budgets of the State which this Government presents, to talk about digital qualifications, green qualifications; to put a stop to the injustices suffered by housekeepers, to the poor conditions of security guards; to put an end to young people in precarious situations and to women in part-time non-voluntary work. This is what these budgets are for, to contain the rate of temporality, to ensure stability in employment and to take advantage of each and every one of the potentialities of our productive system. In short, they are accounts to protect our country. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u173	Thank you very much, Mrs Peña. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Section 20, Industry, Trade and Tourism We move on to the debate in section 20, Ministry of Industry, Trade and Tourism. For the section presentation, I have the floor on behalf of the Government, the Minister for Industry, Trade and Tourism.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u174	Good afternoon, President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is an honour for me to attend the plenary session of the Congress of Deputies to explain the broad lines of the draft budgets for 2022 of the Ministry of Industry, Commerce and Tourism. In my speech, I highlight the large figures in the budget, but also the priority orientations of spending policies. The first reflection I would like to convey to all of you is that the Ministry of Industry, Trade and Tourism will have the largest budget in its history, a budget aimed at consolidating the just economic recovery, but also at driving the process of transforming and modernising our productive fabric. With this budget, the ministry strengthens productive investment among sectors that are essential to accelerate the transformation of the Spanish economy, such as industry, trade and tourism. This public support will boost private activity in key areas such as sustainability, digitalisation and innovation, but also social and territorial cohesion, with a strong boost from small and medium-sized enterprises. As you know, this budget incorporates the plans and projects linked to the Recovery and Resilience Mechanism adopted by the European Union through the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan that was approved last June. This is undoubtedly a collective success of the European Union, in which the Spanish Government played a leading role. It is a budget, that of 2022, which amounts to EUR 8300 million, which means, ladies and gentlemen, an increase of EUR 3402 million, 70% higher than the current budget. Of this amount, a total of €4876 million is allocated to the funds of the Recovery and Resilience Mechanism. Next, I will explain an orderly presentation of the three areas of spending in my department. The area of industry and SMEs will have €5735 million in 2022, a historic increase over this year's budget of more than 95,8 %. Without doubt, this budget is a unique and probably unrepeatable opportunity, ladies and gentlemen, to make an industrial and SME policy that we need and that we have been yearning for for for years in our country. The most important line of this budget is support for strategic projects for economic recovery and transformation, the so-called PERTE. As you know, this year we approved in June the electric and connected vehicle PART, a PART which has a multiannual budget of 2975 million euros, being allocated, for the year 2022, 1660 million euros. Also, ladies and gentlemen, we are going to strengthen next year two programmes which are very relevant to the industrial sector and which allow the financing of innovation projects, organisational processes and R & D projects, a programme with EUR 150 million, an increase of 58% compared to the programme convened this year. There are also projects for the implementation of digitization in processes and organization of industrial companies, a program with 150 million euros, which means an increase of 60% of the call that we have approved this year. Ladies and gentlemen, in the area of SMEs, we are going to develop a number of actions that I will describe. As regards the promotion of entrepreneurship, the School of Industrial Organisation and Enisa will develop actions within the framework of the Spain Entrepreneur Nation Strategy with more than 30 million euros. In the area of business growth, the allocation for the guarantee refinancing system will be strengthened by providing the technical provisions fund of some EUR 113 million. In addition, we are going to launch a new programme, the industrial entrepreneurship programme, which provides guarantees for the financing of industrial SMEs; a programme which will be endowed with 30 million euros and which will be articulated through mutual guarantee companies, thus benefiting from the financial costs of guarantees requested by industrial SMEs for the creation of new industrial establishments or for projects of change of scale in production in the company. The School of Industrial Organisation will also strengthen actions to increase the growth capacities of our SMEs, with a budget of 40 million euros. And I would also like to highlight the Innovative Business Groups programme, the IEA programme, a programme that is being updated, focusing on the digital transformation of industry, and which for 2022 has an investment of EUR 50 million, which means, ladies and gentlemen, an increase of more than one hundred per cent of what we have budgeted this year. Apart from the European funds, from the Resilience Mechanism, I would like to highlight the increase in the indirect cost compensation programme, which by the year 2022 will be endowed with 179 million euros and, in addition, to transfer them that in the normative part of the 2022 State General Budgets it is planned to increase this item with revenues from greenhouse gas emission allowances auctions in the terms approved in the Climate Change Act, which will allow, ladies and gentlemen, to meet the maximum of the applications received. To give you a given, in this year's call for CO2 aid, we have met 93% of the applications received and 170 companies and 210 production centres have benefited. In addition, the provision for compensation of charges provided for in the Statute for Electrointensive Consumers, with EUR 91 million, is maintained, and the Fund for Support of Industrial Productive Investment, which, as you know, is replenished with an additional EUR 600 million for long-term strategic financing of the growth of industrial enterprises, is replenished. In short, ladies and gentlemen, these budgets are a unique opportunity for our country's industry, to speed up its adaptation to the dual green and digital transition, but also to ensure that industry continues to contribute to the creation of wealth, to the creation of quality jobs and to increase its competitiveness. In the area of tourism, we will have EUR 1800 million, an increase of 36% over the budget of 2021, a figure that represents a historical volume destined by the General Administration of the State to modernise our tourism sector. This spending policy aims to contribute to the revival of tourism, while addressing the major transformations that will enable us to maintain competitiveness and strengthen our leadership at the international level. To this end, we will establish five priority areas, in which we will develop different programmes in coordination with the Autonomous Communities, local authorities and the private sector. The first of these priority areas, ladies and gentlemen, is the transformation of tourism supply towards sustainability. The call for tourism sustainability plans for destination is increased by 9%, reaching €720 million for next year. As you will know, today we have approved in the Council of Ministers the extraordinary call for 2021, with an investment of 615 million euros, a call for which we have received more than five hundred sustainability plans, indicating the great welcome this programme has received. I announce that before the end of the year we will approve the seventeen territorial plans. The second of our priorities is the commitment to digitisation and tourism intelligence. The digital transformation of our destinations will count to 115 million euros, 80% more than in 2021. The investment priorities addressed in this area are, on the one hand, the consolidation of our tourist intelligence system, a unique environment of access to information between the supply and demand of the Spanish tourism sector, which is added from destination to national level. Secondly, we will continue to develop the intelligent destination platform, which will provide interoperability with the provision of public and private services for the tourist; a platform that will allow all agents to relate to the tourist in a smart and scalable digital way. As you know, last week we announced that the headquarters of this platform will be in Benidorm, a pioneering destination, a destination that has been the first to obtain DTI certification, and it is also a way of continuing to decentralize the services of the General Administration of the State, because this government - yes, ladies and gentlemen - is believed to have to address the demographic challenge, and to do so with facts, not words, and this is certainly good news. In the area of digitisation, the budgets for 2022 also include EUR 45 million in the Programme for the transformation and innovation of tourism enterprises. In particular, we will call for aid for preferably small and medium-sized tourism companies, to finance innovative technology-based projects, as well as the development of a comprehensive digital skills plan that supports this transformation. Finally and in this same axis, it is important to highlight the actions that Segittur will do to support the Network of Smart Tourist Destinations, a network of which 347 institutions that make up the main tourist destinations of Spain are currently part. The promotion of the digital tourism ecosystem, internationalization and marketing, national tourism services and resources will be part of the strategy that Segittur develops throughout 2022. The third of our priorities are tourism resilience strategies in extrapenisular territories, strategies that are developed in the Canary Islands and the Balearic Islands, which are most affected by the impact of the pandemic. In collaboration with the autonomous governments, each of the archipelagos, ladies and gentlemen, will have EUR 50 million, an increase of 150% over the strategy that we are going to adopt this year. In 2022, the strategy of resilience of the Canary Islands announced that it will take into account the recovery of the island of La Palma. From here, again, shows all the affection and support for palm trees and palm trees, but also for its tourism sector, which will count in the year 2022 with a recovery plan of this sector so important for the island. The fourth priority is the improvement of the competitiveness of our tourism sector, on the basis of a programme that we are going to approve this week, a programme of tourism experiences Spain, which doubles in the year 2022 the allocation for this year, counting on a credit of 49 million euros. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to highlight the tourist promotion that Turespana is developing. Until the end of 2022 he will devote his resources to recovering the demand for quality international tourism to Spain. In short, ladies and gentlemen, we are going to make an investment effort as never before to contribute to the recovery, but also to the modernization, of our tourism model, and to consolidate a more sustainable, diversified tourism, committed to the demographic challenge, and also more digital and inclusive. In the area of trade, the strong impact of the pandemic has undoubtedly accelerated as a result of the trends we observed before it, and it is these trends that represent our main strategic lines. Support for internationalisation, the boost to the competitiveness of Spanish companies, especially small and medium-sized enterprises, as well as the digital transformation and sustainability of retail trade, are some of the priorities that we will reinforce with the budgets of 2022. At present, we are seeing a significant increase in exports of goods. Today the data for the first nine months of the year have been published, with an increase of 22 %, but the most important thing is that exports already exceed, ladies and gentlemen, the pre-crisis records, despite the problems in supplies of some components or the rise in the price of raw materials. The Government's internationalization strategy is reflected in Action Plan 2021-2022, whose actions seek to achieve an export sector that increases its resilience and is configured as what it already is: a pillar of growth and job creation. For this, we will count on more than 200 million euros this year, coming from the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan, programs that focus, ladies and gentlemen, especially on small and medium-sized enterprises, because it is the SMEs that face the most difficulties to go abroad. In the area of retail trade, there are also initiatives to boost their competitiveness, digital transformation, the sustainability of retail trade, which have been implemented in three lines of aid and the creation of a specific fund for the trade sector for the next year. The three lines of aid, which I am going to describe to you, have, first of all, the sustainable markets programme, a programme aimed at financing projects for the improvement and modernisation of municipal markets, commercial areas, non-sedentary markets and short marketing channels. It is a programme with €66.6 million for 2022. The second of the programmes, which we are developing in collaboration with the Spanish Federation of Municipalities and Provinces, is approved for municipalities with less than 5000 inhabitants; a programme with 5 million euros, especially, as I say, aimed at areas of lower population density to strengthen the activity and commercial distribution through the use of technologies that allow to generate synergies between municipalities, between shops and neighbours, facilitating the consumption and delivery of the products. Again, a measure to meet the demographic challenge. Thirdly, there is the programme to strengthen commercial activity in tourist municipalities, a programme endowed with €33.3 million, which aims to finance plans and programmes aimed at the introduction of improvements in commercial areas of tourist areas that have suffered a strong negative impact as a result of the pandemic. These lines, ladies and gentlemen, give continuity to those published this year in the BOE on 11 October and which are at that time in a state of resolution. We have received, ladies and gentlemen, more than 749 requests, which shows the great acceptance that the three lines have had, even tripling the value and economic investment with which we counted in 2021. In 2022, ladies and gentlemen, we will once again draw up these three calls for support for retail trade and, as I told you, we will incorporate a new instrument, the technological fund, which will be endowed with 50 million euros, a fund that will provide small and medium-sized traders who will be willing to invest in improvements in their commercial establishments with technological and innovative criteria, in order to increase their competitiveness and accelerate digitisation towards a more sustainable model. Ladies and gentlemen, as I have been able to transfer to you, the funds associated with the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan represent almost 60% of the budget of the Ministry of Industry, Commerce and Tourism. We certainly have a great responsibility ahead of us to effectively manage the large amount of resources that we are going to mobilize to modernize and transform our productive fabric, and we are going to do so, ladies and gentlemen - and we are doing so - by collaborating with the private sector, but also by the hand of autonomous communities and local entities. I would like to end with a final reflection. After the months so hard that we have lived since the beginning of the pandemic, there are reasons for hope and we must be proud of what we have achieved as a country. We are effectively controlling the pandemic through the vaccination process. As mentioned earlier, social security membership is at its peak and we have already regained the jobs that existed before the pandemic. The economic recovery, ladies and gentlemen, is a fact, it is under way, and everything indicates that Spain will be one of the countries that will grow the most in Europe next year. In addition, ladies and gentlemen, we will continue to protect employment and our productive fabric whatever it takes. Today in the Council of Ministers we approved an extension of the moratorium on competitions until June 2022. Protecting employment and our productive fabric, but also investing in generating employment and modernizing our productive fabric, are the two recipes that the Government brings in these budgets. Adopting these budgets, ladies and gentlemen, will enable us to implement the reforms and transformations that this country needs thanks to an ambitious road map that we are launching through the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan, and it is the responsibility of all the parliamentary groups that this draft budgets, ladies and gentlemen, come forward. Its approval is not only important to support the productive fabric, to generate employment or to strengthen our welfare state, it is also undoubtedly a very important message of confidence and stability that will strengthen Spain's credibility. That is why I thank the parliamentary groups that are going to support these budgets and I appeal to the other groups to join this project, which will allow us, as I say, to consolidate the recovery but, above all, to facilitate the modernization and transformation of our country. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u175	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] In defence of amendments, Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u176	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good afternoon, Minister for Industry, Trade and Tourism, and thank you also for your explanations on matters of enormous importance, of enormous relevance to the economy and employment in our country. First of all, I would like to point out that one of the six amendments in its entirety to this draft public accounts was mine, from Forum, so that I again take it up again and justify my rejection, because I disagree with the use of a key tool that the Government of Pedro Sánchez has put at the service of parliamentary groups and political parties and that they are dragging us into a suicidal drift for national interests and uniquely for territorial unity. These Budgets deepen the inequality of the Spanish. Along with the reminder of the content of my entire amendment, which, like the other five, was rejected by the plenary session of Congress at the beginning of November, I support the partial amendments to this section of my colleagues from the Joint Group, representing Teruel Existe, Coalition Canaria, the Regionalist Party of Cantabria and New Canarias, as well as the one that is maintained by Forum Asturias, for the amount of 290 million euros, for the provision of a fund to assist the electro-intensive industry. Mrs Maroto, you have held this portfolio for three and a half years and neither with the attenuating of the VOCID-19 pandemic does you get rid of responsibility in the serious drift of our industry, which has in Asturias one of the most notorious examples of job destruction, which was once stable and qualified, but on which today hangs the great sword of Damocles of energy prices and the difficulties of supplies. These are two threats that have not come by chance, especially that of energy resources, because it was his Government that perpetuated the renunciation of energy sovereignty, since, unlike other European countries that are similar to Spain, it removed from a feather the power generation thermal power plants and now condemns us to buy dirty electricity from Morocco or to use much more of Algeria's gas. That is to say, after eliminating jobs, we now pay more to third countries, at the price they do not set, which is having a heavy impact on industrial costs and hinders the competitiveness of the products we manufacture in Spain and the creation of jobs. The Executive also complicated the pressing problems of the sector with the adoption of a statute for electric intensive consumers, whose handling, after almost two years of having distracted the hobby with procedures of allegations that were thrown directly into the trash, was left in water of rubber for widespread lamentation of companies and workers. You will have been told personally a few days ago by the trade union representatives of Alcoa in Avilésque, to the difficulties of survival resulting from a fraudulent operation sponsored by your ministry, is added to the retreat of Spain in the world market for aluminium. It is not only a matter of aluminium or zinc, Mrs Maroto, because Spanish industry is gradually losing positions, as reflected in the industrial output index and also in our system in European comparative statistics. By the way, it is to be welcomed that you have decided to ask the US administration to withdraw the tariffs, so we look forward to the formalization of Mr Sánchez's heroic request at one of the European summits or one of the fleeting meetings with President Biden. Ladies and gentlemen, during these two days of debate it has been reiterated that the revenue and expenditure chapters of the budgets for 2022 are balanced on the basis of estimates with which multiple national and international institutions and bodies have disagreed. The GDP growth forecasts made by the Executive are far removed from those which, almost unanimously, have been published, even by government-dependent entities. Therefore, for a ministry representing about 40% of the GDP of the economy and employment in Spain, the gap is going to touch industry, trade and tourism, which is a huge irresponsibility and will have unpredictable and irreparable consequences. Let us add that in Spain we are going to have serious problems so that, in general, our small and medium-sized enterprises can implement the European funds, because the management requirements are very complicated for a productive fabric that has suffered great shocks and shocks during this period of pandemic and is suffocated. Look at what the European Commission itself has had to do to extend the period in extremis in order to go to the Fund for the Solvency Support of Strategic Enterprises. Therefore, if the attack has taken place within the government itself - in SEPI - despite resorting to the hiring of specialized personnel, and in relation to large companies, we can already imagine what is going to happen to our SMEs, which are already plagued by tax pressure, rising prices and supply difficulties. Madam Minister for Industry, Trade and Tourism, we are in a national emergency situation around the subjects for which you are most responsible. It must be remembered that a few months ago you were the economic vice-president, that is, in an attempt, for the Community of Madrid, and since the socialist candidacy remained far from governing, relegated to the third position in the parliamentary arc, you remain in the blue bank and today you present us with a budget which, for the misfortune of Spain, is more than the same, which is continuous. Mrs Maroto, during the debate in which the public accounts were processed for 2021 that are in force, you called for the support of the House, as reflected in the Diario De Sesiones, and did so to give confidence and stability to the outside world, which would result in the strength and credibility of Spain. One year later, our country is much weaker because of the consequences of the bad policy of a government that promised to lower energy prices and has multiplied them, which has relegated to industry in the face of ecological radicalism, which has left the tourism sector to its fate and which has more commercial problems in exporting its products. With these budgets, the Government is putting Spain out of control and dragging us into a debt that will cost the future of our country. I will not answer such questions with my vote. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u177	Thank you, Mr. Martinez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Martínez Granados has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u178	Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you, President. Good afternoon, minister, thank you for your intervention. We are now discussing Section 20 on Industry, Trade and Tourism and the truth is that industry, trade and tourism miss it, Minister, as all sectors tell us every time we meet with them. It is true that you appear in many meetings, that you put your face and tell them that you are going to do things, but they really need it, they need it taking over a ministry that is very difficult, because it has a very important weight on the gross domestic product, but that it needs much more from you, minister. Our parliamentary group today welcomes the adoption of an amendment to declare the tourism sector a strategic sector in our country. I think we all have to celebrate it, because strategic sectors are crucial for their orientation to the international market and for their ability to drag on other sectors. With a contribution of 12%, before the crisis of COVID-19, in Spain the tourism sector met the above-mentioned characteristics in order to be a strategic sector. That is why we believe it is important that this amendment has been adopted, and I am sure that the tourism sector has welcomed it. But now comes the whole bitter part of these amendments which we have tabled, and which have been vetoed, to support the tourism sector, industry and trade. We asked for a multiannual fund for the tourism sector, 2022-2023-2024, of 20 million euros. For what? So that the tourism sector can program what it wants to do, how it wants to remodel it or how it needs to change it and, above all, to get out of the crisis many of the companies that belong to the sector, because not all are coming out of the crisis; not everything is going as fast as it is being said. It's going to be complicated and we still have to be careful, because the COVID is still there. Therefore, a multiannual fund. Why have you been vetoed, minister? It was easy to do. We've been asking for it for months, I'd say almost a year, and we've been disappointed that I didn't want to start it. We also call for VAT to be reduced to 4%, temporarily, in 2022 to help a sector that has indeed been one of the most affected by the crisis of COVID-19. Mobility has affected a lot. The nocturnal leisure sector has not been able to open its doors until relatively recently and still has over its head limitations of pitch or even what it can do or not do on the premises. Therefore, Minister, we believe that this fall in VAT was important for them and to accelerate this economic revival, which seems to be still one hundred percent. It was temporary, and we believe the government could afford it. The same goes for the reduction of VAT on electricity, something I will talk about with Minister Ribera. And, taking advantage of the fact that she is here, I would like to ask her to speak more with Minister Montero and to speak more with the Transitional Minister, Vice President Ribera, because her ministry needs her leadership, not theirs; she needs to ask for industry, for trade and for tourism. We have also asked - and it has been vetoed - for a reactivation plan for Imserso's trips. It is important for the Imserso to take a new role in that national market so that our elderly can continue to travel, do so safely and the tourism sector continues to receive the income that came from those national visitors, who are still feeling insecure and who do not yet have a clear mechanism to go to. We have also called for a programme to boost market unity and take advantage of economies of scale in the domestic market. The persistence of internal barriers in the Spanish market, which cannot be understood within the framework of a single European market, continues to lead to productivity gaps and lower capacity to absorb knowledge and technology in a highly fragmented market. The European Commission has already warned of the lack of cooperation between administrations, of freedom of establishment of commercial premises, of the different approaches in the autonomous regulations of retail trade, in time restrictions, in discounts, and all this results in more difficulties for trade. It was a very good opportunity to have adopted this amendment in the Commission. We also call for a supply chain support programme. We have suffered during this crisis a shortage of supplies of raw materials. The COVID pandemic has caused this unprecedented situation. We believe that a sufficiently gifted supply chain support program could help at times like these. Let us not forget that this is a warning of what can continue to happen until distribution problems are solved. It was a great opportunity, minister. We have also called for the promotion of renewable cogeneration, which is one of the most efficient ways to generate heat and electricity and to save carbon emissions and costs. Today, cogeneration already works mostly on the basis of natural gas, which saves considerable emissions by comparing it with the rest of fossil fuels. However, the gradual replacement of natural gas by renewable zero-emission gases should be promoted in cogeneration, as it is in other sectors such as industry, energy or climate change. It was a very important amendment, which could solve the problems facing the cogeneration industry. We have registered an amendment to implement a programme to boost competitiveness and industrial sustainability, which provides a fund - I repeat - for SMEs and self-employed people to reactivate for several years. The aid they are proposing now and during these months of pandemics often does not reach small businesses or the self-employed. Therefore, mechanisms and a programme of this kind are necessary in order for such aid to actually arrive. We ask the government for EUR 5 million, which the sector, SMEs and the self-employed will be grateful for. Finally, we have also called for the establishment of a prosecutor's office specialized in crimes against intellectual property. This amendment is introduced with the aim of creating a body that will put in place rapid procedures to detect repeated violations of intellectual property rights. It is a necessary measure to combat piracy and its harmful effects on the cultural industries. Minister, we have another problem with the implementation of these budgets. Last year there were several items for the tourism, industrial and trade sectors, but there was a lot of implementation. It doesn't matter what's approved here if it doesn't run, minister. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u179	Thank you very much, Mrs. Martínez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Rego Candaimil has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u180	Thank you, Madam President. The minister said in a previous intervention that the BNG considered these budgets also as an opportunity to tackle the serious industrial crisis in our country, Galicia, with a long list, unfortunately, of companies that have closed in recent months and in recent years or of companies in crisis that are key in a less industrialized country like ours and that are at risk of disappearing, with the consequent risk of thousands of jobs being lost. The list sounds like Vulcan, Barreras, Siemens-Gamesa, Poligal, Alu-Ibérica, Cerceda, As Pontes, Vestas, Alcoa. It is the list of despair, that of many people who see their job lost or who see their future endangered. And that is why we are absolutely convinced that the Spanish Government cannot and should not miss the opportunity of budgets to resolve these situations. That is why the BNG has tabled numerous amendments which have to do precisely with the solution to this industrial crisis. There are many amendments, but it is true that few are directly related to his ministry: that of SEPI depends on Finance, others on Ecological Transition, even some have a very direct relationship with the industrial development of the Ministry of Science and Research. We are concerned, because there is no very good communication and coordination, and this dispersion can affect the effectiveness of work that we consider essential. In any case, I'm going to talk about some that I think you know and that should help solve. Some, in fact, depend directly on the ministry. For example, we propose a plan to boost the recovery of the hotel industry, small business and tourism sector in Galicia, with 20 million euros, because we know that this is a sector that has suffered the consequences of the pandemic in particular and because, as I said, in a country that is very unindustrialised, like Galicia, the commercial sector and tourism have an important weight and, therefore, we must never let them go. In relation to Navantia, which is a fundamental economic and industrial hub in a region that is unfortunately in decline like Ferrol, it is necessary to act to recover all its productive capacity and to re-establish itself as a hub of economic activity. For this it is necessary to transform Navantia into an integral industrial complex, which bases its activity, logically, on shipbuilding and, in particular, on civil construction. In the BNG we always insist on this. We do not understand why Navantia Ferrol remains constrained to military construction, which is very limited. We know that there are some charges, which also include these budgets, the F110 frigates, but we believe that Navantia Ferrol should be opened up to civil shipbuilding and other complementary activities, and that is why we need to adapt the facilities, for which we are proposing an amendment. [[The Lord]] We also want to regain the potential of shipbuilding in the Vigo area, which is also a key sector. Vulcan has closed and Barreras is in crisis. We believe that, in fact, there can be a recovery of activity in Vulcan, can secure a future for Barreras and can also be done through the creation of a naval repair center in the Vigo ria, so that this city, which was historically Galician industrial lung, can also regain all its potential. This is why, in parallel, we propose a plan for the economic and industrial recovery of Vigo that allows to develop all the productive potential that this city has, mainly in strategic sectors such as naval or automotive. At the same time, although it depends on another ministry, we have tabled an amendment to support the picosatelite industry in southern Galicia in innovative projects that are proving successful and are being done in collaboration with the University of Vigo. It can also be a centre for employment generation in that area of Galicia. Alcoa. I think we all know that the only solution for Alcoa is public intervention. After months and months of looking for other alternatives, as you surely know better than I do, there is no other solution than Alcoa's public intervention. Therefore, in these budgets we proposed to the government that we accept our amendment or a transactional one that was in the direction of ensuring a solution through that operation Alcoa acquisition bridge by SEPI, to then be handed over to an industrial operator that presented a solvent, reliable and future industrial project and that the continuity of the activity in the region and the safeguarding of all the jobs. Unfortunately, there was no chance of reaching agreement on this, and we said, as we say now, that the BNG would vote in favour of these state budgets simply if the Government were to commit itself to an additional provision to Alcoa's public intervention, because we believe it is worth ensuring the continuity of this activity and all the jobs that are at risk in the A Mariña region. We are presenting an amendment to boost the City of ICT, in A Coruña, a project sponsored by the University of A Coruña to transform the old ships of the weapons factory into an ICT town in this city. In As Pontes, proposed to walk towards a just transition: a competitiveness center in R & D+i in energy storage, a robotic innovation center and autonomous vehicles and smart cities smart systems or the organization of an industrial ecopark that accommodates all this activity.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u181	Your Honor, you must finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u182	Finished. I believe that these are proposals that are not only just but absolutely necessary, and I believe that this Government really has enough sensitivity to understand an industrial crisis as serious as that in Galicia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u183	Thank you. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mrs Moralesja Gómez has the floor. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u184	President, Minister, the People's Party, and my chairman at the head, defend and support the industry of this country and its workers without crack. Can you and Mr. Sanchez's government say the same? No, I'm not. [[Applauds]] How is it explained if you do not always lose or are unable to impose yourself on your partner, the ideological transition minister, Mrs Ribera, whose decisions, each and every one of them, have been to harm the industry and empty their regions? Or how is it possible that she is unable to impose herself on Mrs Díaz, who only wants to repeal labour reform, something that neither industry nor its workers want? Mrs. Maroto, what has to happen in Spain for you to react? What has to happen? How many companies and how many of our industries have to close for you to react? How many regions have to be emptied in Spain for you to react? How many more layoffs does it take for you to react? We have been in the People's Party for a long time - since 2018 - warning them of the need to have a stable and competitive electricity price for the electro-intensive industry and for the industry in general, but we have heard excuses and approved a statute, which, as my colleague said before, did not serve for the electro-intensive industry. Meanwhile, the energy tariff continued to increase and the differential with other competing countries as well. The industry - already told my secretary general - from Basauri to Palos de la Frontera, passing through my land, begins to stop its activity by the cost of light. Do you know how many families have left behind? Industry still does not receive CO2 compensation that would allow European legislation and that correspond to the spectacular increase in emissions. As far as the year goes, only with revenues from emission allowances auctions, about EUR 3 billion. Look at whether Mr Sánchez would have the means and the margin to compensate the electro-intensive consumers; however, this year's budgets are on the contrary. This is leaving industry and its workers behind, Mrs Maroto. They've been talking about the loss of car I don't know how long. They introduced him in July, but we don't know anything about him, nothing. But we, the People's Party, know nothing about the sector. It's a shame, Mrs. Maroto. The People's Party has tabled amendments for the losses, for the electro-intensive, for the industrial sectors and for the trade sector, and you have not even read them, you have vetoed them. If you really defended the industry in this country, you would support them; but, as always, as far as budgets are concerned, you retweet the accounts to tell your story. [[Applauds]] You'll want to talk about the state pact for industry, but if they don't, be consistent. And no matter what the budgets say, no matter what, Chapter 8 takes 50 %. SMEs need help and urgency, what you have given them has been a fiasco. That is why listening to them now applauding these budgets is a joke of bad taste, when all sectors are on the street. Alcoa last week, yesterday the metal and the automotive ones, tomorrow the farmers. Is this what you call going on? Really, Mrs Maroto, you did not defend the industry, but, if you will not defend it, please resign. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u185	Thank you. Mr Almodóbar Barceló has the floor. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u186	Thank you very much, President. Minister, welcome once again to Congress. I would have liked it if this afternoon, in Congress, you, apart from coming to tell us how good the budgets you have presented, would have told all the Spaniards and all the Spanish tourism why they veto our amendments and why they vote against the rest, being as good as they are to help the tourism sector in the face of the biggest tourism crisis in its history. Why do you vote against or veto a reduction in VAT on tourist activities; or a reduction and bonus of air fares; or support and promotion measures to encourage tourism in unpopulated Spain; or the elimination and rejection of the introduction of tourist rates, as your partners in the Valencian Community are proposing. Or why they vote against implementing a strategic plan of gastronomic tourism brand Spain, or an extraordinary state program of travel and tourist experiences to encourage consumption, or a renewed plan for our hospitality, or a program to support the reactivation of travel agencies. Today we know that in October a thousand more travel agents have been left unemployed. Talk to them about fair recovery, talk to them about solid and robust recovery. Well, yes, ladies and gentlemen, you've said no to all this. That's right, pacting with Bildu, which is the same thing as losing the democratic soul and raising the salary, has not been forgotten. Shame on you. Look, the problem starts when Spain has a government that calls ICOs direct aid, when they are loans that companies have to pay. The problem is that, since we were the most competitive country in the world, the Government has not given the activity the importance it deserves. The problem is that, although you always have very good words and very good intentions, your ability to manage and influence the Council of Ministers shines through your absence, that is the problem. Despite their messages of excessive optimism, recovery is slow to arrive, many are at the limit. And with the threat of a sixth wave of the pandemic and the new restrictions imposed by the government on hospitality and tourism - always paying the same - it is already generating tremendous uncertainty and cancellations at one month of Christmas, with seventeen different rules and the government profile. The vote against our amendments to the budgets is more proof that the reality in which the government lives differs greatly from the reality in which the Spanish live; an opportunity that they have not been able to take advantage of with the European funds, which they have turned into a PlanE. But if even the municipalities can use them, for example, to eliminate graffiti, minister! Everything for the sector but without the sector, as always. Of the 27 billion included in the 2021 budgets, they have only implemented just over 5 billion, 21%, and a few days ago you say that 50% of the next year's budgets are already committed. What are those commitments? Why don't you explain them? Where are those funds going, Minister? How are they going to benefit the sector? And when I say the sector told him about the neighborhood's little travel agency, a souvenir shop or a hotel, however small it may be. There is no global strategy, no tractor projects. Look, the People's Party represents the urgent alternative that Spain needs in the face of the worst government of democracy, also in tourism. We have team, we have ideas, we have a great leader, we know how to manage and we have government experience. Yes, these are the budgets that Sanchez needs to keep himself in the Moncloa...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u187	Your Honor, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u188	... but they are not the ones that Spanish tourism needs to get out of the biggest crisis in its history. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u189	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Gómez-Reino Varela has the floor on a position-setting basis by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u190	Thank you, President. The deputy of the People's Party said that they have a great leader, a great leader who goes, to shame of all, to Mass by a Franco dictator. That's a great leader, Mr. Pablo Casado. [[Applauds]] This country, in the matter before us, has suffered a gradual dismantling of its industry, which began in the 1980s and which unfortunately has reverberated to this day. Industrial conversions, the privatization of leading public enterprises, the low levels of investment in R & D+i or the commitment to the monoculture of tourism and brick have left our industry far below the levels of countries of our environment. The governments of the People's Party, particularly Mr Rajoy's last government, which made budget cuts from EUR 1536 million in 2011 to EUR 1046 million in 2018, have obviously made a very important contribution to this. This is a decrease of 32% His most determined bet was to promote the greater competitiveness of Spanish companies through internal devaluation, that is, to compete through costs allowing wage reductions, mass layoffs and loss of labour rights of our industrial workers. This strategy, moreover, has not only proved to be useless in the face of the emergence of global actors with lower production costs, but has proved counterproductive because of the loss of competitiveness that has led many industrial plants to their closure in recent years. The outcome of their policies, in short, has been devastating. In 2018, the last year in which they ruled, the industry contributed only 16.2% of GDP, far from achieving the goals that we set ourselves today as a government and that are marked by the European Union. But at the economic and social level the fruits of their policies were even worse. Privatization, delocalization and decapitalization policies have generated transnational corporations that have led to the delocalization of productions. It is the case of companies like Alcoa, like Vestas or with entire regions of our geography that are in a very difficult situation. It is precisely this scenario that the governments of the right have generated, a scenario where, until now, violence, precariousness and waste jobs were too common in this country and in which the region of Cadiz has gone out into the street and has burst. From the utmost respect, we send you, also in this debate, also this afternoon, all our support to the workers of the Bay of Cadiz who, employing all the legitimacy of the right to strike, are fighting for their rights and for their future, which are ultimately the rights and the future of all. [[applause]] In the face of this drift of recent decades, the current coalition government has endeavoured to regain the leadership of industry as an engine of growth and decent and stable job creation, on the basis of improved competitiveness, investment, innovation and the dynamism of our SMEs. This is an active industrial policy aimed at transforming our productive model, with three main objectives: the reindustrialisation of the economy, the transformation of our industrial fabric to adapt it to the advancement of new technologies and international competition and adaptation to the ecological transition. All of this is based on a shared strategic vision and aligned with the EU's EU guidelines. In order to achieve these objectives, the budget allocated to the Ministry of Industry, Commerce and Tourism in this bill that we are debating today has increased significantly, by 70% compared to the appropriations of 2021, which is an additional €34 billion. This is in addition to the 74% increase already made in the 2021 budgets, which shows that, during the last two years with the coalition government, the budgetary momentum in the fields of industry, trade and tourism has broken with the abandonment and disorientation traditionally shown by the governments of the People's Party in these areas. Non-financial expenditure amounts to 83 % and expenditure dedicated specifically to industry and energy amounts to 200,2 %, with an additional EUR 2480 million. But, beyond the big figures, there are some points that we would also like to stress. First, much of the increase in resources will be allocated to the private sector for the development of innovation, development and investment projects. In our group we believe that priority should be given to the application of distribution criteria to ensure that a large part of the investment aid is allocated to the small and medium-sized enterprises, which are most in need and which form the real and most important productive fabric of this country. Turning all financing over large transnational corporations would not only be unfair, but would also be completely inefficient. In this context, we must ensure that these resources are used to drive a transformation with a certain degree of depth of our productive matrix. For this, it is necessary to develop effective monitoring mechanisms and to put forward a conditionality framework that guides supported projects towards priorities of public and social interest. Moreover, it is difficult to understand that transnational companies receiving public funds are the same that have so far taken advantage of the situation to relocate production or carry out staffing restructuring processes. For our group, it is essential and urgent for the State to take decisive action to prevent the disappearance of those strategic industries in danger of closure and to lead a process of industrial transformation that guarantees their future. In conclusion, I would like to say that this coalition government is putting industry at the centre of its policies, which we believe is essential and we welcome. We encourage the Minister and the Government to take the long way we still have to shape the industrial model that is truly sustainable in economic, environmental and, above all, that is committed, effective and transformative in social terms. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u191	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Rueda Perelló has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u192	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Good afternoon, minister. A year ago, in his appearance in this House to defend the General Budgets of the State, he stated and quoted: The Government has been responding through shock plans, first, and then, with the recovery plans, to initiate economic recovery. He's been talking about economic recovery again today. Do you really think that these budgets initiate economic recovery? Tell that to those who have lost their jobs, to those who have closed their business or even to those who are in ERTE watching with fear that an ERE is approaching. Minister, your shock plan has turned out to be a frontal shock plan and has led to an almost lethal blow to strategic sectors such as industry, trade and tourism. For example, in automotive, the Spanish Association of Automobile and Truck Manufacturers has warned of the sector's discomfort due to lack of effective measures. His party's veto of amendments to improve the situation of this industry shows its lack of support for his beautiful speeches: manufacturers of batteries, automobiles, components, dealers, auxiliary companies and the entire value chain need measures that allow us to position Spain at the level of the countries in our environment and not to face the uncertainty about the working environment, the lack of microchips, the drop in sales or the rise in the registration tax that will cause the price to rise and, therefore, the drop in demand. And they urgently ask him to activate the Party's funds, and to gather the automotive table, and they seem to be hearing deaf ears. Minister, they put the automotive industry at risk, but also the defence industry and the electro-intensive industry. And at this point I am going to address Podemos, because it results from an immoral political hypocrisy coming here to defend the workers of the industry when with their policies they are condemning to unemployment and misery. [[Applauds]] On top of that, I have to listen to the representative of Podemos again attacking tourism talking about tourism monoculture. It can't be more fake! [[Applauds]] In Spain, the industry is at risk as a result of its erratic policies - and those who preceded them - and because of the ideological deviations made of green that all they do is paint black on the future of the Spaniards. And not only does VOX say it, the industry is calling for green transit but it is not damaging competitiveness, because they are making us less and less competitive. And not only does it endanger industry, it also endangers trade and tourism. The aid announced has barely arrived, but its restrictions, prohibitions, work uncertainty, the massive rise in taxes, the bill for overflowing light, have arrived at a time when entrepreneurs and self-employed people need a tax reduction and certainty. He has talked about large numbers and tourism, for example, the reality is that 85% of the budget is dependent on European funds, and Europe has already taken its colours back because this government is not doing its homework well. I'm going to quote two headlines published today. One: The government has included 27 billion European funds in the 2021 budgets, but so far it has closed only 21 % of the total. Another holder: The Government has distributed only one in four budgeted euros to companies and self-employed affected by COVID. So, minister, from your watchman, please attend to the fruit tree of the neighborhood, to the travel agencies, to the hoteliers, to the night entertainment, to the merchants, to all the self-employed who make a great effort to lift the blind of their business every day. [[Applauds]] They've been waiting a year, and this isn't ideology, this is evidence. The days pass, and what happens? Perhaps for you a year is not much, but it is much for those who strive to keep their business open, for those who see months moving very fast and do not know how to pay rent or mortgage, for those who have to queue, for those who have their business who do not know how to reflect it or, even, for those who every night wonder: if I close, if they fire me, who will hire me because I am over fifty years old? Or even for young people waiting at home for their first job opportunity. Minister, your priority has not been to stimulate all the support measures that are necessary to prevent the deterioration of the productive fabric, as you said here a year ago, your priority has been your ideological agenda and that this Government keep its armchairs at a cost. These are not the recovery budgets. These are the budgets of ruin and betrayal. The ruin, because they are ineffective and because they are not balanced. Last year it gave the figure here: the budget had increased by 338 % and the sector is dying. Where's the money? I told you, minister: it's no more, it's better and it's more efficiency. And he spoke of treason, because they chose Otegi as their partner. Budgets for prisoners. Yesterday's terrorists are the ones who decide tomorrow for millions of Spaniards. Minister, they won't fool more than 40 million Spaniards anymore. Spain needs credible, realistic and efficient budgets and the Spaniards need to rebuild everything they are destroying. The Spaniards have suffered long years of division, ruin, attack, and with the Agenda Spain we will move forward against their globalist agenda, and we will move forward with the sole objective of protecting the Spaniards, of meeting their needs and of providing the next generations with a horizon of freedom, equality, prosperity, justice and respect, because this is VOX and we will arrive before late. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u193	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, Mr Soler has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u194	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, ladies and gentlemen of VOX, I do not know where you are going before anyone else, what we know is where you come from, and we are very concerned. [[Applauds]] I wanted to address the gentlemen of the PP, Mrs Moraleja, Mr Almodóbar. I understand that in life and politics there are good and bad weeks, and this one recognizes that it has not been one of the best. You were coming to this plenary of budgets and to this debate caressing the possibility that the Government would not reach an agreement to put forward the budget, but the work of the Government and with the political groups at the front has led to a positive agreement for this country. You too came to try to criticize that the government's support was not legitimate, that the Spanish enemies approved our budget, and yesterday my colleague Montse Mínguez showed you with his intervention that you have supported more Bildu amendments than the Socialist Party. [[Applauds]] They also meant that we approved the budgets with the support of the independenceists, of those who break this country, and also Montse Mínguez showed you yesterday that you have supported more amendments from Esquerra and Junts than the Socialist Party. [[Applauds]] That is the reality, the inconsistency between what you pose and what you do in truth. That's the People's Party, they say one thing on the one hand and they do another thing all the time. [[The lady]] That is the reality, the constant incoherence. It is true that when I was speaking yesterday Montse Mínguez, my partner, I no longer knew whether we had to continue to intervene or bring a screen and continuously display his intervention in a loop, because it was brilliant. [[Applauds]] The Ministry of Industry, Commerce and Tourism has - the minister has said with all luxury of details - 8300 million for the year 2022, the largest investment that has ever been made in this department, 3402 million more than the previous year, 70% more than a budget that was already twice the last one that you approved. Therefore, we have figures that are historical for this department. It is true that you are not interested in talking much about the figures and are going to another type of debate because the figures are really extraordinary to modernise the productive model of this country, to make it more sustainable, more digital and greener, to help our economic sectors improve their productivity and also their competitiveness. There is aid for productive investment, reindustrialisation, 650 million; for the loss for the electric vehicle next year, 1660 million; 702 million for industrial technological projects, 150 for digital transformation, 150 for innovation, 103 for refinancing of guarantees by Cersa, 98 million for participatory loans for SMEs, more than 700 million for tourism sustainability programmes; in short, an extraordinary amount. Also for the Canary Islands, for the Balearic Islands; for the autonomous cities of Ceuta and Melilla more than 100 million; programmes to support business growth; programmes to support the grouping of enterprises, to encourage companies abroad. In short, I think there are a lot of games that have always been expected. The economic sectors are not expecting it, Minister, what they are expecting - because you have it close to you - is this budget that is really effective for this country. [[Applauds]] That is what the economic sectors are waiting for. And the economic recovery we're not expecting, it's on, it's working, as the minister said. That is the economic recovery that the data backs up. The data show the most important thing. The most important thing - we have always said - in this country is employment, that we grow in employment. We currently have about 20 million people working in this country, the highest figure in the historical series of people affiliated with Social Security. That is what economic growth is all about. I have to remind you that this has been possible thanks to the government's policy, thanks to the launch of the ERTE, which has supported 3,600,000 people. You said - even today you have said - that the ERTE were going to become ERE. Is that still what they're talking about? Don't you know that 99% of people have already left the ERTE, that only 140,000 of the 3 600 000 people are left? Don't they know? [[Applauds]] Thanks to the ERs and ICOs, 600,000 companies, more than 100 billion euros in ICOs. Do you not know that hotel stays have grown, Mr Almodóbar, by 212%, that the average spending of a tourist has increased by 33 % and the average stay by 26 %? Of course, we have to continue to work to consolidate economic recovery, but these are facts that are happening right now and that show that things are going better in this country, that the economic effort that has been made for a long time with the ERTE, with the ICOs, with the social shield, has been transcendental to reach this moment, and that thanks to the government's policy, which has forced the European Union to support with the mechanisms of which we have been endowed and that this country is one of the main beneficiaries, we are emerging from the crisis and we are having resources to consolidate change and economic growth. I understand that you don't like this. I understand that when the data were bad, it was the fault of the Government, and now that they are good, it is no longer known whose responsibility it is. We do not mean that they are the responsibility of the Government, they are the responsibility of Spanish society with the Government at the front. [[Applauds]] We've all done it, all of us working together. [[Applauds]] We don't want the government to recognize it, no. We do not want them to be recognized by the Government, but by the effort of science, yes by the efforts of the health workers, by the effort of collective vaccination, that which Married said was going to take four years and that it has been implemented mostly in our country in less than a year. Recognize science, health care, public servants, all the people who are working and who have made it possible in this country.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u195	Mr. Soler, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u196	The Socialist Party is with all these people. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u197	Thank you very much, Mr Soler. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Section 21, Agriculture, Fisheries and Food The next item is the debate on section 21, Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food. For the section presentation, I have the floor on behalf of the Government, the Minister for Agriculture, Fisheries and Food.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u198	Good afternoon, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I appear before the House to set out the main lines of the draft State General Budgets for 2022 in the appropriations entered in Section 21, which corresponds to the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food. The content of Section 21, as it could not be less, is situated in the same dynamic as the rest of this draft law on the general budgets of the State, that is, the dynamism and transformation of the Spanish economy and its recovery towards new objectives for all citizens, territories and sectors, which we obviously want to be fair, and it is essential that the European funds, both the common agricultural policy and the Plan for Recovery, Transformation and Resilience, should also be referred to them - because they are for the agricultural world - as well as the Plan for Recovery, Transformation and Resilience. The budget of the Ministry of Agriculture exceeds last year's budget by more than 5%. Specifically, the consolidated budget amounts to EUR 8934 million, which is EUR 438 million more than in the previous period, and last year also grew significantly. This is undoubtedly the largest budget in the history of the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food. In addition, EUR 503 million from the Recovery and Resilience Mechanism is included, all in an approach that is to achieve in these budgets a promotion of innovation and the consolidation of the competitiveness and profitability of the agricultural, livestock and fishing sectors, as well as of the agri-food industry. In any case, I would say that strategically these budgets tend to support the transition to more sustainable food systems, in that transition necessary to also achieve a more just and fairer functioning of the food chain. The primary sector is, ladies and gentlemen, a strategic part of our economy; it demonstrated it during the pandemic and is demonstrating it in this recovery playing a central role, as I say, in the whole of our economy, and it has to do it in just conditions. That is why the bill amending the food chain law that this House will pass next week is key for the whole of our country. There are two elements that I would like to emphasise in the budget of the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food as regards, logically, European funds. Firstly, the common agricultural policy, the management of Community funds, because they are essential in order to maintain the income of our farmers and to a good number of the objectives to which I shall refer later. In this budget for the year 2022, these funds are increased by 3.6% compared to the figures for the year 2021. They are exactly EUR 7426 million from the European Agricultural Guarantee Fund and the European Rural Development Fund. The first pillar, that of the Feaga, reaches 5682 million euros, and the EAFRD an expenditure of 1744 million euros. With regard to the first pillar, direct aid, farmers' income support has a budget of EUR 2805 million, a very significant amount; climate and environmental benefit payments of EUR 1386 million; production-related aid for sectors in difficulty with sensitive socio-economic problems has EUR 612 million, of which 76% is dedicated to our livestock, especially to extensive livestock and the dairy sector. The payment supplement to young farmers in the amount of EUR 54.4 million, as well as the sectoral and market aid and measures programmes in the amount of EUR 555 million, which support sectors such as wine, fruit, vegetables, the beekeeping programme or school fruit and milk programmes, is also included. Finally, I would like to mention in this section what concerns the support programme for the Canary Islands, the Poseican, which has €268.4 million of support, which is tremendously important, in addition to the 18 million, which I will mention later, financed by the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food. With regard to measures to support rural development, these are financed by European funds in the amount - as I said earlier - of EUR 1744 million, but co-financed by the General Administration of the State and the Autonomous Communities. In particular, as far as the State is concerned, co-financing will amount to EUR 158.6 million, an increase of 50 % over the year 2021. In this way, we want to strengthen the State's support for rural development measures as part of the new programming 21-27 of the common agricultural policy. These rural development measures are as important as investments in farms and agri-food industries, installation of young farmers, agri-environmental measures and organic farming, aid to areas with natural constraints or support for local initiative in rural areas through Leader groups. With regard to the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan, we will count on 503.6 million for 2022, an amount of which we will devote 303 million to the modernization of irrigation, which is a fundamental element for the environmental transformation of the sector and economic recovery. This is a fundamental chapter in the work of the ministry because, of course, it is one of the most significant from the environmental point of view and from the point of view of the productivity of our farms. The improvement in the competitiveness of agriculture and livestock will count on EUR 118.3 million to modernize farms with precision agriculture, another EUR 10 million will be allocated to computer developments to facilitate the best application for users of the common agricultural policy and, finally, the strategy of digitisation of the agri-food sector and the rural environment will have a budget of EUR 14.8 million. As far as agriculture and food is concerned, the General Secretariat will have EUR 503.5 million, 12.2% more than the previous year, and I would like to state the main priorities telegraphically. The first of these, production quality and agricultural markets, to increase the competitiveness and sustainability of agricultural and livestock holdings, EUR 45.9 million. The modernisation of machinery and agricultural technology will count on EUR 6.6 million, is the commitment to the Renovation Plan of the agricultural machinery, in addition to what we have stated in relation to Saeca for the credits, for the guarantees in relation to the loans for the acquisition of new machinery. Likewise, the allocation of the promotion to beekeeping, with 4.7 million euros, and the enhancement of the sustainability and competitiveness of livestock biodiversity, especially as regards native breeds of Spain, 4.9 million euros; the improvement of the health of agricultural production, 20 million for animal health and 15 million for plant health, to improve the infrastructures and buildings of the national reference laboratories and, also, to improve the resilience of the agri-food system to the impact of emerging pests and diseases - a matter of maximum topicality within the framework of the concept of a single health - also the support for external trade and control at the agricultural and livestock borders,500,000 euros more, for international control of goods - we are currently in a net export balance of 57,400 million euros, with a trade balance of more than 20 billion euros, a record number, without a doubt, of our economy and of our agri-food sector -. I would also like to mention the strengthening of material and human resources of the Food Information and Control Agency, which is essential for the implementation of all the reforms that we have introduced in this reform that the House will consider next week and that we are carrying out last year of the food chain law. As far as food promotion is concerned, EUR 14.9 million more. In these chapters on rural development, innovation and agri-food training, EUR 158.6 million, as mentioned above, to co-finance rural development programmes, as well as new, very interesting programmes, for example, the Culture Programme for the exchange of young people and the experiences of young farmers, farmers and livestock within Spain, EUR 1 million and also for rural women with a budget of EUR 1.5 million. On the subject of digital transformation for the promotion of training and counselling, specifically, a figure close to EUR 5 million. As I indicated above, in the Ministry's own funds budget, 18 million euros in support of the Posei for the Canary Islands. I would not like to conclude this short telegraphic statement without mentioning the nearly EUR 7 million that we are going to use in order to multiply them up to EUR 90 million in terms of the European Fund for Food Aid for the Most Disadvantaged, with EU funding. In the fisheries chapter, the General Secretariat for Fisheries will have €72.8 million. It is 11.2% more than in 2021 and, with the sum of the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan, it delivers a total of EUR 130.3 million. All this in two budgetary programmes: the protection of fisheries resources and sustainable development, and the improvement of fisheries structures and markets, in particular to support producer organisations and promote business management, improved planning, competitiveness and profitability, and also to strengthen the competitiveness of the aquaculture sector through technological development and innovation. Similarly, we will develop the social pillar of the fisheries sector, advancing towards effective gender equality in this sector, and promoting participatory local development, through the Spanish Network of Fishing Groups. This entire budget focuses on the management of the European Maritime and Fisheries Fund, EUR 8 million, or the consolidation of the Spanish leadership in the fight against undeclared and unregulated illegal fishing, to which will be dedicated EUR 10,5 million for fisheries control and inspection activities. The 57.5 million that we will implement in the fisheries sector under the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan will focus on the modernisation of marine reserves of fisheries interest, fisheries research - which is essential for the sustainability of the activity, through collaboration with the main scientific institutes - and fisheries training actions, as well as technological development and innovation in the fisheries and aquaculture sector for the boost of blue growth in Spain, and finally on aid for fisheries digitisation and for the means of surveillance of the fishing fleet. Finally, I refer to one of the most beloved chapters in the activity of this ministry, a chapter I would say substantial, which refers to the policy of agricultural insurance. It originated in 1978 and is a fundamental pillar of agricultural policy; it is a reference model throughout the European Union, of which we can be very proud, and which allows an effective tool for maintaining incomes and the economic viability of farms, in the face of the occurrence of accidents that escape the control of farmers and farmers, such as those caused by adverse natural phenomena. We are going to devote EUR 256.7 million to all this, and with regard to the subsidy for agricultural insurance premiums. Last year we recovered 23 million euros; this year we added 3 more in order to increase, also with the support of the autonomous communities, those insurance premiums that are so important to our farmers and winners. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I conclude. These are budgets for the recovery in the agricultural, livestock, fishing and in general for the whole agri-food sector, which are clearly aimed at relaunching our economy, strengthening the agri-food sector and modernizing its productive fabric, in line with the new challenges and transformations posed by this decade towards the sustainability of agri-food production, as well as promoting equal opportunities and territorial cohesion in Spain. We will make every effort to make it an effective instrument for a more modern, efficient and fairer primary sector - agriculture, fisheries, food. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u199	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] In defence of amendments, the Joint Parliamentary Group has the floor, Mrs Oramas González-Moro.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u200	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm finally getting back up here. I'm going to tell you that I'm a congresswoman from a distant archipelago, from the Canary Islands. The French call their islands the overseas islands and have a minister, just like the Portuguese. And I say far away because with these budgets at the end of the Canary Islands it will be further away: further away from recovery, further away from young people's opportunities, further away from poverty and, above all, more desperately on the island of La Palma. We have tried; I have to thank Montse, the PSOE's Finance Spokesperson, very much because she tried. We, the Canary Islands, had very much hope in these budgets, because, as the brilliant spokesman of the Socialist Party said a moment ago in the field of industry and tourism, Spain fought for European funds and was among the most benefited because it had been one of the most affected by COVID. But we hoped that this criterion that Europe applied for the distribution of funds for the reconstruction of the COVID, when arriving in Spain will apply within the territory, but not. That is why the Canary Islands in the end, in the reconstruction funds, because it is the most affected community of the COVID, where the GDP has fallen more, with 10 points more unemployment, with three times more youth unemployment than the rest of Spain, does not have the funds that correspond to it if the criterion of distribution of the European Union is applied. This is one of the reasons why we are going to vote no to these budgets. The second reason why we are going to vote is not the following. I have been here for a few years, and there were amendments that the PSOE presented to me when the PP has an absolute majority: a policy different from the Canary Islands' area fees, an educational infrastructure to make it an Employment Plan and to create vocational training centres, all that was a Special Plan for Tourist Infrastructures, the Canary Islands' research centres because the policy of area fees had to be changed; we tabled the amendments and the Socialist Party did not allow them to be voted on by more than 60%. He vetoed them. But I did not lose hope in the Commission, because there were two more reasons. There are no departures for the autonomous community to care for immigrant minors. Today fourteen people have died arriving in the Canary Islands, they have a thousand this year. 20,000 people have arrived. Canary Islands hosts almost 3000 minors and there are departures for the Ministry of Immigration and Interior, but not for a community that has neither the possibility nor the capacity to integrate. And Álvaro Cuesta, our colleague, who was at a certain time a socialist MP, has been there today and has said that we must give dignity to the reception of immigrants. He said it today; not me. And there isn't either. The REF and the statute are not fulfilled, but I come now to explain why I fought this week in the Commission with conviction before all the groups. And today I have no fury like other times, I have sadness. In these budgets there is not a single item for the island of La Palma. There's not a single game for palm trees. The business fabric, the social fabric, has been destroyed. Under the lava are the schools, the health centers. Did you know that now you have to take the dead to Tenerife to incinerate them, because the only incinerator in La Palma is under the lava? Fishermen, agriculture, honey, small and medium-sized enterprises... And, well, we all had political unity because it was going to overthrow the state. Help hasn't arrived. There is no help for people with mental and psychological problems. There's no help at all. And what has been said, it will come, but it is not enough. The Government of the Canary Islands in a first assessment, which has worsened in recent days, has said that it is €900 million in revenue. So, what we asked in the Canary Coalition were those amendments so that the palm trees were certain that next year, the next year and the other year there would be 700 million to rebuild the island of La Palma, and that the palm trees would not have to go back to Cuba and Venezuela as were their parents and grandparents. And there aren't. And there aren't. No, no, The Socialist Group and the Government say that there will be them and that they will be removed from the Contingency Fund. Why don't they put it in so the palm trees know, because what they want now is certainty? They want to know how much they're going to have and when. ICO credits for palm SMEs have been voted against. There has been a vote against mental health care for palm trees. It has been voted against specific aid for those who are indirectly affected - the minister was with them - for example, the carriers of La Palma, who worked with their trucks in the banana trees that are under the lava. But the carrier is considered to have an indirect affected van. They say, "No. There are 200 million because 9000 euros will come to each company when it rebuilds it. All those industrial polygons that are under the lava, and you tell one person who has stayed with one hand in front and another behind: rebuild, and when you have finished rebuilding I give you 9000 euros. I'm done, Madam President. What I want to say is that he did not throw away the towel from here to Thursday - I really say this to the Socialist Party, to the Government, to Podemos, to all the political forces - so that we could all put in those items of the next year's budgets and the following the funds that the island of La Palma needs, so that they can be sure that it no longer depends on whether there are elections, a Council of Ministers or a more or a promise, that it is and that it is supported by all the groups, whether it be the Canary Coalition or the PSOE or the PP. There's something about politics. And politics has to respond to an island like La Palma and the Canary Islands.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u201	Mrs. Oramas, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u202	Today we continue to vote no to these budgets, because they are not the ones who need the distant land that is Canary Islands. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u203	Thank you, Mrs. Oramas. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. Guille. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Martínez Granados has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u204	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, we are now talking about the amendments that Citizens have tabled for this section, which were trying to introduce measures or initiatives to help this transition, and that also the agricultural and livestock sectors may need the changes that will be imposed by this national strategic plan resulting from the approval of the CAP. One of them was the creation of a scientific advisory office for a plan to boost sustainability and competitiveness. This office would contribute to the work of the Government and the Courts-General and ensure that regulation is always aligned with the latest possible scientific evidence, with a particular impact on areas such as the modernization of animal and plant health laboratories, the encouragement of training in scientific and digital skills for farmers, farmers, forestry and fishermen, as well as the provision of collective investment platforms for small and medium-sized farmers and agricultural cooperatives so that they can opt for a technology facility to help them take advantage of potential economies of scale. It also establishes a programme of collaboration between the Administration, the academic research sector and the agricultural sector to facilitate the adoption of technological advances by enterprises and workers, as well as to promote new forms of precision agriculture to improve energy efficiency and the circular economy in the sector. In a context as difficult as the pandemic, we have seen that the agricultural sector has ensured food supply to our country at the most difficult times in our recent history. In fact, the agricultural sector, livestock and forestry have been some of the sectors that have grown the most over 2019, as they have maintained their activity during this crisis of the COVID-19. Despite this importance, the fact is that the agricultural sector in Spain faces several important risks such as generational relief, adaptation of the sector to the effects of climate change in a context where serious disasters such as droughts, droughts or storms are increasingly common and, lastly, facilitate the adoption of new trends by farmers, farmers, forestry workers and fishermen so that they can take advantage of innovation in favour of greater productivity, and above all to achieve better margins in their activity. We believe that the creation of this agency or institution would be a little easier for our farmers, farmers and fishermen. We have also tabled an amendment to ensure that there is an active promotion plan for the GECO Programme on Collective Management of Contracts in Origin, in Spanish-American countries with which Spain has not yet signed these instruments of collaboration in the field of recruitment, such as Bolivia, Chile, Colombia and Costa Rica. With this mechanism, with this collective management we will allow workers who do not reside in Spain to be selected in countries of origin from generic offers presented by employers here, in our country. This programme has traditionally been used with Moroccan workers, however, the closure of borders decided by Rabat during the pandemic and other misconceptions of migration policies between Spain and Morocco have made it difficult for these workers to arrive, so it seemed to us very important that this amendment be taken into account, because we could facilitate those moments where our agriculture and livestock need labour and do not find it, thus helping the sector very much. We have also tabled an amendment to ensure that there is a plan to boost the penetration of renewable energy and gas into the agricultural sector. As I said, it is necessary to ensure that the Spanish countryside does not lag behind in the decarbonisation of the economy, given the potential contribution they can make to this transition. This would benefit both the penetration of energy and renewable gases into our economic model, and we would also help to boost or even reduce costs in the sector itself. I would also like to highlight an amendment that we have tabled so that training grants for the agricultural sector can be envisaged. As we have said, it is a sector that has a problem with generational relief and we believe that it would be important to train new farmers, at least equal to the realization of other related activities and projects, in order to match their knowledge and also in view of that generational relief that the Spanish field needs. It would be quite important if we were to attract talent and win both agriculture and livestock as a sector. Finally, we have tabled an amendment to ensure that there is a plan to strengthen health and plant health controls. We believe that this is important, because since 2010 the European Union has signed about twenty trade agreements, but it was not entered into at all and it was only about exports and imports. In recent years, the need for these trade agreements to be not limited to the mere lifting of tariff barriers has become more apparent, but rather that we could enter more fully and be accompanied by a regulatory commitment to minimum standards of quality, sustainability, respect for labour rights and protection of the environment, and, of course, that trade opening is not accompanied by a competitive playing field that is unbalanced with the problem of plant protectionists that still exists. We therefore believe that it would be interesting if this reinforcement of a plan to help could be approved and that there would be no unfair competition from Spain vis-à-vis other countries through this amendment. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u205	Thank you very much, Mrs. Martínez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Cañadell Salvia has the floor for the Plural Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u206	Thank you, President. Minister, looking at the percentage of the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food in the draft budget, we see clearly that the sector is not being recognized as important as it has been during the pandemic. We have all referred to agriculture, livestock and fisheries as an essential sector and, in our humble opinion, that essentiality is not reflected, it is not reflected in the draft budgets. We believe that his ministry's budgetary contribution is substantially improved, as a sector we have considered essential accounts for only 1.9 % of the total budget. Our group has tabled a number of amendments with the aim of improving the day-to-day operation of the sector; on the one hand, to the article on the adequacy of the costs of agricultural electricity supply, the historical demand of the sector and of the various agricultural organizations, asking the Government to establish a form of access contract for irrigation that provides for the possibility of having two different powers over twelve months depending on the need for supply to carry out the activity and to present a plan to promote energy efficiency in farms in order to comply with the provisions of the first final provision of Law 1/2018. On several occasions and today in your speech, we have heard you talk about important issues for the improvement of the sector and its own survival, such as water saving, energy efficiency, improvement of farms and support for the modernisation and digitisation of farms. The draft budgets that we are discussing include within the Recovery and Resilience Mechanism EUR 303 million for water saving and energy efficiency in agriculture. Our group tabled an amendment for the modernization of the Canal d'Urgell, in the demarcation of Lleida, a vital project for the agri-food development of five regions, with a total irrigation area of 75,000 hectares. The main objective is to achieve an essential qualitative leap in the sustainable use and protection of water resources, to create an ecosystem irrigation supported by the environment with the creation of a green infrastructure and its heritage recovery. Minister, there is a saying that whoever follows gets it. On this occasion, the amendment has not been accepted by the Government, but I would like to express my intention to continue working to make this project a reality in the near future. It is a fundamental project for the development and prosperity of the demarcation it represented. We are faced with a price crisis, with many livestock farms, including the dairy sector, which do not cover production costs, and we expect the effective implementation of the Food Chain Act as water in May. The Government has the responsibility in its hands and through policies must add the necessary efforts to make the sector viable, promoting tax incentives and reducing fixed costs, supporting the renovation processes of the agricultural machinery fleet and promoting the digitisation and modernization of the sector. From the Democratic Party we will continue to row in favour of this basic, crucial and strategic sector for the rural economy and, fundamentally, in the fight against rural depopulation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u207	Thank you very much, Mrs. Cañadell. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mrs Marcos Ortega has the floor first.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u208	Good night, Minister, Madam President. Do you really believe that these are the budgets for recovery, Minister? It will be for the recovery of your partners. If not, this is not explained. It is not explained how they are able to play with one of the emblems of this country as is the Rioja Designation of Origin, and only by a handful of votes. It's amazing this is happening. Indeed, I am not surprised that Mr Quatrecasas has no opinion, as he said this afternoon. This is a robbery and it is a real shame for the sector. [[Applauds]] The biggest budgets in history: you'll tell me who for. If we have the largest budget in history and it turns out that the CAP has in direct aid EUR 138 million less, to see who that money comes to. If you are satisfied with 0.75% of the 140 billion of the recovery funds, I would say that, rather than historical budgets, these are the budgets for the submission of the Socialist Party and the submission of agriculture to the rest of the ministries. How can we say that these are historical budgets, when the sector is bearing the highest production costs it has ever had? Explain to us how the energy can be paid with these budgets an additional 270 % without impacting it on the shopping basket. Tell the dairy farmers in Galicia, Asturias, Castile and León or Cantabria why, if at best they have risen a cent, they have to bear the cost of feed a 30% more expensive. Explain to the producers of vegetables and fruits of Valencia, Murcia, Aragon and Andalusia, who manifest themselves tomorrow, why they can't sell anymore and are losing market in Europe. [[Shows a press clipping]] They will explain this very clearly: because they have to pay 50% more for the subsidy, 33% more for the water and 30% more for the wage costs, besides having to fix the temporary ones, which they cannot bear, logically. [[Applauds]] Tell me how a farmer or a farmer in La Mancha, Extremadura or the Basque Country can withstand these climbs. Look how simple they have put it, so that everyone understands it, socialist gentlemen. [[Show a sign]] This is what is happening in the agricultural sector: 150% more expensive fertilizer, 250% fertilizers, 73% diesel. Tell me how many have cars and electric tractors or how many will have the Falcon to go to the land and not have to pay the toll on the highways. Minister, the sowing of cereal on my land in Palencia has been replaced by plantings of solar plates, because for that there is money; for agriculture, no. But it turns out that it does not generate wealth or labour and only leaves desolation and depopulation in our peoples. The proposals of the People's Party are not being supported. Not a single amendment adopted; all, absolutely all vetoed. You'll tell me there's no need for watering money. He will tell me that with 40 billion euros, the budget with the most investment in history, we have to bear that there is not 5 billion, that there is no money for agricultural insurance, that there is no more money for machinery, for young people and women, that there is no more money to bear the wolf's attacks. But we made it easy for him. Last week, while you had all the proposals of the People's Party, the Committee on Agriculture approved that there should be investments for irrigation - only the Socialist Party voted against - and double electric billing, as my predecessor has just commented to you. It has already been approved by the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development. And an urgent shock plan...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u209	Mrs. Marcos, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u210	... to reduce the production costs of the agri-food sector, avoid closures of farms and ensure that the food is Spanish. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u211	Thank you very much, Mrs. Marcos. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the same parliamentary group, Mr García Díez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u212	Minister, for the fisheries sector these are the forgotten budgets. The first is when the Government talks about policies to reactivate and modernize the productive fabric and not once in these measures mentions the fisheries sector or the sea-industry chain. They forget, therefore, the women and the men that during the entire pandemic, from the first moment, without masks, without PPE, without protective measures were in the ships, in the fisheries and in the slices guaranteeing the products of the sea. They forget about them in these budgets. [[Applauds]] They also forget the main problems that affect the sector today, such as the lack of crews, of professionals, in short, of generational relief. And forgetfulness is serious because in that document they talk about youth, saying it's their main bet. And, curiously, there is not a single mention of fishing between measures for young people. That's how we're going to guarantee generational relief. They forget a lot of things. As regards the dissemination and promotion of fishery products, we propose a greater effort, but they also rejected it, just as they refused to lower VAT on these products in their day. If to date these budgets stand out in something it is in the abundance of ads, propaganda, autobomb. In the press release that his ministry drew when it presented these budgets it was said: 'The fishing sector will be at the center of the country's economic recovery and will play a key role in the recovery of the economy'. And he added, intercomilado in his mouth: 'This is the largest investor budget in the history of the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food'. Of course, it has forgotten one thing - another I forget - that fishing accounts for 0.8 % of that budget. That's a big oblivion. We also have forgotten about the issues of European funds. He has just mentioned them here, but he has not told us that those who will arrive in Spain when they arrive in the fisheries sector will only account for 0.18 %, another great oblivion. And he forgets to say that the biggest budget increase - he mentioned a moment ago - is devoted, with more than 10 million, to the control and surveillance of the fishing fleet, to inspections and to control. It is the most controlled and monitored fishing fleet in the European Union. When the control regulation, which is under discussion in the trialogues, is not yet adopted, the Government is throwing away the towel and is already implementing control measures. And don't tell me, as they said in the Commission, that the People's Party is not in favour of fighting illegal fishing, because when it ruled the People's Party it was a world example, and when it ruled the Socialist Party we were given the biggest sanctions in the European Union for not controlling fishing, which we are still paying today. [[Applauds]] Nor does it inspire much confidence not only in the figures, but also in the implementation, and I say this in the light of the budget implementation data of 2021 on the Recovery and Resilience Mechanisms, because as of 30 September only 3,8 % have been implemented. We are hardly confident in the figures you are announcing. Finally, I would like to say that we do not forget how this government punishes or ignores the way of life of our fishermen, of shellfish, of the people who are at the head of their businesses in the fisheries. Examples not only of his ministry, but of this Government are the Climate Change Act, the improvement of the food chain or the prohibition of fishing for margarita, all of which denotes a lack of awareness of the reality or evidence that they are prisoners of approaches of a rancid ecology that spanned many of his government partners. In short, Madam President, our amendments seek to correct the drift of an erratic course that does not wish the arrival at a good port for the Spanish fishing sector, the most important in Europe.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u213	Mr. García, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u214	He'll reject them, no doubt. But also, without a doubt, the management of this Government will receive the majority rejection when it comes to expressing it in the ballot box. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u215	Thank you very much, Mr. García. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Franco Carmona has the floor in position-setting by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u216	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, we have no doubt that the budgets of the Ministry of Agriculture for this year consolidate important and necessary items to boost the sector in Spain. I have to tell you it's a shame Mr. Married isn't here, because he wanted to give you some explanations, he won't thank me, but I'm going to do it anyway, even if he's not here. For those who can tell it from me in the People's Party: a farmer doesn't milk olive trees and goats don't sow. What I mean by this is that it is not the farmer who gets up at five in the morning to milk, it is the farmer or the farmer. [[Applauds]] Perhaps it would be good if he stopped showing himself by saying nonsense like this and passing more through the fields of our land and less by mass to genocidal and fascists like Franco. I'll leave it there and hope you'll take a walk. As I said, this budget relaunches public policies to boost agriculture and fisheries and the food sector, increasing its budget allocations by EUR 438 million, which is in addition to that made in 2021 by 11.7 %, thus consolidating an appropriation already amounting to EUR 8934.5 million, which represents 5.16 % of the budget increase. With this increase in resources dedicated to the primary sector, the setbacks perpetrated by the People's Party Government between 2011 and 2018, which entail a loss of more than EUR 1 billion and the abandonment, therefore, also for our primary sector, are completely reversed. With regard to increases in budget allocations focused on specific programmes to support the agricultural, livestock and fisheries sectors for their protection, modernisation and training in the face of environmental, technical, economic and technological challenges, these budgets are moving towards a fair recovery in key areas of innovation and economic growth in order to contribute to the equal opportunities and social and territorial cohesion of our country. Thus, we also understand that the budgetary forecast geared towards the commitments made by the EFTA that result from the new food chain law - which, as you have said, next week we will finally approve and publish in the EB - must become a fundamental tool for defending income levels in the field and achieving fair prices and a balanced value chain. The dairy sector is rightly complaining because dairy companies are not paying them at least what they are struggling to produce, and that food chain law, once published in the BOE, is going to give them all the tools, and there will be the EAEC also so that they finally collect fair prices. The commitment of this budget to generational empowerment, policies for the advancement of women in the fisheries and agro-farming sectors and the allocations committed to rural development and the fight against depopulation should be highlighted. In terms of rural development, under the People's Party government between 2011 and 2018 these policies were reduced by around 28%, which means that one in four euros was stolen from our camp. However, in 2021 this ministry increased these items by 20% and has now increased them by 28%, which means an increase of 692 million euros, to reach the figure of 1968 million euros in implementing development policies, so that our peoples of what some call emptied Spain and which we see as areas that have been abandoned for decades and, therefore, we prefer to call Spain the opportunities to reconcile this country with the future will be able to develop their policies. We also highlight the games for the empowerment of associationism and the improvement of agricultural machinery. Sixty per cent of tractors in our fields are over twenty years old, and with these parts they will be able to improve and renew these machinery. There is also a need for greater control over the entry into Spain of agricultural, beekeeping and livestock products from third countries which do not meet the plant protection, social and animal health requirements required for our productions, which causes significant price distortions, causing prices to fall for local producers. This budget strengthens resources for border control of imported products to improve the information and certification system, which can only be very good news. In the area of irrigation, funding is provided to cover the period of completion of the National Rural Development Programme 2014-2020 for the implementation of the CAP Strategic Plan. Finally, as far as the fisheries sector is concerned, this budget is strongly committed to fisheries: it ends the cuts of up to 49.3% of the People's Party's Government between 2011 and 2018, the protection of the development of our fisheries resources is increased by 5.2%, up to 11.4% for the improvement of structures, there is also a strong increase with the Recovery and Resilience Mechanism...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u217	Mrs. Franco, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u218	I'm on my way, President. There is an increase for the modernisation of the fishing fleet and the monitoring of the marine reserve and there is an increase of 52 % in transfers to fisheries organisations. In conclusion, I have to say that it is a good budget for our agri-food and fisheries sector, being aware that it brings many difficulties and that with it it will be able to move forward. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u219	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Chamorro Delmo has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u220	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good afternoon, Minister. Sadly, I have to repeat what I told you last year and I have to reiterate that these general state budgets follow the erratic policies carried out in Spain by the People's Party and the Socialist Party in the Spanish primary and agri-food sector: lack of national commitment to the primary and food sectors, total financial and ideological dependence on Brussels funds and blind obedience to global agendas. We see that this budget is strongly conditioned by the obligations and dictates of the 2030 Agenda and other global, climate and ecological agendas that drive fair competition and food prices. And we must underline the total complicity of the People's Party and the Socialist Party, as well as that of its partners in Podemos, in supporting those globalist policies that bring down the Spanish agricultural sector and their unquestionable support for free trade agreements, such as those in Mercosur, South Africa or Morocco, which destroy our agricultural and productive fabric. What is the result of these policies? The ruin of an important part of family farms and livestock, the abandonment of crops, prices that do not cover production costs, unfair competition from third countries products, relocation to foreign countries of our agri-food companies, clear imbalance in the food chain, widespread depopulation in rural areas due to the lack of opportunities and profitability of these farms in the primary sector. These budgets are apparently 5.16% higher than the consolidated total budget of the previous year, the current figure is EUR 8934.5 million. However, the context is not the same as last year, because, as can be seen, this 5% increase in budgets does not compensate for the increase in the costs incurred with this government. For a few months there has been an uncontrolled increase in production costs in the Spanish agricultural sector, with the increase in raw materials and in the auxiliary industries necessary for production. For example, the price of fertilizers has increased by 300 %, electricity by 270 %, diesel by 73 % and feed by 23 %. For these reasons, the primary sector is at the limit and with thousands of farms that are now on the verge of their disappearance. This situation cannot surprise anyone, let alone you, because farmers have already expressed their tiredness before the pandemic, but have stalled their demands to ensure food supply to the population at the time of the health crisis. Today they return to the street again and tomorrow they will be in front of their ministry the whole fruit and vegetable sector defending that they put a solution to that rise in costs. VOX will be with them. [[Applauds]] Spain has also suffered the highest inflation in the last three decades. The Spaniards already notice it in their pockets and in the most basic foods. In this situation of inflation, the cost of living is increasing. The truth of the matter, after all that has been said, is that there is no favourable ecosystem in Spain for entrepreneurship and investment in the agricultural sector. I also remind you of the brochure of the Animal Welfare Act and the hydrological plans of your partner Ribera who wants to finish - it seems - livestock and agriculture. Nor do they help the campaigns of the Ministry of Agriculture. The last expensive campaign to promote organic farming is launched under the slogan 'Nothing to hide'. Minister, it is very clumsy on your part to confront the ecological model with other models, which according to your campaign has much to hide - we don't know what they have to hide -. From VOX we want to make it clear that both the People's Party and the PSOE have disregarded the importance of food sovereignty as a key element for national independence and sovereignty. Many of our trading partners are in the opposite direction of the European Union's agri-food policy, because they have understood that food is strategic. Both you and the PP will tell us that we are isolators, but we are more coherent. This coherence is missing from the PP, which in one year has been able to vote in Brussels for and against the CAP reform. We are in favour of a free trade that complements us, not replaces us; a free trade where we can export our magnificent agri-food products, but not at the cost of destroying all our productive and social fabric by competing with different game rules. [[Applauds]] We say no to a free trade that strengthens globalist elites, communist dictatorships, autonomous monarchies that crush their people and do not respect human rights. We say yes to a free trade that strengthens the Spanish and Europeans who spread freedom and not legitimize dictatorship and slavery. We are in a European economic area that we want to protect with Community preference and reciprocity. We believe in Europe's borders and we want to remain that European pantry that we always aspire to from our entry into the European Union. Precisely because we believe in true Europe, an intelligent Europe that protects its partner states, that defends a common agricultural policy that is not full of ecology and radical demagogy, is why we defend principles that are in the genesis of the Union and that are now despised by that set of globalist bureaucrats established in Brussels. [[Applauds]] The effort of the Spanish State in these General State Budgets with its own economic funds for agriculture, fisheries and food is minimal, about 90% are European funds. What contributes to the state in these budgets for rural development will add up to 158 million, while Europe, through the EAFRD funds, supports with 1737 million euros. They could have changed the co-financing system, or they could have made more effort in that co-financing system, as existed in the period 2007-2013, until it was changed by the People's Party. You take it. Last year I reminded him of the report from the U.S. Department of Agriculture, which warned how this strategy was going to be lethal. I would remind you today of the European Commission's report, which also states that the farm-to-table strategy will have a negative impact on the agricultural sector. Whatever the scenario, all sectors show declines in production of between 5 % and 15 %...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u221	Mr. Chamorro, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u222	... being the livestock sectors most affected. This has, of course, been opposed by the Secretary General of the Cogeca Cup. In conclusion, I must say that these budgets again, with all that said, will not prevent the Spanish countryside from being weaker. They are again disappointing and ruinous budgets for agriculture, fishing and the Spanish food sector. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause by the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, on the ground]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u223	Thank you, Mr. Chamorro. The Socialist Group has the floor, first of all, Mr González Ramos.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u224	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, deputies and deputies. Minister, congratulations, they're magnificent budgets, they're the most investor agriculture budgets in history. And to the right that they say they are from the field, that they want to be from the field, and the far right even more, I tell you that things are shown. The words are wax, the facts are steel and these budgets are steel. [[Applauds]] You, of the ultra right and of the ultra right, must understand that we are in Parliament and we must demand respect for the citizens, some rigour and not the noise, the overaction, the demagogy of the fat brush to which we are accustomed. Here we agree, here we agree on measures in favour of citizenship as these General Budgets of the State are going to be. You try to defend a patriotism that speaks of Spain, but very little of the Spanish, and less of the Spanish, ladies and gentlemen. The policy is something else, it is defending those we represent and we do so, no matter how much we weigh them, and in this section 21 we help farmers and livestock farmers. The advantage of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, the Government, President Sánchez and his Minister is that we do want to talk about the Spanish, and in this case with the farmers and farmers, with whom we sit, talk, agree and agree. Besides, we do - a server and many others - know where to get into the tractor, I assure you. You are the noise amendment because you have no alternative. The reality of numbers is unappealable and contumid. In 2022, budgets rose by 5.6%, in 2021 more than 10%. The reality is that in two years, with reference to the budgets of the People's Party, there has been a 17% increase. For example, as the Minister said, the sum of the EAFRD and EAFRD is EUR 7426 million, almost 4%. Do you know what this means? That CAP aid is consolidated, even higher than we had in the previous period. The Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan for 2022 is increased by 24% with 500 million euros. I am addressing colleagues in the Socialist Parliamentary Group: look, the spokesman has said that we do not want any more investments in irrigation. It's a tremendous cynicism, I assure you. Because of this €500 million, €300 million goes towards the modernisation of irrigation. [[Applauds]] Do you know what it means, right ultra and right ultra? Those of us who are used to kicking the field, yes, that's the applause. [[Laughter]] Do you know what that means? 500 % more than the People's Party budget, since they budgeted 56 million euros and above they only executed 60 %. Breast strokes are also given with agricultural insurance. They had 211 million euros budgeted. Do you know what we've budgeted, minister? 20% more, EUR 256 million, i.e. more than EUR 40 million guaranteeing income. [[Applauds]] In sixteen seconds that I have left - with the permission of the president, because I have much left to say - I will go to the important thing. I dare here today in this rostrum to tell my parliamentary group and the rest - we already know that the ultra right and the ultra right are not going to agree - that we continue to agree, that we continue to dialogue with the rest of the groups because the citizens deserve it.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u225	Mr Gonzalez, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u226	Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u227	Thank you very much, Mr González. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the same parliamentary group, Mrs Faneca López has the floor. [[Rumors]] I'm asking for a little silence, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u228	Thank you, President. Mr García, I told you in the Commission that it had to be updated, that it had to be reported. You spoke about Mr Rajoy's budgets. Always keep saying the same thing, update yourself and be informed. [[Applauds]] Congratulations, Minister. Congratulations because we are talking about a historic budget, ladies and gentlemen, because it is the largest budget to be managed in the last decade: EUR 130.3 million, 62% higher than the current budget. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, a budget which is going to be the engine of innovation, which is going to be the engine of economic growth and scientific research, and of digital transformation, a principle which marks the whole budget and which reflects the objective of the common fisheries policy in social and economic terms, in order to have a more productive, more sustainable and more competitive sector. This government listens and is always at the side of the sector because we believe in the men and women of the sea, because it is our fishing, extractive and industrial sector, because it is our aquaculture, our seafood, ladies and gentlemen, for the present and for the future. We're proud of all that, ladies and gentlemen. That is why I tell you that we never leave anyone behind, unlike their governments in the territories that depend on whether it is an electoral period or not, whether or not the budgets are presented whether or not the funds belonging to them are lost, in this case, to the fishermen, Your Honor. What a falsity, after listening to him, along with the lords of Citizens who will be out there and Mr. Bal. Isn't that right? Listening to Mr. Marín, see who doesn't feel ashamed, Mr. Marín. Two major programmes have been put into these budgets: the first, EUR 18.2 million for the protection of fisheries resources and technological development, and the second, contains the measures that you say do not appear. That is why I say to you that it is read: strengthening the competitiveness of the aquaculture sector through technological development, innovation and the competitiveness of the fisheries sector within the framework of blue growth; supporting producer organisations, to continue with the government's great commitment to effective gender equality - the Minister did very well in Brussels - and supporting the generational relay with 45.65 million euros, increasing this heading by 13%. If you pick up the generational relief, ladies and gentlemen of the PP. I would like to highlight the production and marketing plans which increase by 125 %, putting the production chain in value. For the management of the Fempa increases by 4%, which gives calm to the sector to address the situation in which the fleet's temporary stops take place, to maintain a biological state consistent with fishing resources. I'm done, ladies and gentlemen, as I began. This is a great historical budget that reflects the Government's firm commitment to the fisheries sector, with comprehensive and balanced applications and that reflects the close collaboration between the administration, the sector and scientific bodies; budgets that will make the fisheries sector, together with the entire agri-food sector, present in the economic revival of our country. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-23-CD211123.u229	Thank you very much, Mrs. Faneca. Good night, everyone. The meeting was suspended until 9 a.m. tomorrow. It was nine and fifteen minutes of the night.
