ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-23-CD210223.u1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The meeting was called to order. We begin with the debate to consider the proposed law of the VOX Parliamentary Group, an organic group of domestic violence. For the presentation of the initiative, Mrs. Toscano de Balbín has the floor. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-23-CD210223.u2	With the venom. With this bill we call for equality for men and women. How strong, what faces, what machos, what a scandal! And the sad thing is that it is a scandal that today in Spain is called for equality before the law. But, in case they hadn't noticed, VOX has come to set up the progressive consensus and dictatorship of unique thought, to denounce the lies of feminism and to defend with nails and teeth the rights of the Spaniards. [[applause]] I am aware that you were first much more comfortable, before we arrived; with an opposition that is not opposition, with a right that is not right, with a cowardly and servile People's Party that has bought all its ideological delusions and are accomplices to the ignominy of gender laws. [[rumors]] [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-23-CD210223.u3	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-23-CD210223.u4	But, ladies and gentlemen, they have run out of time to lie without opposition; it is time for them to face the truth and let us take their face off so that the Spaniards can see them as they really are. What we propose today - or have proposed, to speak in left-wing language - before this House is a proposal for a law on domestic violence that seeks to undo and amend the abuses of the 2004 Law against Gender Violence and the 2004 State Pact against Gender Violence. [[Laughter.-Applause.]] And we want to repeal for several reasons; first of all, because this law and this covenant only protect women. Feminism and gender ideology believe that the woman is the only one who is susceptible to violence, eye!, only by a heterosexual white male... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-23-CD210223.u5	I'm sorry, Mrs. Toscano, to interrupt you. I'm asking for a little silence, please. You can go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-23-CD210223.u6	With this law that only protects women we find ourselves with a problem, and that is that you no longer know what a woman is. With the trans law they are cooking and with queer theory, a man may be susceptible to the protection of this law because he feels like a woman or he may also happen to a man when he is denounced or convicted to say he feels like a woman. Ladies and gentlemen, if biological reality does not matter, if it only matters how you perceive yourself, your law against gender-based violence does not make any sense. With their ideological miseries and their contempt for human nature, for reality and for biology, we are all interchangeable individuals, without identity, so their law on. They have created a monster, ladies and gentlemen, which is devouring them. Another reason to repeal your law is that it hasn't worked. For almost twenty years the same number of victims has remained. If this were a company and you'd be valued for results, all of you would be on the line of unemployment. And the most important reason for repealing its law is that it violates the equality before the law of all Spaniards, which recognizes article 14 of the Constitution. [[Applauds]] His law criminalizes man by being so, his law spreads messages in campaigns and propaganda that man is a violent being by nature. Their law indoctrinates our children to believe that male children are violent. His law provides that the penalty is greater if the assault is committed by a man. Its law provides for courts of exception for men. And now imagine his own law, but that we would change man into black. What would you think of a law where the penalty would be greater if the aggressor were black? How would you like a law with emergency courts for black people? It would seem like an aberration, and that's what you're doing. [[Applauds]] But do you know the worst? May you, ladies and gentlemen, applaud the law against gender-based violence with your ears; you, gentlemen of the People's Party, the PSOE, citizens and all parties, applaud a law that criminalizes you and penalizes you for being men; you applaud a feminism that insults you and considers you as potential aggressors. You're masochists and you should make them look at it. [[Laughs. - Rumors.]] And they are applauding a law that violates the presumption of innocence; with this law if a woman denounces them without evidence, they spend the night in the dungeon and act against you. Its law against gender-based violence also violates fundamental rights such as freedom of expression, education and conscience, as well as liquidated constitutional guarantees and basic civil rights. Even his former partner, Alfonso Guerra, manifested the unconstitutionality of this law and revealed the strong pressures that the Constitutional Court had to adopt. [[Applauds]] Your law, ladies and gentlemen, does not solve anything and only serves for an endless number of chiringuitos to be supplied at the cost of the pain of women who are really mistreated. But we, ladies and gentlemen, have come to give the battle of ideas and to stand on the side of the Spaniards who suffer; the Spaniards who suffer ill-treatment, the Spaniards who suffer discrimination by laws like this; innocent men who suffer false complaints; we are next to them. [[Applauds]] That is why we have registered a law that protects all victims regardless of their sex, age or sexual orientation. We want to protect the family, which is the most important institution in our society, and we want to protect family members who suffer violence within them, because parents, mothers, children, grandchildren, grandparents and homosexual couples also matter. [[Applauds]] And the most important thing is that our law guarantees the equality of all Spaniards, with equal penalties whoever the victim is and whoever the aggressor is. Our law ends with the granting of victim status to women who have not even complained and who accuse a man of receiving benefits. The courts of violence against women will be abolished by our law because they are courts of exception contrary to our Constitution. The indoctrination of minors, which violates article 27.3, ends because minors have to learn in school to respect everyone regardless of their sex. The right to the presumption of innocence, regardless of the sex of the accused, shall be ensured. The funds will be allocated directly to the victims, regardless of the sex of the victims. Subsidies to their feminist associations, which receive benefits on the basis of complaints submitted by them, will be eliminated. The real figures of violence and complaints will be published, which we cannot get right now, because the Spaniards have the right to know the truth. With our law the penalties will be tightened in cases of domestic violence and will be applied the permanent prison reviewable for the murders with special gravity, that permanent prison that you do not want because you want the murderers to be on the street. [[applause]] And we will continue to work towards the criminalization of parental alienation, so that mothers and parents who manipulate their children against the other parent do not go unpunished. And we will relentlessly pursue false allegations that this bloodbath of innocent men, who see their lives destroyed by the denunciation of a wretched woman, will be put to rest. [[Rumors]] Man is not the enemy, ladies; the enemy is violence. Violence doesn't have gender because people don't have gender. Violence has no sex, violence has no age, violence has no sexual orientation, and if they don't like it, they can tell it. Violence is violence wherever it comes from and in a supposedly democratic state of law, people cannot be protected and treated according to their genitals. [[Applauds]] We are aware that it is very difficult for this law to prosper because we are the only ones who believe in equality before the law and the only ones who claim consensus progress. You want to face men and women and we want to unite; you want chiringuitos and we want to help the victims; you want privileges and we want equality; you want totalitarianism and indoctrination and we want freedom. Chesterton said that at every age a small handful of men who have the courage to be inactive saved her. Well, at this time, in this country, with this government, VOX is that handful of men who, facing the lies of feminism, gender ideology and globalism, will fight courageously for eternal values, for life, for the family, for beauty, for goodness and for freedom. [[Applauds]] I would like to conclude my speech with a special reminder to an ex-member of the Spanish Army, a Spanish servant who has committed suicide because of the false allegations of his ex-wife. I want to remind all those kids that they've run out of their parents. I want us to remember all those innocent men who have their lives torn apart by false allegations and nights in the dungeon. And I especially want to remind - my prayer goes for them - the innocent men who halfway have surrendered and left. For all of them and for all of you who are listening to me, this law and this struggle goes for you. [[Prolonged applause by the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, on the ground]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-23-CD210223.u7	Thank you, Mrs. Toscano. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] I have the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Vehí Cantenys.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-23-CD210223.u8	Thank you, President. In memory of the 1081 women murdered since 2003 in the State and in front of those who try to deny the reality, from our group we want to say loud and clear that the macho violence has gender: Maria Adela, María Paz, Dolores, MariCarmen, Patricia, Doris, María José, Silvia, María Soledad, Josefa, Francisca Jesus, María Magdalena, Elizabeth, Raquel, MarthaJosefina, María Isabel, Cristina, Ati,Paula Teresa, María Judite, María Isabel, María María Maria Paz, Heidi Johanna, Leire, Ana Belén, María Estela, Ivanka Petrova, Natalya, Eva, Maria Dolores, Yesica, Vianca Alexandra, Léonor, Maríaamara María Elmelinda, Aicha, María María Isabella, Maguette, Manuela, Vera María Jose, Fatima, Yolanda, Sacramento, Rokhaya, Lidia, Romina Celeste, Rebeca Alexandra, Maríaa, Maríaa, Sara, Maria Solomona, Elmelinda, Maria Solomona, Mariana, Mariana, Mariana, Mariana [[continued applause during the speech by the honourable Member]] Maria Alice. [[Prolonged applause from the ladies and gentlemen, with some of the parliamentary groups standing up]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-23-CD210223.u9	Thank you, Mrs. Vehi. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] I remind you, ladies and gentlemen, - which I also did at the beginning of the parliamentary term - that it is not permitted to record or take photographs within the Chamber. [[Applauds]] Mrs Aizpurua Arzallus has the floor for the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-23-CD210223.u10	In memory of the 1081 women murdered since 2003 in the State and against those who try to deny the reality, from our group we say loud and clear that the macho violence does have gender: Davinia, Monica, Ana María, Francisca María, María Isabel, Gemma, Encarnacion, María del Águila, María Ángeles, Anne Christina, Rachida, Verónica, Beatriz, Felicidad Rosa, Ancuta Ileana, Laura, Anneline Therese, Rosario, María Sonia, Isabel Asunción, María del Carmen, Eva Maria, Sutosa, Antonia, Divina, Fuensanta, María Almudena, Maimouna, Silvina, Carmen, Maria, Caridad, Dina María, Constantina, María Antonia, IsabelAsunción, María del Carmen, Eva, Dominicana, Sofia, Solomona, Ramona, María del Castillo, Yessica Paola, Nancy, Coral, Monica, Carmen, Maria Iris, Concepción, Mariana, Mariana, Mariana, Mariana, Mariana [[continued applause during the speech by the honourable Member]] Andrea, Kenya, Aránzazu, Yenny Sofia, Celia, Maria del Pilar. [[Prolonged applause from the ladies and gentlemen, with some of the parliamentary groups standing up]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-23-CD210223.u11	Thank you, Mrs. Aizpurua. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Agirretxea Urresti has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]] [[Rumors]] Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-23-CD210223.u12	In memory of all the murdered women, from our group we say loud and clear that the macho violence does have gender, vis-à-vis those who try to deny reality: Nicole, Ana María, Rosario, Juventina, Carmen, Mercedes, María Jesús, Ioana Elisabeth, Incarnation, Ana María, Yajaira Michel, Bolivia Elisabeth, María del Rosario, Iria, Josefa, Vanesa, María Remedios, MaríaAlicia, María Magdalena, María Marina, Neriman Halil, Carolina, Eva, María, Inge Gisela Freifrau, Sandra, Yulmer Josefina, Concepción, Almudena, María Sol, María Eugenia, Petra, María María MaríaElegalinea, MariaElegaline, MaríaElegaline, MaríaElegalinea, Rosa MaríaElegamara, Larisa, Eleuteria, Maria del Pilar, Margalida, Emilia, Guacimara, Sonia, María, Maria, MariaEugena, Maria, Maria Elegana, Maria, Maria, Maria El Carmen, Maria Elegamara, Maria, Maria. [[Applause continued during the speech by the honourable Member]] Sandra, Egle, Susana, Hanane and Tamara. [[Prolonged applause from the ladies and gentlemen, with some of the parliamentary groups standing up]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-23-CD210223.u13	Thank you very much, Mr Agirretxea. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Giménez Giménez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-23-CD210223.u14	President, ladies and gentlemen, in my parliamentary group we have clearly joined the applause, which must be from all over this Chamber in the face of the macho violence that many women continue to live in our country. [[Applauds]] But look, ladies and gentlemen, I cannot stop arguing, because I think it deserves an argument for respect for the 1081 victims we are applauding here, and that is why I want to explain to the ladies and gentlemen of VOX what their proposal is. It is a proposal for a law that he wants to address domestic violence, but, unfortunately, the aim of the proposal is to deny gender-based violence, that specific form of violence that we have to combat today more than ever. Because accepting your approach, ladies and gentlemen, would be a social retreat to combat one of the worst scourges we have in our society; these 1081 women murdered at the hands of their partners or ex-partners demonstrate this. For, look, there are 1081 lives torn apart; there are 1081 women killed by the mere fact of being women. I have to tell Mrs Toscano - and you say it a lot; that violence does not have gender - that violence does not have gender, but the victims do, ma'am, the victims have gender. [[Applauds]] In Citizens we are fully in line with addressing all kinds of violence; violence against the elderly, violence against children, as we are currently doing in the presentation for the law on the protection of children from violence. However, not all forms of violence have the same cause or all can be dealt with in the same way, it is that sometimes they seem to have a blindfold and do not want to take it away to really see the background of the macho violence that many women face in our country. That is why gender-based violence has a specific cause that deserves a concrete approach; a social and legal approach; and in no way must it be diluted or invisible, which is the only thing you claim. This type of violence is based on the consideration of men's superiority over women; it is based on social roles that we have historically assumed by men and women, and thanks to the efforts of many men and many women we are changing that social construction. But this is the origin and the specific situation that we face when we deal with this matter; roles that have constrained the autonomy, the free development of many women, that have promoted the control of men over women. Look, the extreme side of that control, of that man's possession over the woman, is reflected in those 1081 murdered women. And this fatal outcome comes from that perverse mind that unfortunately thinks that if you're not mine, you're nobody's. We cannot consent, ladies and gentlemen, we cannot consent! What are we worried about in our parliamentary group? [[Applauds]] That 15% of the murdered women had already reported one or more times; that 75% of these women live with their partner, that during the month of March there were 6200 calls to 016, that in what we have already had three victims of male violence this year. That is why, because we are concerned, macho violence is a scourge that is clearly to be eradicated and we propose just the opposite of what you are asking for. This week, on Wednesday, we will see a law in the Senate aimed at advancing the implementation of the State Pact against Gender Violence, to move forward so that men and women, all together, can overcome this specific scourge, which is macho violence, violence that, let's not forget, has many dimensions: women who, out of fear, do not make free decisions as to their personal autonomy and their labour autonomy, women who face a crossroads - we also think of those women who are most vulnerable to be able to defend themselves when they see themselves at this crossroads - women who do not have access to services, women who live in the rural world. That is why we are here, to take into account that specific reality in all our proposals, even that of much more vulnerable women. And we haven't talked about this, but we have to address it: the violence that is exerted through social networks, which is a new scenario; women who see control, who see threats only through that mechanism, which is to hack the mobile by their aggressor and thus have all their private information. What do we have to do? Open up to address all these realities. Therefore, it would be an absolute mistake to dilute the defense of the framework of macho violence as you want to do, dilute it in the rest of the violence. Clearly, all violence must be addressed, but it does not blur reality; one thing is violence against children; another, violence against the elderly and this is another specific reality that we have to address because we clearly have a firm position: we must not take a single step backwards in addressing gender-based violence. Ladies and gentlemen of VOX, we are not going to allow you a single step backwards in this area. You say you want to repeal the current law. In addition, I have to ask you: Are you aware of the progress made by the specific courts, the specific prosecutors, the specific police units, the social matter that specifically addresses what gender violence is so that you come here to defuse it and to want to take it ahead of a pen? It is a irresponsibility with capitals that you are raising this! It's a great social irresponsibility! [[Applauds]] That is why we want to make it very clear that we have to move forward and ask tomorrow for the support of the rest of the parliamentary groups for the law that we will present in the Senate, which is intended to address this Pact against Gender Violence and implement it because, clearly, in the face of male-based violence there must be no political colours and in these applause and in this cause we must continue all together and forward. Not a step back, ladies! [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-23-CD210223.u15	Thank you, Mrs. Giménez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] The Plural Parliamentary Group has the floor, first of all, Mr Rego Candamil.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-23-CD210223.u16	Thank you, Madam President. [[Start your intervention in Galician]] Ionela, Carmen, María Vanessa, Herminia, Nelva, Mercedes, Amelia, Judita, Josefa, Ivana, Juana María, Viktorya, Majoría, Malina Mladenova, Isabel, Isabel, Alla, Julia Eulalia, Cristina, Carmen and Teresa. [[Applause continued during the speech by the honourable Member]] [[Prolonged applause with some of the standing parliamentary groups]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-23-CD210223.u17	Thank you very much, Mr. Rego. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the same parliamentary group, Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-23-CD210223.u18	In memory of the 1081 women murdered since 2003 in the state and against those who try to deny the reality, from our group we want to say loud and clear that the macho violence does have gender: Silvia, Montserrat, Victoria, Emma, Fatima, Vanessa, Alejandra, Isabel, Irene, Alicia, Antonia, Fatna, Ana, Guadalupe, Farida, Dolores, Mercedes, Monica, Irmgard, Inés and Rafaela. [[Applause continued during the speech by the honourable Member]] Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause with some of the standing parliamentary groups]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-23-CD210223.u19	Thank you, Mr. Baldoví. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Sabanes Nadal has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-23-CD210223.u20	In memory of the 1081 women murdered since 2003 in the state and in front of those who try to deny the reality, from our group we want to say loud and clear that the macho violence does have gender: Milagros, Felisa, Andrea Valeria, Sarah Marie, Emese Krisztina, Zhour, Carmen Cecilia, Mari del Carmen, Amelia, Laila, María Monserrat, Niscauris, María Belén, Damiana, Johana Elizabeth,María Rosa, Rocío, Sabrina, Rosario, Catalina, Fatiha, Saida, Rosa, Piedad, María Dolores, María del Carmen, Anne Wanjiru, Silvia, María Cristina, Lidia Esther, Dolores Elvira, Rosalía, Estefanía, Cristina, Chunli, Nadia, Rosa María. [[continued applause during the speech by the honourable Member]] Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause with some of the standing parliamentary groups]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-23-CD210223.u21	Thank you, Mrs. Sabanes. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Boadella Esteve has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-23-CD210223.u22	[[Start your intervention in Catalan]] Yolanda, Alannah Catherine, Ana María, Weili, Carmen, Leidiyeni, María Jesús, Esther Julia, Julia, Ramona,Carmen, Arianny, Susana Maria, Khadija, Gigliola Carlin, María Montserrat, Marilyn, Nativity, Purification, Viorela Alexandra, Jeanella Marouxi, Mireia, Candida, Arantxa, Marisol Consuelo, Gloria, Rosa María, Johanna Marlene, Rosa María del Saliente, Miren Mendia, Inés, Teresa, Angélica, Rosario, Eliana, Julia. [[Applause continued during the speech by the honourable Member]] [[Prolonged applause with some of the standing parliamentary groups]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-23-CD210223.u23	Thank you, Mr. Boadella. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Finally, also for the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mrs Illamola Dausà has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-23-CD210223.u24	[[Start your intervention in Catalan]] Monica, Elena Florentina, Giovanna, Fructuoso, Deisy María, Charity, María Isabel, Esther, Lucía, Clementina, Mina, María Dolores, Salud, Roxana, Claudia, Yvonne Philippine, Cristina, Mara, Amaranta, Eunice, Tatiana, Sabrina, Silvia, Fatima, Matilde, María, Yulia, Immaculate, Nataliya, Antonia, Carmen, María Rosa, Amparo, Estrella, Anna,Manpreet, Rhimo, Elisa, Rosa Dina, Julia, Charity of the Angels. [[continued applause during the speech by the honourable Member]] [[Prolonged applause with some of the standing parliamentary groups]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-23-CD210223.u25	Thank you, Mrs. Illamola. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Telechea i Lozano has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-23-CD210223.u26	[[Start your intervention in Catalan]] Aicha, Milagros, María Carmen, Velia, Ana Mercedes, Nuria, Jessica María, Edelmira, Victoria, Sorina, Francisca, Margaret Mary, Maríalva, Monica, Ascension, Jennifer, Juana, M.a Pilar Martina, Fuensanta, Sara, Rosa Nativity, Yadira Mirella, Lidia, Elena M.a Ángeles, Shuwen, Francieli Percila, Yuyan, Esvetlana, Basilia, Marioly, M.a Luz, DeborahJane, Tatiana, Yolanda, Tatile, Alexandra, M.a. Dolores, Carmen, Ana, María Luisa, Maria Sagrario, Sophie Ivonne, Fostina Marie, Paulina, Rebeca, Hilaria, María Rosasia, Maria Eugenia, Gisel, Sylvina, Laura, Jesús, Maria Rosa, Marixa, Marixa, Marixa, Marixa, Marixa, Maria, Marixa, Maria, Marixa, Marixa, Marixa, Marixa, Marixa, Marixa, Marixa, Marixa, Marixa, Maricas, Maria, Marixa, Maricas, Maricas, Marixa, Marixa, Marixa, Marica, Marica, Marica, Marica, Marica, Marica, Marica, Marica, Marica, Marica, Marica, Marica, Marica, Marica, Marica, Marica, Marica, Marica, Marica, Marica, Marica, Marica, Marica, Marica, Marica, Marica, Marica, Marica, Marica, Marica, Marica, Marica, Marica, Marica, Marica, Marica, Marica, Marica, Marica, Marica, Marica, Marica, Marica, Marica, Marica, Marica, Marica, Marica, Marica, Marica, Marica, Marica, Marica, Marica, Marica, Marica, Marica, Marica, Marica, Marica, Marica, Marica, Marica, Marica, Marica, Marica, Marica, Marica, Marica, Marica, Marica, Marica, Marica, Marica, Marica, Marica, Mari [[continued applause during the speech by the honourable Member]] [[Prolonged applause with some of the standing parliamentary groups]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-23-CD210223.u27	Thank you, Mrs. Telechea. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-In Comú Podemos-Galicia in Comú, Mrs García Puig has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-23-CD210223.u28	In remembrance of the 1081 women murdered since 2003 in the State and against those who try to deny reality, from our group we say loud and clear that the macho violence does have gender: Irina, Isabel, Aurora, María Isabel, María Isabel, Teresa Asunción, Agustina de los Angeles, Rocío, Gregory, Aisha, María, Mamona, Rosaura, Nelly Sully, Claudia, Argelin, Asunción, María Carmen,Ireland Roxana, María Consol, Esther, Julia, Ana María, María Angeles, Elena, Maria Josefa Celine, Isatou, Guadalupe, María Dolores, Patricia, María Antonia, Cinthia, Maria Elena, María Vana, María Vana Emma, Pilar, Dolores, Marioara, Yolanda, Mariana, Susana, Aicha, Piedad, Khadouj, Begoña, Maria Antony, Catalina, Maria Maria Inova, Maria Ilena, Maria Mariana, Maria Mariana, Dominicana, Mariana, Mariana [[continued applause during the speech by the honourable Member]] Maria Angeles, Aicha. [[Prolonged applause with some of the standing parliamentary groups]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-23-CD210223.u29	Thank you, Mrs. García. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mrs García Rodríguez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-23-CD210223.u30	Thank you, Madam President. The People's Party applauds the victims of gender-based violence, as we also applaud the victims of terrorism, always in our memory. [[Applauds]] The People's Party sees a need to address domestic violence from a global and comprehensive perspective, to prevent domestic violence in its various manifestations and especially those that do not have a regulatory framework or a network, such as children or gender-based violence. The text they present does not cover the various manifestations of domestic violence. I don't know what they hide, because they don't name and surname different types of violence, or filo-parental violence, gender violence, child abuse, partner violence motivated by causes other than primarily gender-based contempt, abuse of the elderly, or ill-treatment of persons with disabilities. If the object of the law is to address the different types of domestic violence, it should recognize them, but the object is another. VOX aims to equate domestic violence with gender-based violence, and we do not agree with coffee for everything, it is not the solution. Not all services, measures, projects serve both problems because they have different origins, causes and solutions. Today in the presentation of the law against child abuse, VOX has voted no to the proposal of the People's Party asking for more funds to fight child violence, and I wonder if they will also vote against this law. We are presented with a text without diagnosis, without detection mechanisms, without notification, without referral, without risk assessment tools, without specialized training for professionals. In the autonomous communities in which the PP governs - and when we have ruled - we have acted and addressed all the different manifestations of violence occurring in the family sphere. But yes, the great novelty of this VOX law is that it uses inclusive language. VOX in this proposal presents a text that is a trap, it is a text of thick stroke that is incomplete. It's an ochenter text because it's got stuffy ideas that rumbles and smells like naphthaline and tar, which they prefer. And I'm going to reason with four conclusions. The first conclusion: VOX does not want the text that is being debated today to be adopted because it has not devoted a minute to the text. They have no interest in passing a law to eradicate domestic violence and not even protect families. VOX wants to put a health cordon on gender violence and break the State Pact against Gender Violence. They know that so their text will not prosper; this is to deceive families. They are also using domestic violence as an alibi to repeal the legal framework and support network for victims of gender-based violence. The second conclusion: with this text VOX legislates against women. He proposed the abolition of courts of violence against women and questioned false complaints. Data from the Attorney General's Office, year 2019: 168,057 complaints; seven cases were brought for false complaints, seven; the proportion is 0.0069 per cent. While VOX uses the myth of false allegations, we can banalize sexual abuse for internal purges of his party. And nobody takes into account one fact, that of forty-one women murdered in 2020 only one in six had reported. This is unacceptable and the people demand that the Government strengthen UFAM, because it is untenable for every police force to have more than fifty victims under its protection. The third conclusion: this text is a rude alibi to fuel his negationist discourse, which only serves to add more pain to the pain, more fear of the fear of victims of gender-based violence. Ladies and gentlemen of VOX, your burning land policy with gender-based violence has many names - they have been read here today - as many as victims. Women who in their day to day are forced to change their routines and their journeys, the times of departure and arrival of the work, of their children's school, activate the automatic closing of the car doors, seek company to go to buy the bread, have to tell their neighbors and family what their situation is, lock themselves in the sink when they are afraid, have a bag prepared with the basics in case they have to run away or have some signs agreed with their children to lock themselves in their room or go out and ask for help. They, they, are the main victims of their negationism. It's very bad. [[Applauds]] Fourth conclusion: VOX with this law breaks the State Pact against Gender Violence. The Council of Europe's latest report indicates that the most positive thing that has happened lately in Spain is the State Pact against Gender Violence which was signed with the People's Party and which signed almost all the groups in this House, less We can. But in the meantime, ministers Montero and Calvo, or what is the same PSOE and Podemos, form a badly-wrestled marriage. And I tell you, ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE and Podemos, that with their fights no one wins, they lose the victims of violence. That is why the people demand that the Government implement the 290 measures of the State Pact already, which the victims cannot wait for, that they want effective and urgent responses as soon as possible. We therefore urge the Government to follow the recommendations of the Council of Europe in its latest Grevio report, so that they can comprehensively address all forms of violence against women and improve the implementation of the Istanbul Convention as well. Gentlemen of the Government, gentlemen of the PSOE and Podemos, move from the muses to the theatre because they arrive on this 8th of March. Since their rule, Spain has fallen ten positions in the ranking of equality. We are the country of the European Union where women's unemployment is highest, 2273 325 women unemployed. We wouldn't have time to read all their names. The wage gap is 21.4 per cent. With the Popular Party in Spain there were more women working, the gender gap was narrowed and for the first time a maternity supplement was put in the pensions and you go and cut it, the pension to working mothers and large families and eliminate the dependent child benefit. I'm closing up. Gentlemen of VOX, gender-based violence exists. Ladies and gentlemen of the Left, the fight against gender-based violence is not a monopoly on anyone or any ideology, it is a commitment of all, of society as a whole, of men and women. The People's Party will work to give women, their children a new opportunity...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-23-CD210223.u31	Mrs. Garcia, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-23-CD210223.u32	... so they can be happy again. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-23-CD210223.u33	Thank you very much, Mrs. García. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, Mrs Guinart Moreno has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-23-CD210223.u34	In memory of the 1081 women who have been murdered since 2003 in Spain and against those who attempt to deny reality, the Socialist Parliamentary Group means loud and clear that the macho violence does have a gender: Yaneth, Rocío, Zorla, Maite, Isabel, Silvia, Cristina, Incarnation, Monica, Rosario, María del Carmen, Gloria, Manuela, Elena, Inmaculada, Antonia, Manuela, I.M.R., Dora, MariaCarmesa, MariaCarmesa, Daniela, Silvia, Yaiza, Liliana Rocío, Maria Matilde, Dolores, María José, Patricia Susana, Candida, María Rosario, María Isabela, Francineide, Maria, Victoria, Emilia del Carmen, Teresa, Carmen, Luz María, ElmaCarmesa, Silvia, MaríaCarmesa, Luisa, Rosa, Maria, Candelaria, Candelaria, María Asunción, Rosende, Maria Sonia, María Rafael, María El Salvador, María El Salvadora, María El Salvador, Carmen, María El Salvador, María, María. [[continued applause during the speech by the honourable Member]] [[Prolonged applause from the ladies and gentlemen, on the ground]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-23-CD210223.u35	Thank you very much, Mrs. Guinart. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] - OF THE SOCIALIST AND CONFEDERAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUPS OF THE UNITED NATIONS, IN COMMON, CANDEM-GALICIA IN COMMON, ORGANIZATION FOR THE REFORM OF ORGANIZATIONAL LAW 5/1985 OF 19 JUNE, OF THE GENERAL ELECTORAL REGIME, FOR THE REGULATION OF THE EXCHANGE OF VOTE BY THE SPAINS LIVING IN THE FOREIGN. [[File number 122/00122]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-23-CD210223.u36	We continue with the item on the agenda regarding the consideration of the proposed law of the Socialist and Confederal Parliamentary Groups of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communo, an organic reform of the Organic Law 5/1985 of 19 June, of the General Electoral Regime, for the regulation of the exercise of the vote by Spaniards living abroad. For the presentation of the initiative intervenes, first of all, by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos Galicia in common, Mrs Muñoz Dalda. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-23-CD210223.u37	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. It is up to me to begin this debate with my heart shrinking after seeing the show of unity of this House; well, of unity of almost all groups against those who deny the Machist violence. But I also confess that this situation is quite ironic to me because we are in a full democracy in which a fundamental right, such as the vote of citizens living abroad, is restricted. And here are the groups that support the Government by putting forward a proposal for a law that proposes precisely to remove that race of obstacles that involves voting for our fellow countrymen who reside abroad. This reform of the Electoral Law includes suppressing the petitioned vote, a demand of our people for a long time and for which United We can have been fighting since he was born. And it is a matter of principle, in democracy rights must not be demanded of them. Ladies and gentlemen, the functioning of democracy in Spain leaves much to be desired, and we say this from the United States We can but most people think so. This is not our opinion; you can look at the data from the last Eurobarometer on the satisfaction of democracy: we are at the back of Europe, only 42% of citizens are satisfied with democracy. Spain is not a social-communist dictatorship either, that's demented, but let's take this into account. And if the perception of citizenship is not enough to reflect, I recommend that you look at the last report on democracy in Spain of the Alternatives Foundation, which points to Spain with 6.1 out of 10. I believe that Spain is, in view of the data, clearly better, as we understand it from União Podemos. Spain needs profound changes. With regard to today's bill, Adriana Lastra said that it would improve the democratic quality of our country because it would increase participation. We fully agree with the spokesman for the Socialist Group. Our intention with this law is to take a step towards a little improvement in the functioning of democracy by providing guarantees of the exercise of the vote, and therefore we propose to you this law that addresses a problem, as I told you, that we have been dragging for a decade. We propose to end the odyssey of voting for our compatriots. You, who are elected representatives, surely know close stories of people who have not been able to vote in the elections. Unfortunately, I know a few because I belong to a generation that, after the 2008 crisis, had to choose between unemployment, precariousness or exile and, therefore, I have many friends and many friends who are out. And I can give you some examples. Marina has voted twice outside Spain: in Denmark the vote came to her and she had to pay 12 euros, which never refunded her; in Bosnia the vote came to her only a day in advance and she could not vote. Vanessa's sister lives in Chile, near Linares, and has to make two trips of about six hours away and six hours back to Santiago in order to vote. If we consider that she has two young girls, that the deadlines are adjusted and that you often find out late because there is not enough information, voting becomes impossible mission. Diego, in Colombia, managed to do all the procedures with a lot of difficulties, but received the ballots one day after the elections. And if we look at the data, we see how the vote of the people living outside our country has fallen into stalemate, from 31% before the 2011 reform to 4% and 6% in the last general elections. Ladies and gentlemen, we must reflect on the origin of this problem. The root of the problem is the 2011 reform of the electoral legislation concerning the voting of Spaniards abroad; a reform that is agreed between the People's Party and the Socialist Party and obtains the support of some groups such as the PNV or CiU. This reform happens at a time when we have been hit by an economic crisis, where there is an increase in emigration, where there is a youth exodus, where there is a very high level of indignation - it is the year of the 15-M - where the bipartisan system is being called into question, in a year when disaffection with the political class is brutal. Ladies and gentlemen, if I am honest with you, I do not think it is very difficult to see a political intention in this reform. But, well, let's get to the text. We present a text with a single article that modifies articles 75, 103 and 107 of the Loreg and these changes allow the deletion of the requested vote. It will no longer be necessary to apply for the vote in advance, but it will be the Electoral Census Office that sends it on its own initiative to all those registered in the census of absent resident voters. They also allow the download of ballots in a telematic way. This in turn allows the deadlines for the submission of this documentation by the administrations, which goes from the thirty-fourth day after the call, to the eighteenth day. And the time limit for the opening of votes cast from abroad is extended from three to five days. In other words, what is extended is the time limit for general scrutiny, since the current three-day time limit from the date of the vote to the opening of the votes cast from abroad has been shown to be insufficient to ensure that those votes are received. I do not want to go much longer, but I want to end up recognizing the work that many people have been doing for many years from the outside and also from here to get rid of this career of obstacles that is voting for people living outside. They have been organized, mobilized and made visible this problem. Thanks especially to the Granate Sea, thanks to the militancy of the political organizations that make up the Confederal Group, thanks to Podemos Exterior, thanks to the United Left Exterior and thanks to all the exiled youth, to all the friends who had to leave, who tried to vote and who, or did not get it, or had it very difficult and gave the battle. Thanks to that battle, today you can win and if you and you win, we win all, because today we win democracy. Finally, thanks also to the parliamentary groups in this House who intend to support the handling of this bill. I apologize if I have told you any truth that may have bothered you, but I believe that today we must not only live up to our people by giving them a voice, but also by giving them a vote. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-23-CD210223.u38	Thank you very much, Mrs. Muñoz. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, Mrs Cancela Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-23-CD210223.u39	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I can't resist. I thought I wouldn't say anything, but I have to say it. To Mrs. Toscano, who said that we don't know very well what it is to be a woman, I want to say to her: Hello, my name is Pilar. I am a woman, feminist, socialist, I come from the working class and I have been an emigrant. I have everything, Your Honor. [[Applauds]] And I'm a congresswoman, just like you. It has perhaps been possible because those of us who believe in the welfare state and equal opportunities happen to these things in this country and we fight for it. And perhaps it has also been possible because you were not in the institutions. That's why it could have been possible. [[Rumors]] Oh, they were. They were here. That is why they resorted to each of the laws in which we advance in the realization of women's rights and freedoms, of civil rights in this country. [[applause]] By the way, none has prospered. Having said that, focusing on the proposed law that we bring here the two parliamentary groups that we support this progressive and socialist government, I would like to clarify that the reform carried out by Organic Law 2/2011, which amended the Organic Law of the General Electoral Regime by redrafting article 75, by introducing the system of vote begged for the Spaniards and Spaniards who were abroad, has not only prevented the exercise of the right to active suffrage of our fellow citizens, but has also installed the feeling among them that they have been punished and considered second-class citizens. The context of the time of the reform was what it was. There was a suspicion of irregularities in the issue and in the count of the external vote. It was a vote that decided and determined governments at the time, because participation was very important, exceeding even 30% of the CERA census abroad. It is clear that, if that were the case, we should have proceeded to correct the anomaly, but always combining two fundamental principles in a democratic State. The first is the exercise of a right, which is the right to vote, the very essence of democracy as set out in the Constitution itself: articles 1, 9, 14, 23 and in a very specific way in article 68, when it says literally that the law will recognize and the State will facilitate the right to vote for Spaniards who are outside our territory. The other principle is legal certainty, i.e. providing guarantees of reliability and guarantees of confidence in the electoral process itself. Combining the exercise of the right and legal certainty must therefore be the fundamental thing in a democratic and rule of law State. That is what is being pursued in establishing the requested vote, but in practice it happened that with this overprotection what we have done has been to suffocate the exercise of our own right, so that in some of the recent electoral processes little more than 3% of that census has participated abroad. Ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about more than two million compatriots who are beyond our borders and who have seen how a genuine odyssey has been to be able to vote, which is the very livelihood of democracy. In addition, we are talking about the Spanish electoral system, which, with all the possibilities for improvement it may have, is internationally recognized; we have recently seen in recent electoral processes the abysmal differences with the counting of electoral processes in other countries. It is reliable and it is a process that also provides security. Let us therefore correct what needs to be corrected, and let us also correct this democratic anomaly. At this point, ladies and gentlemen, I would like, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party, to apologize to the citizens abroad. We want to apologize because since 2011, in which we have promoted and supported this legislative amendment, we have treated them as second-rate citizens. We apologize for this, for threatening their right to participate in the life and public affairs of the country to which they belong, and we also apologize for being late. Because we're late, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]] In this respect, I have to say that surely someone can be tempted to now arrogate the political position to amend this situation and present itself as the adalides of this legislative amendment. Be careful, because some had absolute majorities to be able to change it and were not even expected. So, a little modesty. They'll tell me I put the bandage on before the wound, but we know each other because there's trust. So, I'd rather say it now. [[Applauds]] I would also like to acknowledge so many groups of the Socialist Party abroad, on any of the continents and, if you will allow me, in a very emotional and special way to the family of South America, Latin America, to which we have so many ties of history, culture and language. Go especially for them. [[Applauds]] In addition, this text that we are presenting is the starting point that we have taken back from the negotiation of the last legislature, where we were able to agree on some fundamental guidelines or lines in relation to this legislative text. I think we have a lot of work ahead of us. It is true that we need to delve into some aspect; for example, in the model of that electronic ballot, the requirements it has and how it is issued, and in the procedure to be developed. Let us also think of that older population, which does not have so much access or is easily moved by new technologies. Let us also think of them; no one can be left behind in the exercise of the right. And, of course, we need to go further in extending the time limits, which was what tightened up and made the exercise of the right impossible. The circumstances of each country must also be taken into account, ladies and gentlemen. It is not the same thing to live in a country of the European Union as to live in a country of Latin America, Central America, Asia or Africa. The circumstances are not the same. We must also take them into account so that what has happened so far does not happen again. Therefore, we have to do much better, because we owe it to them and to them. In addition, I think it is appropriate to establish another correlation. I used to talk about law and legal certainty, and I think we should establish a correlation, which is very emotional for this parliamentary group, for the party it represented, between two key concepts. One is the concept of democracy, in itself, and today is a particularly emotional day. Spanish citizens who are abroad must feel as first-class citizens, as anyone who exercises the same right to vote, but in Spanish territory, without restrictions, without feeling under suspicion, in full exercise of their rights. The other concept is that of emigration. It is impossible not to link the right to vote and democracy with emigration. Both concepts are interrelated in this case and are inseparable. Those who are outside Spain, ladies and gentlemen, whether temporarily or permanently, for a short time or for a lifetime, have emigrated in search of new opportunities, vital or professional, or are descendants of generations who previously emigrated. For a party like myself, where democratic memory or historical memory is part of our own political genetics, it is not a minor issue. And there's an emotional pose in all of this. Today is a particularly emotional day. Let me talk about emotions, because in the end politics are also emotions. The policy must respond to the emotions that flow from citizenship, which can claim a decent job or housing, which demands freedom, which demands justice and equity, which demands rights, freedoms, equal opportunities and equality between women and men. All these are emotions, and we who are in political power have to translate them into political action and reverse them in the form of security, decent work, freedom, rights, inclusion and respect for the different. That is the magic and essence of politics. Many of these compatriots, precisely the oldest - some of them are no longer - fled from political or ideological persecution, ladies and gentlemen, from economic precariousness, in a dark and black age for this country - a time that some remember so much and that they feel longing for -, seeking opportunities for them and for their family. Many of them, with their efforts and the economic remittances they sent, contributed definitively to the country's own progress. How many people in Spain saw their living conditions improved by the remittances sent by our emigrants! Some returned and others never did, but all of them were able to transmit to their descendants, to their sons and daughters, to their grandchildren, love for their land. Ladies and gentlemen, in the end, the homeland is more than a flag or flags, which is also more than a border or a territorial demarcation on a map. The homeland is where their people are. Where there is a Spanish or a Spanish is Spain. [[Applauds]] And he spoke of Spain in all its diversity, in all the plurality of its peoples, because, in the end, that is what makes this country great. The Galicians and the Galicians, who of emigration know something, we define these feelings as morrin or miss, and that already says everything, ladies and gentlemen. Therefore, full citizenship is not requested, citizenship is exercised, and voting is the living and full manifestation of democracy. I am convinced that we will agree, that we will, because we owe it to them. And, finally, I cannot resist, on a date like today's, the following reflection, which the Madam President is going to allow me, although I have thirty-three seconds left. And it is that, ladies and gentlemen, if memory becomes fragile because the noise, over-actions and even violent attitudes conceal the important and we fall into the temptation to trivialize or relativize what happened then, on 23 February, we should not forget that nothing is conquered forever, that rights and freedoms are defended and consolidated day by day. And if that temptation existed for a moment, it would only be enough for us to raise our eyes to the roof of this Chamber, ladies and gentlemen; here are the traces of the violence that took place at a certain moment, the traces of the intolerance of those who do not respect the one who thinks differently and take the institutions by force.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-23-CD210223.u40	Mrs. Cancela, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-23-CD210223.u41	Therefore, press the democratic ranks, ladies and gentlemen, because it is time for struggle. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-23-CD210223.u42	Thank you, Mrs. Cancela. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] The joint parliamentary group, Mrs Oramas González-Moro, has the floor in position.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-23-CD210223.u43	Thank you, Madam President. In 2011, the People's Party and the Socialist Party agreed to remove a fundamental right for thousands of Spanish citizens, and the only ones in this House that we opposed were Gaspar Llamazares and I, United Left and Canary Coalition. And we said what the preamble to the bill says today, what was going to happen. They also tried to remove the vote in the autonomic elections and could not. And you know why? Because in the Canary Islands Statute of Autonomy it was a recognized right and they could not remove it. And as a result, of what the Parliament of the Canary Islands decided, they did not dare, as they did with the municipalities, the lobbyists, Congress and the Senate. For eleven years I went to the annual meeting organized by the ministry in Madrid with the representatives of Spanish residents abroad and during those eleven years, until Podemos, United Left and Coalition Canaria appeared We made our own what the people of Uruguay, Argentina, Brazil, Germany, France and all over the world demanded. And I'm glad you're coming today. But, Mrs Cancela, I am glad that you apologize because it was absolutely unfair, because the government's policies with regard to the rights and issues they had were different and because they had to be entitled to their political choice. They were people who helped this country and my land, the Canary Islands, in the worst economic times, working; some for political reasons, others for economic reasons, and others - as the spokesman for Podemos said very well - because of the situation at a certain time of youth, which is different from that in Venezuela, to which it is in Brazil, the United Kingdom or other places. And they refused! We brought propositions of law. And they refused! And I was surprised when they said that there was no guarantee, because when it was elections in Venezuela, Bolivia or Ecuador, in the Canary Islands they were setting up the fairgrounds and here in Madrid; Americans vote all over the world. But in Spain, Western democracy, they could not be assembled in any other way. This seems good to us; we have circulated the bill among all the canary centres around the world to make contributions, in case they consider it necessary to improve it, but we are going to make a quick proposal, which is a demand. For the elections of the representatives of the countries in the commissions of residents abroad, for example, I know the case of Venezuela, the Spanish centers are enabled with ballot boxes, with intervenors and empowered with consular representatives or officials and voted in ballot box. What's going on? You and I know for Argentina, Venezuela and Brazil - where there are canaries - that distances, the mail system and many issues are very difficult in Venezuela and in those countries. If we used the network of Spanish centers so that apart from the embassy or consulate we could vote in an urn, I assure you that a lot of people would do it and we wouldn't have any kind of fraud. That has been proposed repeatedly by the Canary Islands Coalition to the ministry and the only thing we are asking for is that this system could be developed in those countries where the economic situation, the age of voters and many other circumstances, which I am not going to detail here, such as the lack of reliability of political independence of the country's mail, would allow it. Anyway, Madam President, I'm done. Thank you very much. Of course we will support him and, as you have said: welcome be, but he is very late. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-23-CD210223.u44	Thank you very much, Mrs Oramas. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the same parliamentary group, Mr Botran Pahissa has the floor. [[The Lord]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-23-CD210223.u45	Thank you, President. The last elections in which the requested vote was put into effect were the elections to the Parliament of Catalonia on the 14th, with a 4.2% turnout from the census. It is very low, but it was already very low the registration in the requested vote since only 6.5% had been registered, that is to say, it was 93.5%. This is the result of a complex system that discourages participation. Look at the voting guide sent by Federació Internacional d'Entitats Catalanes, the FIEC, for the elections in which all of us and ourselves were chosen in November 2019; it had six pages to understand how to vote. [[shows a document]] It is a clearly disincentive to participation, in addition to the malfunction of the telematics part in the application or the deadlines within which the documentation has not been received. Some of the problems presented to us have nothing to do with the reform of the Loreg, but have to do, for example, with the fact that Correos complies with its share of responsibility and signs the agreements of collaboration with postal services of other countries so that electoral documentation has that rank in that category and prioritization. Repealing the requested vote is therefore a priority, but more changes need to be made, because it is also a problem for the embassies and consulates in the information to the voters; even more so if it is elections that are not state-level and that can be considered second-level. In conclusion, before the requested vote, participation was between 15 and 30 % of persons residing abroad. I want to say that without these obstacles in elections, for example the Catalans, the vote of Catalans residing abroad would have affected the distribution of seats, so this is a violated right. In the past Catalan elections, it was again made clear, by way of example, that one million of our neighbours cannot vote because of the Aliens Act, and many times we have heard that this electoral invisibility is transformed into political invisibility or political clandestineity and that, therefore, it consolidates the fact that there are first-class citizens and second-class citizens because there are some who have no voice in the problems that affect them. Saving distances - because in the case of migrants we are talking about a form of discrimination established by law - in the case of emigrants it reminds us because if in practice they cannot vote, they do not have political effects and have no voice in the problems that affect them. This must end, starting with the repeal of the requested vote that is before us today, and for this reason we will vote in favour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-23-CD210223.u46	Thank you very much. Mr Iñarritu García has the floor for the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-23-CD210223.u47	Good afternoon, Mr. Vice President. We will support this proposal in view of the fact that the reform carried out in 2011 has created all the obstacles that have been mentioned by the different spokespersons during these years. Voting became an electoral yincan for all those who were abroad. He mentioned the UN spokesman We can, Mrs Muñoz, that we all know cases. In my personal case, during this decade, on many occasions, members of my family have not been able to vote in elections even if they want to and are on the territory of the European Union. I don't even want to imagine in some cases, on other continents, what this race of obstacles you were saying has entailed. When we talk about a fundamental right such as voting, it is less understood that during these years this rule has not been corrected. Mr Botran of the CUP mentioned that in the last elections to the Parliament of Catalonia it was less than 5% of the vote, and that is when there is already a majority consensus, even when there is a favourable government that knows that the reformed rule does not work in 2011 and there is theoretically a willingness to facilitate voting for citizens abroad. We welcome this rule, which can be facilitated by making use of technological means, eliminating that request from the vote and extending the time-limits after which the votes are collected. We - I said - will support it. We'll see, because in the end it's going to be time to say whether it works or not. Similarly, I think we should review the CERA. Mrs Cancela mentioned what to do with older people who do not have that knowledge or that approach to - I was going to say new technologies - computer technologies. I believe that there are many people inscribed on the CERA who unfortunately died many years ago, because it is often said that the prophet Moses - there is some picture up there - reached the one hundred and twenty years old. Well, if we see the CERA, according to the last request I made to the government of the CERA data by ages of Spaniards abroad, there were more than seven people born before 1900, that is, they would have surpassed Moses. I encourage you to review the CERA. To finish, I'll make a mention. Mrs Cancela said that we must remember - I also believe that we must remember - what happened forty years ago here. You can remember with humor. He recalled the anecdote of a Swedish journalist who picked up in his midst that a bullfighter had taken the Spanish Parliament with a gun. This is funny, though if we see the thirty-five bullet hits on the roof it makes us less graceful. Besides, I think it's time to declassify. If everything that happened is so clear, what problem is there in declassifying and that all people, parliamentarians and journalists can access all the documentation, all the audios, all the videos that exist about that moment? If you know everything, there wouldn't have to be any problem. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-23-CD210223.u48	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Basque Parliamentary Group EAJ-PNV, Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-23-CD210223.u49	Man is the only animal that stumbles twice on the same stone. This well-known phrase could be the title of the chronicle on this parliamentary initiative, and we say this because its proponents again incur what they were already accused of in the XII Legislature. At that time, they were affected to do so alone, without the political consensus demanded for the establishment of the electoral regime. It should be remembered that in that XII Legislature in the subcommittee studying the reform of the Loreg we had a proposal made by a group of experts, a good working document. However, some groups - today also in this House - considered that some issues, not minor, were still pending agreement and reflection, such as the accreditation of the identity of the voter who opts to exercise his right through mail or the incorporation of interpretative criteria regarding the validity or meaning in certain cases of the vote cast. That is why, in the debate before us, our parliamentary group showed that in the subcommittee we lacked more time for dialogue to reach a greater consensus, and that the premature presentation of the initiative by Podemos and the PSOE might have been the combination of intransigence with impatience. That is why at the beginning of this speech I said that perhaps we will now stumble on the same stone, because those issues which are pending for reflection and agreement in the XII Legislature are still there and yet, even before we try to discuss them, we will meet again with the same initiative and presented by the same parliamentary groups. We should add to all this the incongruity of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, which supposes that it has agreed in this very legislature an initiative in the Senate for the government to present a reform of the Loreg in this respect. However, on the one hand, the Government is urged to introduce a bill and, on the other, the same group that proposes, with the consensus of the rest of the House, then takes the initiative in this House accompanied by Podemos. As I said to you, ladies and gentlemen, this is done in a matter, such as the electoral system, which is one of the most important elements in the institutional framework and democratic system of a country. The electoral system calls for dialogue in order to achieve the broadest possible consensus. It is the action that articulates the plurality of political ideologies in order to order future governability, brings politics closer to citizenship and guarantees the representation of the people, promotes political participation, visualizes the territory and its defense and also articulates and cohesives States with diverse national realities. That is why we have already said in the XII Legislature, and we have to reiterate now, that it is a bad precedent to present a proposal without having hastened the negotiations to solve the fringes detected at the time and to do so in pursuit of an indisputable majority. However, we also have to say that our parliamentary group will vote in favour of the initiative being taken into consideration, as the current regulation of the vote of the absent Spanish residents, CERA, has certainly had a significant deterrent effect on their electoral participation. However, ladies and gentlemen, it is important not to forget the causes behind the amendment of the Loreg in 2011 through the requested vote, which were none other than well-founded suspicions of electoral fraud, above all, denounced by parties of the left. Not only because of the same composition of the CERA, the existence of more centuries-old Galicians in Buenos Aires than in all of Galicia was denounced in some electoral process, but the system was also denounced because of the lack of guarantees of the voter's identity by mail, allowing one or more people to collect the votes of the colony and send them in joint postal consignments. For these reasons and in order to avoid suspicion of fraud and following several complaints and complaints to the relevant electoral boards, the requested vote was introduced. Nor should we forget that for Spanish residents in Spain the vote by mail is always a requested vote; it is no exception to the vote by Spanish residents abroad. Nor can we forget that voting by telematic means is strongly discouraged by the National Cryptological Centre, dependent on the CNI, as its security cannot be guaranteed in the face of cyber attacks. I'm finishing up. Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing in paper the precise changes in the Loreg so that the exercise of the right of suffrage is real and effective, but without forgetting the reasons that led to the change of the Loreg in 2011 in order not to reproduce them in the future, and without forgetting that perhaps in a world with increasing flows of people, in which we too are immersed, we should reflect on whether democracy requires the participation of its recipients in decision-making and whether a reasonable time without residence in the territory would be a reasonable and non-arbitrary criterion for not being able to exercise political rights in the sense of regulations already in force, as in Portugal, the United Kingdom Canada, and in the line suggested by the European Court of Human Rights in the Hilde cases against Liechtenstein of 1996 and Melnitchenko against Lithuania in 2004. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-23-CD210223.u50	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Gutiérrez Vivas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-23-CD210223.u51	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not think anything more unnatural in a democratic and legal state than making it difficult for citizens to exercise their right to electoral participation, and it is that the operation of the requested voting system has been subject to constant criticism since its very establishment, which is why it has been denounced on several occasions by Community institutions, as is the case with the European Parliament. The cold analysis of the data is silly, ladies and gentlemen. According to data from the INE and the Ministry of the Interior, since the system was established in 2011 the census of voters CERA has not stopped growing because many Spaniards have moved to reside abroad, but the number of these Spaniards who perform their right to vote has collapsed, ladies and gentlemen. In the elections to the European Parliament in 2014 only 1,98 % of the CERA census voted; in the municipal and autonomous elections in 2015 the 2,97; in the General Court elections in 2019 the 5,63 and in the municipal and autonomous elections in 2019 only 5,74 % of the census. For this Member and for his group an election in which the participation of part of the electoral census does not reach 6% is frankly better, they will agree with me. Since our entry into institutions, Citizens have always advocated the removal of bureaucratic barriers imposed on Spanish citizens living abroad when they vote. We have proposed the elimination of the requested vote through a number of initiatives, ladies and gentlemen, both in the Foreign Affairs Committee of Congress and the Senate and in the various Autonomous Chambers. Moreover, last October a non-legislative proposal was again voted on in the Congressional Committee of Deputies, to which we voted in favour. In that debate, we recall that in 2016 the European Parliament already expressed its concern about the effects of this measure and that the Central Electoral Board had also recommended to the Government a reform because of the negative impact that the requested vote was having on the Spanish voting abroad. This is what we collected in 2016 in the agreement we signed with the Socialist Party for the failed investiture of Pedro Sánchez. We also introduced him into the pact signed with the PP in the investiture of Mariano Rajoy. Therefore, this reform, ladies and gentlemen, is already two legislatures late in what we managed to pull out both the Socialist Party and the People's Party at the time, which did not want to hear about it at the time. Therefore, yes, we believe that a reform of our Electoral Law is essential, but, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party and the United We can, this is a very unambitious reform. Every time we talk about changing our electoral framework, you just want to talk about the requested vote. We agreed to change the vote of the absent residents, but nothing else? Because to us we would like to add some more points, which are also complaints from voters and those you never want to hear anything and, of course, much less talk about this. Because, what about the introduction of open lists that allow the citizen a freer choice of their representatives? Doesn't this seem important to you? What about Senate reform as a genuine territorial chamber and that Congress is truly a space for the exchange of ideas and projects for the entire national territory, as established by our legal system? And, above all, what is to be done to set a minimum electoral limit of 3% national in order to be able to have representation in this House? Because that's in Loreg, too. Not this, is it? We are talking about this another day, at another time; today it is not clear, today only what you are interested in. Because the vote of residents abroad is very good, but what about the vote of all residents, ladies and gentlemen, those from abroad and those from within? Wouldn't it be good if they were worth the same thing? Don't you think they'll count exactly the same? Because this is another real democratic anomaly, that the votes of some citizens are worth more than those of others and that those votes have served and today still serve to bear governments in exchange for nationalist or regionalist blackmails to the rest of the citizens. [[applause]] So, of course, we will vote in favour of this initiative, but I have already told you that we will be tabling amendments in your parliamentary procedure to change some of these things that so disgust your nationalist partners. And to see what you, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group are voting for, because these things are also those that have not allowed Mr Illa to be president of the Generalitat, as in her day they prevented Mrs Arrimadas from being the first woman president of the Generalitat. There are these little things of participation and percentages, and there is Mr Illa who is not going to be president of the Generalitat for these little things; I say that we will have to change it at once. By the way, not only have they not made him president, but both have prevented them from running for office, despite having won both the Catalan elections. Because Mrs Arrimadas and Mr Illa won the Catalan elections and have not even had the opportunity to run for office. This is indeed a democratic anomaly, ladies and gentlemen. I believe that changing it at the moment would not only cease to be a democratic anomaly, but would also be a poetic justice. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-23-CD210223.u52	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Rego Candaimil has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-23-CD210223.u53	Thank you, Mr. President. Galicia is a people of emigrants, unfortunately, not by our will, but the truth is that we have about half a million people in the CERA, who, together with the internal census, represent more than 15%. Therefore, the BNG is very interested in all our migrants being able to vote, to have full political participation and to do so with all the guarantees. That is why we were not served by the previous system, which did not offer these guarantees and provoked episodes that Mrs Cancela knows perfectly well, and we are also not served by this model, which prevents in practice the participation of our emigrants. It is true that for those registered in the CERA the elimination of the need to ask for the vote can be of some help, but, as you yourselves acknowledge in the explanatory statement, half of the voters who asked for the vote in past elections finally did not exercise their right because they did not receive the documentation in time or by incidents in the subsequent sending of their votes by postal mail. The CERA already has different options, including telematics, to ask for the vote. However, the difficulties arise later, with the sending by mail, which is usually delayed and not arriving in time or in the face vote, because the embassies do not maintain adequate opening hours. Thus, as the BNG has requested in recent processes, it is necessary to extend deadlines, to give the possibility of access to ballot papers and envelopes in consulates, to enable more voting places close to voters' residences, to allow face-to-face processing and to extend voting times in the ballot box, improvements that, among others, we will present as amendments to the text. We shall, in any case, vote in favour of the consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-23-CD210223.u54	[[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you. Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-23-CD210223.u55	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, we have just seen one of the most exciting moments that I remember in this House: the whole Chamber standing together, applauding and paying tribute to the victims of the macho violence, in front of that right which would have just applauded on a day like today the entry of Tejero into this House and which today has been left alone and sitting alone, alone and sitting. Let's learn. Congratulations, ladies and gentlemen. Speaking of today's theme, three years ago I received a message from Pau, a former student of mine, from Bristol, who said to me, "I have already voted. I've made nearly 300 kilometers, but I've already voted for you. In April he voted 8% of the people who were out, in November 2019 10%, in addition to all those who asked and did not arrive. Of the 2 million people who are away, only 8 or 10% voted. People who had to look for life in difficult conditions and we kept leaving them voiceless, justly to young people, to the future of this country. The motion of censure was in 2018, two years and eight months ago, and two elections have passed for this to happen. The corporal. Honestly, they and they expected more from us, especially more hasty when it came to reforming it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-23-CD210223.u56	[[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum).]] Thank you. For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Rosique and Mrs Saltor have the floor. I'm sorry, it's Mrs. Illamola Dausà's turn, for the Plural Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-23-CD210223.u57	Thank you, Mr. President. Thanks to those who remembered him. The elimination of the requested vote is an issue that we have claimed since the beginning of this parliamentary term since Junts per Catalunya, which we claimed at the Minister's first appearance in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, and which we also claimed when we tabled a GNP to promote the repeal of the requested vote, among other things, and was approved four months ago; no more than four months, four months and a week; and four months was the deadline for the start of parliamentary proceedings. The last example of the difficulties in voting by residents abroad - it has already been mentioned - was in the last elections of 14 February in Catalonia. At the end, 95.8% of Catalans did not get to vote; it is true that some did not want and abstain, but it is also true that others did not try because of the excessive difficulties and unnecessary obstacles that arise, and of those who tried, some did not get to vote for the deadlines; and of those who did, some of the votes were cancelled by a specific Provincial Electoral Board criterion, which was contrary to the criteria that they had held in other electoral periods. This reflects the existence of a system that is not guaranteed in relation to the exercise of the fundamental right to vote. Eliminating the requested vote and changing the deadlines will - it is true - help facilitate the voting of residents abroad, but let's not be fooled, it will not be the panacea, it will not be the solution that exponentially increases participation. This will not be the case because it will continue to depend on the Post Office, it will continue to depend on delays in the collection of documentation and in the collection of votes, schedules and possible divergences in different consulates and embassies. All this aggravated, as we have now seen in the pandemic, with restrictions on mobility, and this is likely to happen again in the future, even if we do not want to. Given this long-claimed situation of violation of the right to vote, we have the opportunity to offer an effective system that encourages the culture of participation and improves management, that is, an electronic voting system. Ladies and gentlemen, we are in the 21st century, there is technology to make it possible, the European Commission has said that digitisation is one of the necessary links for the Next Generation, and the State General Budgets also provide items for digitising external services. We have examples in our environment that can guide us, for example, in Estonia, since 2007 there has been a personal, postal or electronic vote, and it is the most developed system. There are also examples in France and the United States. If you want, you can, logically with all the guarantees to avoid cyberattacks, etc. Similarly, in the Courts we are voting telematically and, as far as I know, there has been no attack or cybersecurity problem. I do not understand why we cannot vote in committee, but we do so in plenary. Ladies and gentlemen, as representatives of the citizens we are, we must give solutions to their problems, answers to their demands; facilitating, encouraging, guaranteeing the right of active suffrage to residents abroad is essential, because it is the exercise of a fundamental right that has been impeded for a long time. In this regard, the elimination of the requested vote and the extension of the time limits is indispensable, yes, but so is the establishment of effective measures adapted to the world in which we live. Therefore, from Junts per Catalunya we urge you to take a step further and that the introduction of electronic facilities is not just about downloading some ballot papers and an additional provision, which dares to introduce electronic voting in a complementary way to the current system. We will vote in favour, but in the parliamentary procedure we will introduce amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-23-CD210223.u58	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Now yes, Mrs Rosique i Saltor has the floor for the Republican Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-23-CD210223.u59	I will start with some data from the last Catalan elections on 14 February. In Catalonia, only 6.56% were asked to vote, of which only 6.21% were accepted. Participation, as has already been said, was 4.2%, the lowest figure of all Parliament elections held to date. There were several incidents. Consular schedules were not unified, in some countries he was forced to pay to vote, as happened in the cities of Paris or Nice. The JEC approved the use of courier services in countries where postal services were not operated by COVID-19 on the day the deadline for ERTA ends, when the Government of the Generalitat had been proposing it for days. In the United States the documentation arrived on 9 February. In Washington DC, some people received the documentation on February 17. They arrived in Switzerland on 9 and 12 February. In Poland it did not arrive within the time limits to be able to vote, and so we could find different examples that were repeated in these elections and that are repeated election after election. Democracy for the community abroad is almost non-existent today; that I must beg to vote is undemocratic, that the ballots do not arrive in time is undemocratic, that the data of the consulates are not made public with full transparency is undemocratic, that you cannot ensure that your vote is counted is undemocratic, and that you have to pay to vote is undemocratic. Nobody would say that we are in the middle of the 21st century, in the midst of a digital revolution, seeing how the outdated system of voting abroad works. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, today we are voting in favour of your proposal because it is urgent to discuss it and to end, once and for all, with the requested vote, but you know perfectly well that Republican Left a few months ago we tabled a bill on it after a debate with different entities, and you know it because they played dirty. [[Applauds]] They played dirty. What you did was use the Bureau to validate your bill, from the government parties, before ours arrived. But, well, I'm not going to get into it too much either, because what I care about is that it's approved, and if our proposal has served to scare them, actually, I'm glad. [[Applauds]] I only hope that it will not be closed in the debate between the two parliamentary groups, and therefore we can discuss how all the issues will be dealt with, and that they may be a little more daring, such as, for example, that they begin to raise the option of downloading a self-fulfilling ballot, the option of exercising the delegated vote, the obligation of the consulates to publish the data, the study of the electronic vote, etc. I just hope you take this opportunity to be bold, because you know perfectly well what it costs to modify the Loreg. I hope, by the way, that after the external vote, migrants will also be able to exercise their right to vote, as well as young people aged sixteen and seventeen years old will be able to exercise their right to vote. If they want us to forget that the PSOE at the time vetoed our proposal to debate the vote at sixteen, they are wrong. I warn you that not only do we not forget, but nothing and no one will prevent our struggle for the vote at sixteen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-23-CD210223.u60	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Zambrano García-Raez has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applause. - (FR) Madam President, the President-in-Office of the Council takes the Chair.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-23-CD210223.u61	With all due respect, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, be my first words of appreciation for the risky work that the Security Forces and Corps are doing to protect freedom and order in our country. [[Applauds]] They face street terrorism that some members of the Government or their partners seek to justify. Agents, thank you for your loyalty to Spain and good service. Ladies and gentlemen, the electoral census of Spanish residents abroad is no less than a figure of 2182,000. Many of them have had to leave Spain looking for the opportunities that have denied them the incompetence and lack of honesty of successive governments. It is therefore doubly unfair the ill-treatment that Spaniards abroad have been receiving from the political class, especially since they have deprived them of the right to vote in practice and for years. In 2011, the Socialist and People's groups, supported by PNV and CiU, passed a legislative reform that has proved to be a profound failure. That year 2011, when the vote for Spaniards abroad was established, with an impossible system of deadlines and formalities, it was actually impossible to exercise the vote for a multitude of Spaniards. The percentages of participation, as has already been said here, went from just over 30% to less than 5% of the CERA vote, and the aggravation compared to the residents in Spain is evident. A mandate has been mentioned here that has been in breach for ten years and that I want to repeat. Article 68 of the Constitution: The law shall recognize and the State shall facilitate the exercise of the right to vote by Spaniards who are outside the territory of Spain. It is our duty to ensure that this mandate is fulfilled, but it is a reality that many Spaniards, even if they comply with the established rules with effort, fail to exercise that right, fail to count their vote in the elections. Exactly two years ago, in February 2019, a similar initiative was discussed here. Not exactly the same, but very similar. That debate and vote had a virtually symbolic effect, because we already knew of the impending dissolution of the Chambers, but they were manifested in that debate by some Members two things. On the one hand, the failure of the Legislature to solve this problem created in 2011, but also from this very rostrum, manifested the need to ask for forgiveness from those Spaniards deprived of their rights. We agree with that. The Spaniards abroad deserve a word of apology, a recognition of the incapacity of the groups that created that spurt and that for ten years have not been able to undo. Today we have heard the Socialist Group ask for forgiveness in this rostrum, but the People's Party still owes those apologies to our compatriots. [[Applauds]] This legislative power, which we represent and which we are part of, also owes the Spaniards a rapid and effective reform that will enable them to regain that basic and elementary right in a democracy. That is why I am announcing to you the vote in favour of my group, but that does not mean that I want to make a number of comments. Let us remember that the origin of the disastrous reform of 2011 lies in the incompetence and lack of honesty of the political class. There were many complaints that highlighted the need for alternatives to avoid fraud in the Spanish vote abroad. Faced with the disastrous effects of that reform, attempts to reverse that situation have been clashing with partisan interests: the opposition of the People's Party and the BNG in 2013, the mutual accusations in this House and, ultimately, that undesirable dialectic game to which socialists and populars have already accustomed us. It would be an unforgivable betrayal of our democratic system that they would once again be carried away by their respective interests or calculations of electoral benefit or injury with the vote CERA. You are obliged to act in good faith, fulfilling that above-mentioned mandate of article 68 of the Constitution, which I repeat to you again: The law will recognize and the State will facilitate the exercise of the right to vote by Spaniards who are outside the territory of Spain. I hope that it will not be very difficult for them to act in good faith and with loyalty to the Constitution. [[Applauds]] On the other hand, true democracy guarantees the right to vote and, at the same time, protects the system itself from fraud attempts. This reform must therefore be more ambitious. Indeed, it is necessary to protect the system, but from frauds that come from the political parties themselves. This is a great opportunity to set standards to curb these undesirable practices, and VOX intends to actively participate in establishing mechanisms to prevent these practices. For example, the purchase of votes carried out by that secretary general of the PSOE of Melilla, in a meticulously organized manner. The left has a strange way of seeking the legitimacy of its governments. We need rules that prevent this type of fraud; that prevent, for example, those two coordinators of the People's Party in Jaén, when they manipulated the votes of the elderly. We need rules that prevent the manipulation, pressure and veiled coercion of independentist formations in certain areas of Spain, as we have personally seen by participating as empowered in the recent Catalan elections. In short, in particular your ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group and the Socialist Parliamentary Group...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-23-CD210223.u62	Mr. Zambrano, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-23-CD210223.u63	Five seconds. ... we urge them to work for once in the interest of the constitutional principles that enshrine our democracy, and to leave for once their partisan interests and look for the good of all Spaniards. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-23-CD210223.u64	Thank you very much, Mr. Zambrano. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Bermúdez de Castro Fernández has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-23-CD210223.u65	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. This afternoon's debate necessarily needs to be addressed from the point of view of rigour and seriousness, because we are not debating any law. We are talking about the Electoral Law, which is the law that contains the rules of the game of our democratic system. We are debating an initiative that affects the core, the essential and sacred element of every democracy, which is the exercise of the right to vote. And it is true, as Mr Legarda recalled, that in the XII Legislature there was a subcommission to address the question of the requested vote, and we had exchanged proposals to try to reach an agreement. But if we could not make any further progress then it was not because of those of us who worked in that subcommission, but because then Mr Sánchez decided to dissolve the Courts in advance, ending all legislative initiatives in process. I am glad, Mrs Cancela, that you have acknowledged this afternoon that the procedure introduced in 2011, which are so critical and repugnant today, was driven precisely by the Socialist Group and voted by the majority of the House and that, according to the words of your then spokesman, it was pursuing greater transparency and avoiding the possibility of fraud, an objective which the People's Group also shared in its day. We can all remember that in those years the nationalist and leftist groups launched very hard accusations of fraud and manipulation in the vote of emigration, and that is something that our compatriots did not deserve abroad. That is why the previous request for the vote was introduced, the so-called requested vote, as a guarantee of the personality of the vote, a measure that added to an instruction of the Central Electoral Board that, years before, already required that the vote by mail should incorporate photocopy of the voter's identification. However, this procedure has had an unintended effect by the legislator, which has been the unacceptable drop in participation - from an average of 30% to less than 10% - which makes its reform indispensable. That is why we are in favour of abolishing the requested vote, but, yes, without reducing the guarantees in the procedure. This position of my group is not new, gentlemen of VOX. I'm going to give you two examples. Interview with Ana Belén Vázquez, my partner, who is responsible for immigration in my party, on October 9, 2018: 'We want to suppress the requested vote... and facilitate people's participation in the electoral processes'. Two months later, December 2018, in La Voz de Galicia: 'The Galician Parliament calls for the repeal of the system of the requested vote to facilitate further the migrant vote'. Who rules in Galicia with an absolute majority? The People's Party. It is a Parliament where you have no representation. [[Applauds]] I am saying this in case they are tempted to hold this group accountable for the fact that this reform has not been carried out before. As far as the measures proposed to us are concerned, there are many with which we necessarily have to agree. And you know why? Because they're ours, because we proposed them in that subcommittee. Yes, Mr. Simancas; I can see that with his head he claims. How are we not going to agree, for example, to delay the general scrutiny two days or to double the period for putting the vote in the ballot box in embassies, if they were proposals that we carried out in the subcommittee and that you have introduced into this initiative as if they were your own? They should have a little more prudence, because the hemeroteca is there and then it leaves them in evidence. However, there are other measures which we have also proposed and which do not appear in your proposal. We want the vote to be generalised in the ballot box and, to that end, we want the voting centres to be significantly increased; that not only are the embassies voted on, but that the consulates, the vice-consuls, the Cervantes institutes, the regional houses, etc. can also be voted on. If there is will, it can be done. But there is not a single coma in his initiative from that commitment. We'll ask it to be done. What we cannot agree to is to eliminate the voter identification guarantees in the case of voting by mail. The vote by mail in Spain for any citizen, as Mr Legarda has recalled, is always requested and identified. Moreover, the Electoral Law establishes a double procedure of identification of the voter: when we are going to vote by mail, we have to go to Post Office and request the vote, and at the same time we have to identify ourselves before the Post Office official; but then, when we receive at home by certified mail the documentation to vote, we have to reidentify ourselves. Well, in order to facilitate the participation of our compatriots abroad, we are prepared to remove the prerequisite for requesting the vote, the request for the vote, but we think that there should be at least two but a procedure for identifying the identity of the voter, for reasons of legal certainty. That is neither an obstacle nor an indignity, that is a guarantee, because, as the Central Electoral Board itself recalls, the identification of the voter is the substantive requirement prior to the exercise of the right to vote, precisely to avoid suspicion of fraud or delegation of vote. Nor can we agree to send the documentation for the vote without physical ballots, only with an information sheet so that the elector will then download them telematically. Have you thought about the people living in the countryside? Have you thought about those compatriots who live in countries where they have difficulty accessing the Internet? Have you thought about older people who do not handle new technologies or who do not have, for example, a printer in their home? Have you thought about it? I do not think so; because, look, if the justification for eliminating the requested vote is that it is an obstacle to participation, what we cannot add is a new procedure which, for many voters, is not an obstacle, it is an obstacle to being able to vote. [[Applauds]] In short, suppressing the requested vote, yes, but generalizing the ballot, which is always a transparent vote, and guaranteeing, at least, a process of identification of the voter in the case of the vote by mail; advance the sending of electoral documentation, yes, but also including physical ballots, in addition to the possibility of telematic discharge of them; facilitate the participation of our compatriots abroad, yes, but without loss of guarantees, for what we consider essential that there be a previous report of the Central Electoral Board. That is our firm commitment to the Spaniards who live far away, but who feel their country very close and want to continue to participate in the destiny of this great nation, which is Spain; a commitment - and with this I conclude - which, for our part, is also expressed in our firm will to work to improve this initiative, which we will support in this process, despite our doubts and reservations, as a step towards trying to achieve the consensus that must preside over any reform of our electoral system. We are willing to do so; time will tell if you are. Nothing more. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-23-CD210223.u66	Thank you very much, Mr Bermudez de Castro. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-23-CD210223.u67	Ladies and gentlemen, at 6:23 p.m. on 23 February 1981 the attempted coup d'état was taking place in this House. As we did this morning in an act with his majesty the king, I want to remember and value how democracy and constitutional values have overcome. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause by the ladies and gentlemen, on the ground]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-23-CD210223.u68	We move on to the agenda item on non-legislative proposals. We begin with the non-law proposal of the Republican Parliamentary Group on the elimination of inviolability and other figures of special judicial protection to members of the royal family. For the presentation of the initiative, Mrs Telechea i Lozano has the floor. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, if you want to leave the Chamber, please do so quickly; and if not, take your seats, please. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-23-CD210223.u69	Thank you, President. [[The Lord]] Good afternoon, Members of Parliament. Where I said, I say Diego; and that seems to be the opinion of President Sánchez and his Government regarding the inviolability of the royal family, because, depending on the time and context, they declare themselves republicans or monarchs; depending on the interest, they return where they feel more comfortable, in the defense to the extreme of the corrupt monarchy. Like some groups that call themselves independentists or Republicans, but then come to the king's reception and in that sanitation, ladies and gentlemen, there will never be Republican Left. Ladies and gentlemen, the road is moving, as is the Republic, which must be clean and free from corruption. The multiple scandals that weigh on the monarchy are in the public domain, so much so that the Swiss Public Prosecutor's Office has opened an investigation into the amounts of money that the escaped Bourbon has received irregularly, even through the mediation of warheads. But such scandals not only stalk the emeritus king but also the present king, Philip VI, as he is a beneficiary of Swiss bank accounts in which funds from the business and transactions investigated had been deposited. If you remember, the Royal House issued a statement by which the current head of state renounced the inheritance of the Bourbon, and there they have it. There are so many news that the media have released on the subject, such as El País, The Telegraph and so many more, that Spanish justice has had no choice but to open investigations. It has been known that the National Court has requested information from the Belgian Public Prosecutor's Office and the Public Prosecutor's Office of the Supreme Court has also opened an investigation in view of the institutional significance, as the Supreme Court itself has said. I understand that it defends the monarchy on the right, but on the part of the Socialist Party, ladies and gentlemen, you will have to explain very well why you are against suppressing this prerogative that protects a corrupt monarchy, with the Bourbon escaped from justice. They will also have to explain very well the contradictions to which they are going to have to face in this debate because the hemerotheque of President Sánchez, which has been collected by the cursed Hemerotheque, is very long in relation to this issue. In 2014, Pedro Sánchez, before being chosen the secretary general of the PSOE, bet to suppress the king's inviolability - and I quote textually - so that he adapts to the society of the twenty-first century. A month before his election, he also spoke of the king's inviolability and said that it was a privilege that would have to be eliminated from the monarchy inexcusably. In the same year 2014 President Pedro Sánchez, in an interview in Al rouge viva, explained that he would like to organize a monarchy-republic consultation, but sorry! considered that there were other emergencies. In 2016, Pedro Sánchez declared himself a Republican in an interview in Onda Zero and even said - and I quote again textually - that he was a Republican not only because he was Secretary General of the Socialist Party but also because of family tradition. In the same interview, however, he added that the majority of Republicans felt well represented in the parliamentary monarchy. What a republicanism! That same year 2016, already as a candidate for the Presidency of the Government, in an interview in The Sixth Night insisted that he had in his being - in his being! - the republic, but in the Transition he bet on a parliamentary monarchy because he had other challenges ahead. In addition, he said that the Royal House had to be transparent and exemplary. Then, on account of what, on account of what then veto the numerous commissions of inquiry that have been requested in this House by the groups on the left to investigate precisely the opaque business of the Bourbons and their corruptes? Already in 2018 in Moncloa it was said that it was very important that the king remain inviolable. Even so, in December 2018, President Sánchez continued to personally defend eliminating the inviolability of the King of the Constitution. Well, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, what do you intend to do? So far we have not seen anything that bets to effectively eliminate the prerogatives of the Royal House, because much to fill the mouth of republicanism but at the time of the tiny representation of republicanism that of the Spanish Socialist Workers Party. Because true socialists continue to have principles... Sorry, those we continue to have principles are no longer in the Socialist Party of Catalonia or in the Spanish Socialist Workers Party, we are in the Republican Left. But the debate goes much further, because it is not about republicanism or monarchy, but about being democratic or not. We are faithful to that phrase of fets and not words, facts and not words. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-23-CD210223.u70	Thank you. Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor on behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-23-CD210223.u71	Thank you very much, Mr President. Forum was, together with the Navarro People's Union and the People's Party, co-author of the amendment that made possible in mid-2014 the extension of the hanging to King Emeritus and other members of the royal family. Now, given the new inquisitorial anxieties, both the arguments made by my predecessor in Congress, Álvarez Sostres, and mine in the Senate, both in the Journal of Sessions, gain value. Ladies and gentlemen, this initiative disqualifies the exemplary period of the Transition, a model of global understanding and agreement, in which was key Josep Tarradellas, a Republican Catalanist who spent a very long and hard exile and who in 1986 received recognition from then King Juan Carlos I for his prudence, spirit of collaboration and patriotism. In the present Republican Left of Catalonia they should review the trajectory of the great Josep Tarradellas and apply it. In the meantime, I will vote against it. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-23-CD210223.u72	Thank you very much. For the same parliamentary group, Mr García Adanero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-23-CD210223.u73	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Do you realize how in Spain there is a full democracy and how there is freedom of expression? You come out here, you say what you want and obviously nothing happens. Of course, if when he came down he'd beat up the spokesman of the People's Party, then we'd be talking about something else. Therefore, full democracy and freedom of expression. You don't care about the Emeritus King, who, by the way, if it doesn't come to be for King Juan Carlos neither you nor I would be here debating. [[Applauds]] We are debating because at one point, forty years ago today, he said what had to be said at that time, and you do not forgive him, nor do you forgive the current king that in 2017, on October 3, he made a speech, like two heads of state who do their role and their work entrusted to the Constitution with the democratic vote of the Spanish people as a whole. That's a democracy. It is not democracy only when you want it to be democracy, no. Democracy is to comply with the laws and try, if they want, to change them with the votes, accepting the results. You don't care whether it's a monarchy or a republic. Since when does a monarchy have a right? A monarchy in our case is the head of the state, which is how we have decided how we will govern ourselves, a parliamentary monarchy. But it would give you just as much as it was a republic, your political goal is independence. They will therefore do everything possible to weaken the Head of State, now against the Emeritus king, then against King Philip and, if there is a republic, against the president of the republic. You are independenceists and seek to end the State's own institutions. Well, let them know they're not gonna make it. Spain is a great nation and will remain a great nation thanks to the vote of the Spanish people as a whole. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-23-CD210223.u74	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Botran Pahissa has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-23-CD210223.u75	Thank you, President. It coincides with the date of the second enthronement of King Juan Carlos. The present Bourbon restoration began when Franco appointed him heir in this same space and Juan Carlos received, in his own words, the political legitimacy that arose on July 18. He was later enthroned in 1975, but this Francoist origin made him an unpopular king. Suárez told it later in an interview; he did not want to tell it, because the microphone was plugged, but then it was unveiled. At that time they had surveys that said that, if a monarchy or republic referendum was held, they would lose it and, for that reason, they put the king in the Law for Political Reform. However, the 23-F, with its television appearance, made it something different for the official account of the Transition, placing it as a savior of democracy. There are many investigations that have pointed to the contradictions of this official version, since the Royal House was aware of and supported some kind of coup d'état such as the one that took place. The point is that reaching these conclusions involves overcoming enormous obstacles: first, we would have to declassify documents, as we requested this morning Catalan, Galician and Basque forces, and, second, we could not prosecute them because of their inviolability, which is what brings us here today. On the Royal House there is this legal protection of inviolability, also of insults, by which the Court of Strasbourg has already pulled their ears twice. There is also media protection, but last but not least, there is political protection ranging from VOX to PSOE. That is why the CIS does not ask for the monarchy, like Suarez in the 1970s, and that is why it also explains that, even when lawyers have given green light to commissions of inquiry for being adjusted to the law...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-23-CD210223.u76	Your Honor, you must finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-23-CD210223.u77	... has been a boycott and a political censorship from VOX to PSOE which has prevented it. That someone is above the law is an inheritance of monarchical despotism that the Bourbons implanted in blood and fire three hundred years ago and nothing has full democracy. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-23-CD210223.u78	Thank you. Mr Iñarritu García has the floor for the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-23-CD210223.u79	Pick it up on. Good afternoon. Thank you very much, Mr President. It has already been said, today is 23 February, 23-F, and forty years ago from that coup d'état. Yesterday, as an anecdote, the Royal House had a lapsus, wrote an announcement saying that today they will attend the commemoration of the coup d'état. That involved a series of jokes, comments and deleted the message. But can you imagine for a moment that, instead of the official version, that story that the king saved democracy that day - even if the UPN spokesman believes it - the head of state that day would have had some role in inciting, collaborating or knowing the coup d'état, as happened to his predecessors, his father and grandfather, what would have happened? Nothing would have happened, because the king is inviolable, unpunished. But put yourself on another worse case. Imagine that there is a king who commits a magnicide, a fratricide. What would happen? Nothing, absolutely nothing. Or imagine he's a commissioner, a corrupt tax evader, who has money in tax havens. What would happen? Nothing, absolutely nothing. Or imagine that, suddenly, he gives up his constitutional work and start making politics and ultra speeches. What would happen? Nothing, absolutely nothing, is unpunished, inviolable. This isn't new. A similar problem occurred during the Second Republic because after the first Bourbon restoration, there was an article in the 1876 Constitution declaring the king sacred and inviolable. In the second Borbonic restoration, the one carried out by the dictator Franco, after the Constitution he only had the title of inviolable. Well, in that Second Republic this same House developed a commission of inquiry called the Committee of Responsibilities-by-law, driven by the Socialist Party, or temporal, or mores - and in that commission there was the frustration of many parliamentarians who carried out - and so they affirmed in their conclusions - a political trial declaring themselves as sovereign court of the nation. As a summary of all those crimes that could have been blamed on King Alfonso XIII - I say that they could have been blamed because, since he was sacred and inviolable, nothing could be blamed on him - they declared him a traitor to the homeland, among other things, and also claimed that he would be degraded of all his dignity, rights and titles, and declared him fallen, without ever being able to claim those titles for him or for his successors. Well, you know how the story goes, that dictator Franco decided to restore the Bourbon monarchy. There's a problem right now. One parliamentarian said - he declared himself monarchic - that the monarchy was exemplary, that there had been a period of exemplaryness during the Transition. Well, I see it somewhat contradictory because if the monarchy, if the king is exemplary, what problem is there to remove inviolability? If so exemplary, why do you need that inviolability? But the problem comes when it is not so exemplary and acts are committed that, if it were not unpunished and inviolable, would be crimes. Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, without acrid - Mrs Telechea was saying - I am convinced that you support the withdrawal of the inviolability of the head of state because it is a thing of common sense and because, moreover, you have repeated it as active and passive. We've been read by the honourable Member most of the Chamber. Can you clarify at this time what the problem is to move forward on that request you were going to make? I know they're defending that they're republicans of monarchical values. This must be kind of like being vegan, but eating a good chop once in a while. This is common sense. As long as they withdraw these prebends, privileges or impunity from the Head of State - and I finish, Mr President - it would also be good for them to make progress in transparency and clarity when it comes to knowing what is happening in the Royal House, because the time of laundering and storytelling I believe has already passed. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-23-CD210223.u80	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-23-CD210223.u81	Thank you very much, President. We are debating a non-law proposal by the Republican Parliamentary Group urging the Government to initiate appropriate procedures to suppress both the inviolability of the king's person and the abdication of the king's emeritus oreina and his consort, the Queen consort and the Queen's consort, and the Princess or Prince of Asturias and her consort. As is well known, this is the content of the amendment tabled by the Basque Parliamentary Group in the XII Legislature to a motion by citizens, which urged the Government to initiate constitutional reform procedures to suppress the severance of deputies, senators and members of the Government. We will therefore vote in favour of this initiative. The same as at the time, we will once again put on the table that the Basque Parliamentary Group is prepared to start a debate for the abolition of all the existing outbursts, without exception of any kind. Without exception from members of the Government, deputies, senators, members of the State Security Forces and the Autonomous Communities; without exception from members of the Armed Forces; without exception from the judicial career and without exception from other members of the public administration and the public sector. Ladies and gentlemen, it is also worth remembering that when the situation of certain groups of defendants was already in question - we understand that in a biased way - the organic law 3/2014 was introduced through the back door and in a time of co-existence, by which the abdication of King John Charles I, the abdications provided for in article 55 bis of the Organic Law of the Judiciary, was made effective. As far as the abolition of the king's inviolability in his non-institutional activity is concerned, that is, that he is not subject to a referendum by the President of the Government and, where appropriate, by the competent ministers, since in these cases the people who endorse the king's actions assume responsibility, we have nothing more to add to what we said in September 2018 in this very House on the occasion of the debate he was commenting on that initiative of the Citizens Parliamentary Group. However, we must bring to this moment and remember that the normative responses to the configuration of the legal regime of the institutions are never alien to the reality in which they operate. By putting a case that we have seen these days I am going to quote the case of Italy, which has a double investiture in the Senate and in the Lower House, precisely because as a result of Mussolini's fascism, and after the war, they proposed that there should be a double investiture because they did not want a strong leader, a strong president of the government that could bring them back to a fascist dictatorship, to emerge in any way. That is why they have a double investiture, a double motion of censure; an exception in the constitutional regimes of our environment, but precisely because of what I said to them, because the institutions and their legal regimes are never alien to the reality in which they operate. In our case, in the case now before us, the appearance shown by the private facts that have surrounded the now emeritus head of State during his term of office is of such magnitude and significance that the current legal order cannot in any way constitute an obstacle, a shortcut or a fence that it can be investigated in them with all the procedural guarantees of a democratic State governed by law. The opposite would be to give a letter of nature to impunity, which repugnant any sensitivity in an advanced society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-23-CD210223.u82	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Bal Francés has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-23-CD210223.u83	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, everyone. Today we are brought here Esquerra Republicana de Catalunya, as usual, one of those initiatives for which there is absolutely no authority, because you will already tell me what authority Esquerra has to talk about equality between Spaniards, which is in what they base their initiative, including equality between Catalans, or in the fight against corruption. You have no résumé in these two areas and, moreover, it is that whenever you bring an initiative here you do not do so to strengthen the pillars of democracy, but always to weaken democracy. For example, you have a very simple solution to stand on the side of the Democrats: tell people to go home and not throw stones at the Mossos d'Esquadra. You have dedicated yourselves to moaning, just as you have made, on the other hand, your dear friends of Podemos. Mr. Echenique said this morning it was wrong to burn containers. That's supposed to mean throwing stones at the police must be fine. Explain this to the hoteliers and to those who have seen their shops looted and vandalized. On the issue of regeneration - as you say that you are very clean and that you bring here a measure in favor of the pulcrity of the system - I remind you that you voted against the law of comprehensive fight against corruption of Citizens, which allowed the political parties to be held accountable for the acts of corruption of their parties. I remind you that you are managing and negotiating a Government of the Generalitat with Laura Borràs, who is accused of breaking contracts, who is negotiating the Government of Mr Jové, who is accused of the coup d'état on 1 October, and that the president of his party is a convicted convict who will soon return to prison when his third degree is revoked. We, when we enter coalition governments, do what we do is to expel the accused, the accused and the convicted. And what you do is reward them, put on a red carpet and tell them how well you've done it. We respect the rule of law, we respect the Constitution and the laws, we have to recognize these forty years of democracy, this period of peace, progress and stability in which the Head of State has had much to do with it. You - the nationalists, the separatists, the Puemites - undermine the institutions of the State and speak of the regime of 78. Why? Because the king is a symbol of the unity and permanence of the state and you are enemies of Spain, you want to break this country. Because the king, precisely, symbolizes that unity of the State, embodies the values of our Constitution: the equality of all Spaniards; the freedom of all, not only of those you decide; justice - says Article 1 of our Constitution -; solidarity among all Spaniards, and political pluralism, in short, the national sovereignty that resides in the Spanish people and that represents the king of Spain. Today, forty years ago on 23 February 1981, today is the day when all together we had to sing to freedom and democracy. Where were you to sing that song to freedom and democracy? They were not, the partners of the Government of Spain were not: the Block was not, Bildu was not, PNV was not, Esquerra was not, Junts was not, P CAT was not. No, of course, they were not, they did not want to celebrate the triumph of Spanish democracy. Why? Well, as has already been said here, because also on October 3, 2017 the current head of state went on television saying that you were not going to be able to give a coup d'état against Spain, that Spain was not going to break, that the Constitution was going to be imposed. And that's what's up with you guys. You will understand that your initiatives are taken for the benefit of inventory when you are a party of totalitarian and xenophobic origins, as my colleague Guillermo Díaz always reminds you. The subject of inviolability is that you, moreover, have not studied it. The first thing that draws my attention is that they want to reform the Constitution by means of a motion derived from interpellation. They remind me of VOX in plenary last week when they wanted to reform the Constitutional Court through a non-law proposal. How the extremes look! Why? Because they don't respect the law, ultimately. I want to tell you that you can reform many things of the Constitution and the Crown, that you can talk about it quietly, not through a motion or a GNP. But, look, it turns out that this inviolability exists in the United States, it exists in article 67 of the French Constitution, it exists in the Italian Constitution, it exists in countries like Finland, Austria, Ireland or Germany, and why does all these countries begin? With the error of republics; they are not parliamentary monarchies, they are republics that establish the inviolability of the head of state and regulate it in one way or another. Well, look, before you bring an initiative here, study law. I, of course, offer to resolve as many doubts as the Spanish Constitution offers you so that you do not continue to be ridiculous. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-23-CD210223.u84	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Alonso-Cuevillas and Mr Sayrol have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-23-CD210223.u85	Mr President, Mr Bal, if you also need to clarify the differences between the coup d'état, which is a crime against the Constitution, and the crimes against public order, I was pleased to hear. Today many have celebrated with great pomp the 40th anniversary of a coup d'état, of the last military coup d'état, and the roles that allow us to know and demand responsibility from the commander-in-chief, that white elephant who is undoubtedly leading the coup d'état, have not yet been declassified. But the curiosities of fate brings us here today to discuss the lifting of the procedural privileges that affect the Crown, not only the king's immunity but also the civil and criminal suffocation of the royal family and that criminal overprotection of the honor of the royal family. The story referred to earlier by Mr Iñarritu explains to us that the Bourbons in recent years have been characterized by their despotism, their corruption, their sexual outbursts; their despotism supporting dictatorships, supporting coups d'état, using the army and the secret services to suppress dissent, to silence uncomfortable lovers. For her corruption Fernando VII died with a millionaire account in the Bank of London; the regent Maria Cristina had to flee; she had to flee Elizabeth II; she had to flee Alfonso XIII, of which, by the way, Valle-Inclán said: The last Bourbon has been cast not as king but as thief - luck that he said at other times, because today he would be in prison as Hasel or in prison as Valtònyc -; not to speak of Juan Carlos anymore. And with many sexual defiances there have been kings who have characterized themselves - Alfonso XIII - as producers of porn. [[Rumors]] In short, it would not be more important if it were not for the amount of illegitimate children they have left, who have been denied the right to recognition of their filiation, or the involvement of the secret services and State institutions in trying to cover it up. If we ask the Spaniards, they would certainly tell us that we must put an end to all those privileges, it is called Juan Carlos, it is called Felipe, it is called Leonor, it is perhaps called a possible regent Leticia; they would tell us that we must put an end to all that. The doubt will be what the parties that support this most progressive government in history will do; not so much what the PSOE will do, which we already imagine - making fork with VOX, exactly the same PSOE, VOX, PP and what remains of Citizens, to continue to shield any attempt of investigation that affects the Royal House, that affects the crimes of state. By the way, crimes against humanity do not prescribe, where is the Attorney General's Office? Because this week some recordings have been known that should have immediately activated the opening of the corresponding investigations - but see what balances We can do, whether it's still the 15-M Podemos or that We can do so many balances to keep saying that they defend the squares, but they don't leave the armchairs. Let's see what you deal with your partners. Mr Asens, I recommend that the next time you make a pact with the Socialist Party, you demand an international mediator, because it has been seen that your word is worthless. If we ask the Spaniards, we know what they would tell us; that we must lift all those privileges, that we must end the immunity, that we must demand responsibilities, be called as they are called, who has stolen or defrauded and who returns what has been stolen or defrauded, that we must eliminate criminal protection, that we can sing or tell what the royal family does, and they will demand something else; they will require the present king to return the keys of the republic. You continue to boast of full democracy, we do not believe it and, therefore, a more solid and growing majority will continue to work to shape our Catalan republic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-23-CD210223.u86	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations, Mr Asens Llodrà has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-23-CD210223.u87	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Alonso-Cuevillas, lessons of republicanism from an heir party of the monarchical convergence, none. Mr Bal, you want to give us here, the ladies and gentlemen of the Republican Left, lessons of law and not even read the verdict of the trial, which does not speak of coup d'état; correct your notes. A day like today, forty years ago, precisely at this hour one of the most traumatic moments of Congress was being lived, and now that we see both in the street and even here moments of Francoist exaltation, we cannot forget what those forty shots of Tejero meant. We cannot forget because to forget that is to forget the forces that provoked it without overcoming them today. Fascism suffices the space of a crack to reborn with new forms, with new clothes and, therefore, we cannot lower the guard. It's a latent threat. It is not true that our democracy is perfect, our democracy advances because we are able to point out its imperfections, its limitations, its shortcomings, and it is a democratic anomaly that forty years later we still have a Francoist law, that of official secrets, which we have been trying to reform for seven years. What are you afraid of, Mr. Adanero? He asked the spokesman for UPN because he had previously made an intervention attributing all the merits to the Emeritus king that today we have democracy. It is true that it was a condition of the Francos who were imposed on the Republicans, on the Democrats, in order to have democracy, and we would like to know what the king emeritus' real participation in that episode was not only at the end, when he disallows the military who rose on his behalf. It is true that then, in a marketing operation, of laundering, it acquired a legitimacy that was not of origin but of exercise, because the legitimacy of origin we know where it comes from; it comes from Franco. He was the successor ofFranco, promised the fundamental principles of the movement. And you, Mr. Bal and Mr. Adanero, were talking about October 1st. Well, that was also a marketing operation. The only blow that took place on 1 October was the blows that the protesters received when they exercised their fundamental rights, even the Supreme has said that this was a public order crime and not a crime against the constitutional order, but you continue to speak of a coup d'état because you need to regain that legitimacy. However, this legitimacy has faded, like the millions that have vanished with the policy of plundering the monarchy. I don't think it takes being a Republican to accept that the monarchy is an opaque institution, that it doesn't account for the citizenry, but neither does this Congress. Today the king has come to tell us about his father's exemplary behavior and has not told us anything about the corruption scandals surrounding the monarchy. I do not think it takes being a republican to accept that the monarchical institution lacks democratic controls, that it has a series of honors, privileges, that are anachronistic, that it has areas of impunity - as has been said before - that are incompatible with democracy. When one rapper goes to prison and another has to go to exile, we have a democratic problem. When freedom of expression is more threatened now than in the 1980s, when the coup took place - then the jokes against Carrero Blanco or the irreverent songs were not pursued - we have a democratic problem. When Armada, one of the thugs, head of the Royal House, was pardoned after four years of a thirty-year sentence, when the LAGs were pardoned after a short time - four months - and, instead, those who have not used weapons like them but who have acted peacefully, like Junqueras or Cuixart, are still in prison three years later, we have a democratic problem. And we have a democratic problem when this Congress cannot investigate the corruption crimes of the monarchy. That is why we are voting for this initiative today, because the democratic principle must be imposed above the monarchical principle. The principle of democratic legitimacy cannot have competitors. There can't be a head of state...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-23-CD210223.u88	Your Honor, you must finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-23-CD210223.u89	I'm done, President. It cannot be that there is a head of state who has a patent of course for delinquency. It is not true, Mr Bal, when you say it happens in other countries; in other countries what happens is that inviolability affects only official acts, but not private acts. When a head of state delinquent, in any democratic country that is pursued. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-23-CD210223.u90	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Sánchez García has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-23-CD210223.u91	With venial, Mr. President. The ERC Group is truly recalcitrant in the question of monarchy, but it has to shut up; specialist in coups d'état and repeater: 1934 and 2017. They insist, they and others - I do not remember because this is an absolute verbal chaos - in which Don Juan Carlos has escaped; no, Don Juan Carlos has been forced to leave Spain by the government formed by the Socialist Party and Podemos. And the heir of Convergence, his spokesman, speaks of corruption; you too have to shut up, it would be well for you, in the end, silence if you had a minimum sense of decorum. Article 56.3 of the Constitution declares the king's inviolability. Therefore, this proposal lacks a minimally methodical meaning, because the removal of such inviolability would require a constitutional reform, which the proponents seem to ignore. The constitutions of the European parliamentary monarchies continue to declare the monarch's inviolability; for example, that of Belgium, Article 88; that of Denmark, Article 13; that of Norway, Article 5; that of the Netherlands, Article 42.2; that of Sweden, Article 7. According to some constitutionalists, inviolability does not preclude the king's disqualification from exercising his authority by the General Courts under article 59.2, and these interpreters of the text do not limit the disqualification to cases of psychic or physical incapacity. According to other constitutionalists, inviolability is an institution that today lacks meaning once there is that of endorsement, as provided for in article 64 of the Constitution, so it is idle because the king does not respond to the acts that have been endorsed, although it does to those that, outside the political sphere, were not endorsed. If I make these interpretations for dialectical and purely dialectical purposes right now, he concluded that what you are claiming is totally useless. It serves no purpose, so please, before you go to this rostrum and before you write these texts, I would ask you to study with a little more detail what you propose. [[Applauds]] It is true that article 55 bis of the Organic Law of the Judiciary, introduced through a reform in 2014, has established the strewning of the consort of the king or queen, the prince or princess of Asturias and his consort and the king o'reina who has abdicated and his consort. That's right. And what is exorbitant about this severance when there is civil and criminal severance in articles 56 and 57 of the same Organic Law of the Judiciary for the President of the Government, the President of Congress, the President of the Senate, the President of the Constitutional Court, the President of the General Council of the Judiciary, the President of the Council of State, Members of Parliament and Senators? Can you tell me that it has such an exorbitant stumbling? [[Applauds]] The proponents are of republican ideology, which is respectable. It is respectable that they express their ideology, but it is not so that actions - actions - are intended to overthrow the monarchical institution or manifestations of the Government Tendentes to criticize the institution of the Head of State, as is done by the present Government, because it is a constitutional disloyalty manifest that it does not need an explanation. [[Applauds]] It is unintelligible, moreover, in the mouth of the Republican Left of Catalonia, that you seek the suppression of inviolability. What you claim - and you say it - is the independent Catalan republic. Then what do you care about the Spanish monarchy? Can you explain? [[Applauds]] An anti-monarchal fobic pathology is what you suffer. Mr President, may I ask whether there is any psychiatrist in this Chamber who assists these proposers on this phobia? [[Laughs.-Applause.]] It is morbid in the Freudian sense, i.e. sick. His background is in the Second Republic. Yes, something of that deplorable morning of November 20, 1931 has been read here. President Azaña said - and concluded -: This is a political process, not legal, without previous law, contrary to all the principles of criminal law. President Azaña also said - and is quoted in his Complete Works, published in Mexico -: The indictment is a detestable act. Ladies and gentlemen, this is all bullshit. You lack seriousness and cannot come here with a minimum moral entity to propose what you intend. You are disqualified for such a thing by your past and your present politician.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-23-CD210223.u92	You have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-23-CD210223.u93	I'm done. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-23-CD210223.u94	For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr. Mateu Istúriz has the floor. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-23-CD210223.u95	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. With the venom. I suppose you have all been aware of the act that has taken place in this house this morning, an act presided over by his majesty King Philip VI. We have remembered the most unworthy moment of our democratic system, which was aborted thanks, as precisely his majesty said this morning, to the firmness and authority - decisive for the triumph of democracy - of Don Juan Carlos I, then king. We have to thank you, of course, that we can continue in a democratic regime, that we are gathered here, that Mrs Telechea throws off her figure, and of course that the Spaniards have in the Constitution their fundamental rights and freedoms and their exercise. Our group has not missed, at all, the failure to appear in the act of six independenceist and nationalist groups, why, because they know that the only thing they want is to throw away all the work that has been done since the Constitution and for his majesty the King Don Juan Carlos I. In fact, the attention that Mrs Telechea has remained seated after the President of this House has reminded us of what has happened today has drawn us a great deal and powerfully. Because of this, you may be sitting there boring us with the issue of independence, rather than defending the unity of Spain. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, I must recall Article 1 of the Constitution when it says that Spain is a parliamentary monarchy. I will not go in and discuss the legal issue with you. If you have an interest - even if it doesn't matter to you - read the comments to the Constitution made by the House's lawyers, which are posted on the Congress website and which are frankly good, then you will learn what the prerogatives mean. Yours has nothing to do with the constitutional principle of equality before the law, which you use as an alibi in this pamphlet you have presented, without a minimum of rigour and with which you want to work. I'm going to explain to you, briefly, what the prerogatives mean. The prerogatives, including the parliamentarians you have, are inviolability, immunity, jurisdictional jurisdiction and severance; it is a system of protection against possible threats or measures that a parliamentarian may be subjected to during the exercise of his or her mandate. This definition I offer you already contains the elements to fix the concept. Parliamentary prerogatives and those affecting other persons, such as heads of State, are not a privilege, they are not a unique right that breaks the principle of equality before the law of all citizens and creates discrimination; they are not established for the benefit of individuals but rather for the protection of the institution to which they represent and guarantee the exercise of their functions in an independent manner. Why are you jealous, why are you obsessed with removing them from your majesty the king and not you? Of course, you have an explanation: because without these prerogatives you would not be able to launch, with complete freedom and with complete impunity, the accusations, defamations and condemnations of people who have not even been accused. Yours is something else, ladies and gentlemen; it is a continuous attack on the head of state in all possible ways; the Malaysian boot with which you torture us in that dream of yours of the republic, with which you have found the perfect excuse to live and stay in the candlestick. I have to tell you, frankly, that show is already boring to all of us. In a crisis as atrocious as the one we are experiencing, the Spaniards are not interested in their anti-monarchical, disruptive and destructive discourse; the only thing that offers them certainty is the figure that you attack with that contumacy, that of the head of state, our dear king. In the noble office of politics some contribute and others break and untie; they use their voters to sow hatred, not to improve the well-being of the people, of the Spaniards. You never bring anything to improve unemployment, to improve the self-employed, to the businesses ruined in Catalonia; I remind you that you have made more than 6,000 companies run away from Catalonia because of that legal uncertainty arising from that false Catalan sovereignty. You bring division, you bring hatred, and you talk about nightly and impossible republics. I want to remind Mr. Rufián of the content of a tweet that is really unworthy when he talks about rappers with really condemned songs. What's good with you, that doomed truth that proclaims that you attack in the back of your head the militants of the People's Party? Of course, the content of this tweet is truly despicable. You give shelter to seditious people, praising cowardly figures who flee Spain and settle in cassocks like small-mountain and chick and turnip kingfish. They give up their efforts, ladies and gentlemen; the monarchy is, has been and will continue to be the model of organization of our State because we want it mostly by the Spaniards and because, throughout our history, it has been shown that it is the institution that has provided our country with the most stability. Leave it now; our vote is a no-fly; no, to your bitter pretension that you bring us today; no, to your attacks on the monarchy; no, to your strategy of breaking Spain; in short, no, to you and your politics. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-23-CD210223.u96	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, Mrs Crespin Rubio has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-23-CD210223.u97	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no better day to re-edit the commitment to a full democracy, the respect and strengthening of its institutions, than forty years after that 23-F; a 23-F which left us as a result of the emergence of a people of free citizens who peacefully applauded and shielded the triumph of our democracy. The PSOE will leave no doubt that it is in the same place and in the same way, protecting and supporting our Constitution. We say and do the same, Mrs Telechea, fulfilling without hesitation the obligations and demands to keep alive the pact of coexistence that we have agreed and that has brought the greatest period of peace and progress recorded in the history of Spain. And today I bring this rostrum something I have done before - and I will do it again as many times as it is necessary, since it is so recurrent - the debate on the constitutional pact. Mrs Telechea, I will say to you: We are very proud socialists, because the PSOE is democratic by conviction and socialist from the heart. [[Applauds]] We have the security and the certainty to count on what is necessary for the success of a modern and full democracy; and it is proven, Your Honor, that it is with socialist governments that we have made progress as quickly as possible and in a more robust way we have conquered that social and democratic state of which this country enjoys. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, I know that this sometimes bothers us, but it is what we socialists do every time we have the honour to govern; to take advantage of the confidence of the citizenry to restore it by always reinforcing the higher values of our Constitution and responding to the demands of time that we have to manage, with respect for freedom well understood and defended, knowing that one's freedom ends where the other one begins - that is why we condemn what has happened on the streets these days -; with social justice and equality translated into new rights; quality public services and protection in the face of an unprecedented health and social crisis. Ladies and gentlemen of Esquerra, stick to the same thing; citizens are going through limit situations because of the consequences of the health crisis. Put on your side to give stability and exit to the Government of Catalonia; make no mistake, make candidate Illa president as soon as possible; Catalonia needs it and the Catalans deserve it. [[Applauds]] It is necessary to place the debates of this Congress on what concerns people. They have been amateurs from the right and from the independence groups - it is curious this detail - to question the constitutional debate and the democratic quality of this country. And no, they will not find the socialists feeding the confrontation or questioning the institutions or the noble task of politics. Ladies and gentlemen, we are going to vote against this non-legislative proposal and we are doing so, in addition to everything that has been said, because a GNP cannot tackle reforms of this kind, which need the majority consensus of this House. On the other hand, suffocation does not mean the weakening of judicial independence, which is enshrined in article 117 of the Constitution. It is therefore possible to demand the responsibilities to proceed without altering the normal functioning of the institutions because, ladies and gentlemen, it is not a question of prosecuting institutions. This debate is a debate followed very closely by the socialists, and to those socialist comrades and comrades I want to tell you here, today, what our colleague Luis Gómez Llorente already said from this rostrum in the constitutional debate and repeat our longing Rubalcaba when the king's abdication occurred: 'If the monarchy is democratically established, as long as it is constitutional, we consider ourselves compatible with it'. Forty-two years later the socialists do not hide our preference, it is known to all, but there are plenty of examples that in both power and opposition socialism is not incompatible with the monarchy when this institution fulfils the most scrupulous respect for popular sovereignty and the will for reforms that the majority of the people want at every moment. I'm done, President, and I'm done as I started. We are not going to fall into sterile debates because the democratic quality in our country is not questioned. The PSOE is here to build within the law, as always, from the government or from the opposition, whether we like it or not. The PSOE is not a posture or photo game, like those of Columbus or as those of independence; the photos, ladies and gentlemen, are a day's flower. This is a party with a serious stance and a work endorsed election after election to continue to live up to the confidence that most citizens give us, but above all to respond as it is due to each and every Spanish and Spanish from democratic institutions because the PSOE, ladies and gentlemen, is a party of government. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-23-CD210223.u98	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-23-CD210223.u99	We continue with the non-law proposal of the Plural Parliamentary Group on the amendment of the Royal Decree 1971/1999 of 23 December 1999 to recognize neurodegenerative diseases as a minimum degree of disability of 33% and for the creation of a new type of disability based on the typology of these diseases. Mr Rego Candaimil has the floor for the presentation of this initiative.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-23-CD210223.u100	Thank you, Mr. President. Although I will give reasons, and I think they are solid, I would like us to start by saying that this proposal, not a law, is not a simple political proposal but rather a question of humanity, of dealing with situations that affect the lives of hundreds of thousands of people and that the public administration has not been able to deal adequately so far. The diagnosis of multiple sclerosis, as well as the rest of neurodegenerative diseases, impacts the lives of people diagnosed and their families. These are diseases that are characterized by their chronicity, the functional deterioration of the affected parts and because they can cause physical and cognitive alterations that evolve in an unpredictable way. The severe physical and cognitive deterioration resulting from the same causes in many cases a loss of protection for adults of working age who suffer from them, as it is common for problems to arise in relation to the continuity of the job, the prospects of promotion and career and the reconciliation between their working life and the development of the disease or also with the need to reconcile the caregiver. It is for these reasons that the different associations of patients and family members demand that 33% of disability should be recognized automatically with the diagnosis and hence, logically, the corresponding one. People with neurodegenerative diseases - multiple sclerosis, Parkinson's, Alzheimer's, ALS, neuromuscular diseases - should have access to some social protection, until now non-existent, immediately after diagnosis. At the moment in the Spanish State, protection depends on the existence of a disability through established bars, which are not suitable for neurodegenerative diseases, diseases which, in addition to being incurable, adversely affect the quality of life from the beginning. Thus, for example, in multiple sclerosis the symptomatology is very diverse and there are numerous invisible manifestations of the disease, such as fatigue, situation of outbreaks or cognitive alterations, which are not measured in these scales but which undoubtedly affect the day-to-day life of the people affected. In many cases this entails the abandonment of work by the sick person or his or her primary caregiver, with the consequent damage that this entails. Failure to consider the needs of these persons in the assessment system or to recognize a certain level of protection from diagnosis therefore entails situations of helplessness for the persons concerned. Therefore, it is urgent to articulate appropriate scales and protocols, creating a new type of disability for neurodegenerative diseases, as well as special attention to urgent and serious cases. People affected by these diseases should be sought to remain active as long as possible, while contributing to their quality of life and well-being. The Royal Decree 1971/1999 of 23 December 1999 on the procedure for the recognition, declaration and qualification of the degree of disability regulates the procedure whereby a person is granted a certain degree of disability. Depending on the degree recognized, certain aids or benefits may or may not be available. But, as I say, the established framework is not appropriate to these situations and therefore negatively affects the rights and equal opportunities that all people with neurodegenerative diseases should have recognized as citizens. Nor does the system of valuation for access to permanent, partial, total, absolute or high disability pensions take into account the particularities and needs of people with neurodegenerative diseases. With the automatic recognition of a minimum of 33 % disability and given that this is an essential requirement, the persons concerned could access basic social protection measures such as the reservation of places, adaptations to oppositions, protected employment, incentives to businesses, subsidies for self-employment, support for studies and training, support for household adaptations, etc. I would like to recall that already in 2011 and 2017 they were approved in the health and disability commissions Non-law proposals requesting the government to regulate the possibility of recognizing 33% of disability together with the diagnosis of a neurodegenerative disease when the person concerned requested it. However, no action has yet been taken in this regard. Many entities have been fighting for this recognition for years. A public petition, for example, has already gathered more than two hundred thousand signatures, and this initiative also captures the testimony of a person to whom multiple sclerosis braked his work career and who relates how - I quote textually - 'fatigue, pain, lack of coordination, the side effects of treatments and other symptoms, many of them invisible, appear unannounced, hindering any daily tasks. However, for others they go unnoticed.' Today, as a reaction on social media to the information that this debate was going to take place, another affected person wrote: 'Please, I wish it could be achieved. It cannot be that a person suffering from all the invisible symptoms of multiple sclerosis and knowing that it will not improve tell him that he has a 5% disability'. They are first-person testimonies that insist that one of the characteristics of this type of disease is the so-called invisible symptoms, invisible to the barems, of course, to the Administration, not unfortunately to the people who suffer from them. This is what we have to solve. As I said at the beginning, more than just a political proposal, it is a question of humanity. Do you know that in diseases such as multiple sclerosis the sick person type is a woman of about twenty years old? Can we do an empathy exercise to get on that person's skin, to understand how this affects his or her vital expectations or family? I appeal in particular to the parties that make up the Government. In 2017 you voted in favour of a similar proposal when you were in opposition. Do not change your position now that you are in the government. I don't think sick people and their families would understand. Today we can demonstrate that politics is not always cold or purely economic calculation, that it is capable of understanding and meeting human needs and dignity. Let's do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-23-CD210223.u101	Thank you very much. In defence of the amendments put forward by your groups, the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, Mrs Saavedra Muñoz, intervened.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-23-CD210223.u102	Thank you, President. Good evening. In Unity We can understand that the State has an obligation to ensure the rights of persons in a situation of vulnerability or with difficulties for an autonomous life, no doubt. In recent years, people with disabilities or dependent status in our country have suffered very serious cuts, which have caused much suffering, as a result of the neoliberal policies implemented by the People's Party. Indeed, this Government is clearly reversing these cuts and the current budgets devote much more resources to social policies and attention to functional diversity and dependence, and there is no doubt that much more needs to be done. We agree with the proponent of this GNP on the need to improve care for people with neurodegenerative diseases, of course. However, we do not think the formula they are proposing, the concrete proposal, is appropriate, and he explained why. The assessment of the degree of disability is carried out by specialized teams, according to bars that attend to the limitations for carrying out activities of daily life, and consider variables of a social or psychological nature. Medical diagnosis is part of the data to be considered in this assessment, but a medical diagnosis cannot be translated directly into a degree of disability, as you propose, neither for neurodegenerative diseases nor for any other. This claim responds to an already outdated medical model of disability, in which uniform responses were given to different problems and injured rights, such as cases of school segregation by medical diagnosis to a minor. However, we do share some of your concerns in this GNP. Disability assessments, especially in cases of negative and rapid developments, should be immediate, no doubt, and subsequent reviews should not be subject to deadlines and procedures that may not respond to the specific situations of these people with these very serious diseases. But automatic certification of 33%, as proposed by the GNP, would not allow these people to have the necessary support for reduced mobility or assistance to third persons, for example. What these people diagnosed with neurodegenerative or similar diseases need is a rapid and complete assessment, with a specific protocol that determines the degree of disability, which can be much more than 33%, to access the essential benefits. This is what we propose in our UN amendment We can, in agreement with the Autonomous Communities, establish specific protocols to ensure the immediate assessment of the degree of disability following a diagnosis of this nature and that the review deadlines are flexible and adapt to the evolution of the disease so as not to cause defencelessness. This ensures that the degree of disability assessed is in line with the actual situation of the person receiving the relevant assistance. We can also consider that aid and support should be increased, improving the response to the needs of these people. There will undoubtedly be significant progress in this legislature with the implementation of the dependency shock plan or with the revision of the long-term care model. Another aspect implicit in this GNP that we consider relevant is the updating of the scale for the assessment of disability. It is a demand of this sector of disability because it has become obsolete and its adaptation to the peculiarities of this type of disease is urgent. In recent years, work has been done on the technical updating of these scales in line with the specifications of WHO and also the International Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, in dialogue with the autonomous communities and social entities, and their implementation is nearing completion. In our amendment we also propose this dialogue with the associations in order to adapt the protocols and to adapt them to the needs of these people. Finally, we cannot agree with a proposal to create a new type of disability for neurodegenerative diseases, as well as for cancer or other diseases; this is not the way out. We do not exactly share the terms of their NLP, although the goal is to adequately care for people with neurodegenerative diseases, which are severe and usually of rapid evolution. Our vote will depend on how we value the amendments that we have tabled together with the Socialist Group. On that basis, we will decide our position. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-23-CD210223.u103	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Romero Vilches has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-23-CD210223.u104	Mr. Asens, rapists don't go to jail for being rapists, they go in for being criminals. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, VOX is a formation that is very clear about the idea that people's rights are above political interests. That is why we are so drawn to the attention that those political groups that work so hard for the fragmentation of the State, demanding more and more particular competences for their respective regions, suddenly realize that issues that directly affect specific groups, especially the most vulnerable, can only be addressed from a national perspective. [[Applauds]] Of course I do, ladies and gentlemen. It is not reasonable that the treatment of people affected by neurodegenerative diseases such as ALS, Alzheimer's, Parkinson's, multiple sclerosis and many more in Spain suffer from seventeen different health systems, with a different treatment and a barema that is applied differently according to the autonomous communities. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not fair or fair to treat similar problems in an unequal way, and that is why it is reasonable that since the Congress of Deputies it is regulated in the sense of homologating the protection of these patients and their families throughout the national territory. Our party has already presented in 2019 and 2020 initiatives that were in line with the proposal we are now debating. In particular, our proposal was discussed in the Committee on Social Rights on 25 November. Well, we have to remember that the group that is now proposing this initiative did not even intervene to show its position on this; for its part, Podemos and the Socialist Party voted against it. They will remember because it was only three months ago. But the terrible thing is the argument they gave to vote against. They argued that this was an initiative that sought only to earn political revenue and divided people into groups, and that they considered that each particular case should be dealt with individually. Ladies and gentlemen, even if you do not believe it, that was the pilgrim argument you gave us. And if not, I encourage you to search the hemeroteca and see the interventions of these groups. It turns out that the parties that most divide citizens into collectives to be proud of the representation of some of them, such as women's, homosexuals', trans', Roma's, immigrant's, accuse VOX of collectiveizing what are different problems according to each individual. You have to have a cement face! [[Applauds]] Faced with all this sectarianism and incoherence on the left, VOX is clear that protecting vulnerable people is part of our task, and that is precisely why we want to make the state sustainable to protect the state from the welfare of citizens, dismantling useless political structures that only benefit certain parasitic elites. [[The lady]] On the other hand, we must stress the fact that the commitment to automatically grant 33% disability to patients with neurodegenerative diseases has already been approved in this House, but this measure has never been implemented. I don't know what the political parties in the House were doing. Apart from the poor management of the pandemic, the priorities of recent governments have been more focused on other kinds of artificial problems, such as indoctrination of our young people in gender ideology, dialogue with the coups and bringing the ages closer to their homes. For, ladies and gentlemen, in VOX we are aware of the serious circumstances that we are currently experiencing and which exponentially increase the vulnerability of the groups affected by these diseases, so it is fair to grant the degree of disability of 33% from the moment of its diagnosis and regardless of its stage. On this point, we believe that it is necessary to urge the autonomous communities with implementing powers to bring their respective regulations into line with the national standard, and in this respect it is our amendment that we hope they will admit for the common good of all the people concerned. In conclusion, I have to reiterate once again that VOX is a responsible party that takes parliamentary activity very seriously and does not reject initiatives for the simple fact that it is presented by certain politicians as in other cases.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-23-CD210223.u105	Mrs. Romero, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-23-CD210223.u106	We therefore announce our vote in favour of this initiative. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-23-CD210223.u107	Thank you very much, Mrs Romero. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, I have the floor, Mrs González Guinda.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-23-CD210223.u108	Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing a non-legislative proposal of vital importance for patients with neurodegenerative diseases. And while each of them has its own specificity, all of them, regardless of the age of diagnosis, have a common characteristic and is the serious deterioration that patients experience in the quality of life since the onset of the disease, both they and the people in their nearest family environment. It is therefore essential to continue to work on research and early detection, and especially from the social area, the support needed for these people to continue to develop the greatest possible time and in the best way their work and personal life. I say keep working because it's never stopped working. Already in 2016, with a government of the People's Party, the Neurodegenerative Diseases Strategy was approved within the Interterritorial Council of the National Health System; a strategy that has as main lines of action to improve the diagnosis, to give personalized care to patients and to establish programs that facilitate the breathing of those who care for the people affected. This strategy since its adoption has become a dynamic instrument for meeting successful experiences in our autonomous communities. It is curious that in the last days of the strategy in November 2019, already organized by a socialist government, the outstanding speakers were representatives of the councils of two communities governed by the People's Party, Castile and León and Galicia, who presented the successful socio-health experiences that take place in each of their communities. Among others, a functional plan for the care of people with multiple sclerosis, with the creation of the figure of the reference neurologist and the nurse manager of the case; the platform Argos, a model in network of care where we find the telerehabilitation assistant; the INTeco, in Palencia, with home support to the patients, and the Interreg Project, in collaboration with Portugal. All this paralleled with the work on the creation of a comprehensive plan for neurodegenerative diseases, aimed at professionals and families in the respective communities. In addition, over the past ten years, intense efforts have been made to create a new disability standard, as the current one is understood to be obsolete and not adapted to the social model of understanding the disability required by the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, which should already be in piloting phase in Castilla y León, Madrid, Balearic Islands, Valencia and Navarre, as announced at the last meeting of the Territorial Council of Social Services in November 2019. For our part, we are interested in being informed about this and have requested so. But we must continue to work and, indeed, what we are discussing today is an outstanding subject, the recognition of the degree of 33% disability of people with neurodegenerative diseases from the moment of their diagnosis. Today's proposal is urgent, more urgent than ever, following the impact that the COVID pandemic has had on these patients. As we are told by different associations, the pandemic has led to further deterioration and faster progression of their disease, as these pathologies require continued therapies over time to curb the deterioration of their personal autonomy, and confinement, in many cases, truncated them. In addition, since the International Federation of Multiple Sclerosis it was warned last November that the latest studies show that they are at increased risk of experiencing a more serious case of COVID and to this should be added that many of the treatments of this disease function as suppressors of the immune system. Here I make a call to consider them priority patients in the vaccination system. Ladies and gentlemen of Podemos, stop talking so much about what we have done or what we have stopped doing, I have already told you that much and well in those communities where we govern. It seems that you do not govern, You are already three years of social-communist government, rather, socialist communist, which is not the same, the social thing you are putting aside. With a vice president of Social Rights who has not been on social issues and is neither expected nor expected. Certainly, he could have attended this debate today, but he seems to be more concerned about misexercising his role as vice-president, giving herrings for unrest and applauding the misguided tweeters of his parliamentary spokesman Mr Echenique or trying to demonstrate our democracy, rather than putting on the ground with the real issues of the most vulnerable and which he is competent in his portfolio of social rights and disability. [[applause]] The misdemeanours are yours, right, but the ultimate responsibility is who keeps you in the Government. Mr. Iglesias, put yourself to it, listen to the people who suffer from these neurodegenerative diseases, meet with them, listen to the demands of the associations that represent them and get to legislate on the issues of their competence. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-23-CD210223.u109	Thank you, Mrs. González. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, Mr Sahuquillo García has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-23-CD210223.u110	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. The Plural Group, through Mr Rego, brings to the plenary a very commendable but controversial initiative. It raises two non-minor issues relating to the assessment and recognition of disability of persons with neurodegenerative diseases. Ladies and gentlemen, as we are all aware here of the daily reality of people affected by these diseases, their difficulties and their vulnerabilities, we must take this into account in order to avoid any kind of confrontation in a matter as sensitive as this, especially when people affected by these neurodegenerative diseases and their families expect us to be able to understand them and understand ourselves. The first of these issues is that 33% of disability is recognized automatically with diagnosis. We understand that doing so would mean a clear breach of the spirit of the Royal Decree 1971/1999 of 23 December, which currently governs the procedure for assessing the degree of disability and which has as its fundamental premise that not diagnoses but persons are valued. Ladies and gentlemen, the objective of assessing the degree of disability is to assess the impact that a certain permanent disability, which in turn results from one or more diseases, has on people's lives and on their opportunities for participation in the different spheres of life on equal terms with their peers. Disability is the result of the interaction between the permanent limitations of the person and the environment in which he/she develops and, consequently, there are no two equal persons despite having the same diagnosis. Their ability to participate actively in their community, gain employment or develop autonomously will depend not only on their limitations, but also on their personal abilities and the more or less inclusive environment in which they operate, as well as on natural groups - the family, friends and companions - or on the specialized support they have. All this means that in the procedure of assessing the degree of disability the teams value people and not diagnoses, as I have mentioned before, and therefore all the circumstances surrounding the person, which make them unique and different, must be taken into account. This means that two people with the same diagnosis of a neurodegenerative disease, which is the case for us, may have a very different degree of disability. Therefore, it is impossible in the current paradigm of disabilities to value by diagnosis and to grant the same degree to a whole group of people - I repeat - unique and different. Moreover, it would be unfair to treat unequally with respect to other diseases, such as cerebral palsy, spinal cord injury, stroke or even cancer, whose collectives would be harmed by a distorted application of the royal decree. And yes, ladies and gentlemen, it would be especially unfair, for these diseases that I have just mentioned to you are, from the very moment they appear, a profound limitation in people's lives. Therefore, the diagnosis of a disease is not a criterion of self-assessment of disability, since the patterns of assessment of disability are based on the severity of the consequences of the disease, whatever it may be. But my group believes that it is urgent that the State Commission for the Classification and Monitoring of the Assessment of the Degree of Disability ensures and ensures a rapid assessment of the degree of disability by the corresponding centres and assessment teams after the diagnosis of any disease, considering the specificity of neurodegenerative diseases. Ladies and gentlemen, secondly, with regard to the creation of a new type of disability based on the specific typology of these diseases, we believe that it would not be justified, because with the current type of disabilities - psychic, physical, organic and sensory - and their different combinations, all aspects of the sphere of the person who may be affected by neurodegenerative disease are collected. In conclusion, in the Socialist Parliamentary Group we are convinced - and we have claimed this in previous legislatures - that we must focus on further developing the Strategy on Neurodegenerative Diseases of the National Health System - yes, Mrs González, a strategy approved by the People's Party, but forgotten by Mr Rajoy's budget cuts - and thus equip the autonomous communities with the necessary means. By the way, EUR 3 million has in the general budgets of 2021, which Mr Rego voted against. And yes, they are necessary means in accordance with the current competitive framework and the set of actions and protocols put in place by the different autonomous communities. We must focus more on that, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-23-CD210223.u111	Thank you very much, Mr. Sahuquillo. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Ruiz de Pinedo Undiano has the floor in position-setting by the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-23-CD210223.u112	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, welcome to the meeting. Good afternoon. The proposal presented to us by Mr Rego, from the Galego Nationalist Block, is timely and necessary for us. Difficulties in recognizing real disabilities as a result of these neurodegenerative diseases are creating serious situations. These diseases, as you know, are characterized by causing physical and cognitive alterations that evolve in an unpredictable way. These are alterations that cause situations and problems that prevent us from continuing with the usual life, in the usual space and with the labor capacities and labor expectations interrupted. For this reason, it is a historical demand from different patient associations that have been demanding it, that they be recognized and that the procedures for the recognition of disability be done in an appropriate way for the same disease. And this is a request that is based on the fact that the current scales and protocols are not suitable for recognizing diseases and the needs that have, in addition, a progressive deterioration of disability. In this sense, the current barems do not fit because they do not measure symptoms that affect the daily and working life of these people, such as symptoms of fatigue, acute situations of outbreaks, cognitive disorders, etc. This is what is causing serious situations of helplessness and unprotectiveness in many people. Recognition of disability and incapacity for work from the very beginning would enable programmes of adequate social and labour protection measures to be carried out. A report from the Complutense University which was made in 2016 emphasizes and collects that less than half, 42% of the people with these diseases, did not accede to the certificate of disability and those who did, 58% who do have this recognized disability, two out of three had already recognized it to a degree greater than 75%. In other words, there is a serious problem of lack of recognition of disability in the early stages of disease development, where there are limitations and deterioration of important capacities. Therefore, it is not uncommon for delays in these assessments and revisions to be slow, and this is what is causing that on many occasions, when recognition is made it is already late. Recognition of disability is necessary, but from the previous stages and from the beginning. What has happened so far? Many institutions have often said, through non-law propositions - for example, here in Congress - that this law had to resume a prior recognition, with 33% of disability, in parallel with the realization of the diagnoses. Well, it is very significant and a sign of the task we have pending in this regard that the Strategy on Neurodegenerative Diseases of the National Health System, approved in 2016, does not mention the need to adapt these scales. It would therefore be important for this strategy to be revised and updated, with a specific chapter devoted to the recognition and assessment of disabilities and their processes. Significant steps must be taken in the legal recognition of the disability situations of people with neurodegenerative diseases and of the work disabilities caused by these diseases. That is why our group is going to support this non-legislative proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-23-CD210223.u113	Thank you very much, Mr Ruiz de Pinedo. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Barandiaran Benito has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-23-CD210223.u114	Good afternoon, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, this GNP is logically intended for people suffering from certain neurodegenerative diseases to be recognised as 33 % disabled as a result of the mere finding, the mere diagnosis of this disease. This is not a new issue, but it has been dealt with earlier in at least two committees and we believe it is appropriate to value this association, that when someone with a neurodegenerative disease comes to be recognised as having a degree of disability, the institutions will recognize a degree of protection sufficient to meet their needs, 33 % or whatever percentage. We believe that any disability has to be assessed according to an objective scale from which an individual assessment of each patient is derived, not the severity of a specific pathology and even less its comparison with other pathologies, but the degree of care that this patient will require, the degree of affectation that individuals suffer as a result of that suffering or those limitations. It is true - we note this - that this particular pathology may deserve another treatment because, as PNL explains very well, from the manifestation of symptoms to the diagnosis and, later, to its evaluation, it can spend a precious time to avoid the degree of suffering it entails. What we are talking about here as legislators is whether that door is opened not only to the recognition of a certain degree of disability for neurodegenerative diseases, but for many other pathologies. This is, if we change the valuation system, removing the qualification of the degree of disability from the person himself, from the recipient, and turning it into a kind of impersonal and automatic mechanism, which would imply the recognition of a concrete degree of disability from his or her mere diagnosis. On the contrary, the expository part of the non-law proposition warns that there are many cases of neurodegenerative diseases in which years go by, first, until some symptoms are detected and, then, until that symptomatology has preventative consequences, that is, when the consequence is having to stop working. As the explanatory statement itself says, seven out of ten diagnosed cases stop working after ten years since the diagnosis; that is, there is a great diversity of situations within the same pathology. The question is whether with the diagnosis alone it is relevant or not to recognise 33% or the percentage that is of degree of disability - I insist, from the very moment of the diagnosis - in this or other pathologies. Currently, the degree of disability is assessed by means of a scale established by the actual state decree cited, although it is the autonomous communities that value not the disease, but the limitations of the person and the social actors of his environment; that is, what is intended is to calibrate the degree of disability recognized with the effects of this disease. It should also be considered that their employment, educational, cultural and other factors that hinder their social inclusion and justify different treatments within the same pathology are also taken into account for these purposes. The recognition of 33% disability automatically without assessing the personal environment can cause unequal situations between people with the same diagnosis of neurodegenerative diseases, as well as those with regard to other diseases that are also preventative. On the contrary, we understand that what we want to talk about - and that is what we are going to do - is the need to reassess the disability assessment policy. We can agree on that, but we also think that it should not be done at the stroke of associative impulses, of particular cases or of specific pathologies. This is an issue that is too important, delicate and so nuanced as to promote casuistic legislative policies which, in our view, deserve a more objective and serious analysis. We cannot and must not vote against this proposal because we do not agree that those affected by a disease, neurodegenerative or otherwise, can and should be recognised as having a certain degree of disability, but we must be allowed to abstain critically. The easy thing is to say yes to everything, but the responsibility is to be objective and clear with a question as serious and important as that of the scheming of disabilities, that is, to objectify the degree of disability of people because of their limitations, not because of the automatism of comparing some pathologies with others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-23-CD210223.u115	Thank you very much, Mr Barandiaran. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Díaz Gómez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-23-CD210223.u116	Thank you, President. I want to start with a special reminder to all people affected by neurodegenerative diseases who in this pandemic are going through it frankly wrong, because they have a setback in many of the skills they are acquiring by the various treatments to which they are subjected or worsening in degeneration as a result of the diseases they suffer. [[Applauds]] The issue here today is not new to this House, since on several occasions other parliamentary groups have already spoken on this issue within the Committee on Integral Disability Policies. In addition, before going into the background of the matter, let me remind people like Francisco Luzón, who left us last week and who dedicated his last years since the diagnosis he had of ELA to show from his foundation the importance of investing in research precisely for what the Gallego Nationalist Block brings us here. Neurodegenerative diseases, such as ALS, multiple sclerosis, Alzheimer's, Parkinson's and so many others, are slowing down the abilities of those suffering from them more or less. Gradually they are making the patient an increasingly dependent person until in the end he needs someone at his side almost all the time. I do not find anything new when I say that the slowness of the administration processes often makes help for these people late, even when the patient has already passed away. The times of administration are not the times of biology, especially of a harmful and cruel biology such as this. The Administration cannot be a permanent wall and a constant ballast. Administrative processes must be speeded up, because diseases are continuing and people reach the end of their lives without access to disability, the help they need and those they are entitled to, which would help to alleviate their situation and that of their families. That is why we in the Citizens' Parliamentary Group have always advocated the development of policies that are more active and more adapted to the reality of this type of disease. We need an approach aimed at stimulating their activity over the longest possible time, and that requires more investment, but above all, that we get started as soon as possible in order to have better planning. So, as it could not be otherwise, we will support this initiative to recognize the 33% disability of patients with this type of disease. These diseases are cruel by definition, cruel with the patient and cruel with his family and his nearest environment. We must therefore use all possible resources to make them feel that all Spanish society is at their side, so that they do not feel alone in their pain and in the face of a future that, unfortunately, and as long as science does not remedy it, will be worse. Therefore, in Citizens we want to go beyond what this initiative proposes. We registered a very ambitious initiative a month ago that promotes automatic recognition, to which other spokespersons, with arguments that I believe are a little pilgrim, oppose. We ask you to change or reconsider this position. The facts are the facts, the fate of these diseases is clear what it is. I think we need to be more flexible. Prevention and early detection, moreover, must be a pillar in our health policies, and not only because every euro invested in prevention saves between 4 and 7 - we are not talking about spending per se; they are expenditure that they then save, because they often stop the effects of these diseases - but because this investment would allow us to achieve the well-being of patients first, thanks to early diagnoses. It is time to update the Neurodegenerative Disease Strategy, adapting it to new scientific advances. Science is moving faster and faster, but we continue with a 19th-century bureaucracy on many issues. I do not want to finish this intervention - today I have been reading your tweets; it communicates on Twitter most of the time - without remembering Jordi Sabate, whom I read carefully. Every day he earns a day of life, with courage, love and humor - I remember two days ago I laughed alone at home reading some of his last tweets -. In short, let anyone who is diagnosed - who can be anyone, by the way - of such a disease know...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-23-CD210223.u117	Your Honor, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-23-CD210223.u118	... that the whole Spanish society - it has ended, president - is with it and that we will put all possible means for its situation to be as bad as possible. We will support the initiative. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-23-CD210223.u119	Thank you very much, Mr. Díaz. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Eritja Ciuro has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-23-CD210223.u120	Thank you very much, President. Very briefly. It is clear that the proposal put forward by the BNG seeks to advance the achievement of social rights and the protection of the most vulnerable. Today we are talking about chronic patients with neurodegenerative diseases, such as Alzheimer's, Parkinson's, Huntington's disease, multiple sclerosis, ALS, but also others that we do not always have so much in mind, such as spinal ataxia, spinal muscle atrophy or prionic diseases, for example. We have a broad framework for these diseases. All of them have in common a progressive affectation in neurons, which, unfortunately, has irreversible effects, and this is important. To date, in order to obtain the recognition of disability and the social benefits associated with it, persons suffering from such diseases must undergo periodic examinations of certain barems and protocols that are not suitable, as has been said, to really assess the degree of disability. However, due to the unstoppable nature of neurodegenerative diseases, it is already known beforehand that the evolution will be negative and, consequently, the application of the assessment always comes late and bad; when it comes, the disease has advanced. It is necessary to update the barems and protocols, but the time is running out for those sick and their families. The emergence of such diseases has, of course, social and labour consequences, both in the affected person and in their environment, with the sex or gender involved, even. This raw reality is not new, it has always existed; and finding ways to improve it, if it is not yet possible in the medical, at least, in the social field has always been important. But now, in the face of the social and economic crisis, it is not only important, but it is urgent and irreplaceable. Ladies and gentlemen, from the Republican Group we applaud the initiative of the Gallego Nationalist Block, announce our vote in favour of the proposal and urge the Government to move forward as requested. To conclude, I want to remember an obviousness. Chronic diseases and their impact on people cannot be summed up in terms of medical science alone; they do not have only an individual impact on the person; they cannot analyze the real consequences of the disease in isolation from their environment or by taking away the view of their social, economic and labour conditions. People's sufferings are determined by their medical pathologies, obviously, but also by many other circumstances: by their neighborhood, by their home, by their social class, by many elements. And this is precisely where we can move forward, this is where we can really move forward and improve if we follow the path marked by the initiative that is being debated today. That chronic disease is not a reason for social discrimination is really what is being asked. One of the lessons of this health crisis, which is now becoming an economic and social crisis, is that the pillars of the welfare state need urgently to be strengthened in order to ensure minimum social coverage for the most vulnerable sectors. This is important. This is therefore a matter of urgent need. We live in times of economic and social setbacks, and it is the duty of all to try not to become also in times of receding rights. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-23-CD210223.u121	Thank you very much, Mr. Eritja. Mr Rego, do you accept any of the amendments tabled?
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-23-CD210223.u122	Yes, the People's Party.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-23-CD210223.u123	All right, thank you very much. The vote will take place on the basis of the amendments.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-23-CD210223.u124	We then proceed to discuss the motion resulting from an urgent inquiry by the People's Parliamentary Group into the Congress, so that the Government can clarify its position on the request to cancel the public debt maintained by the European Central Bank, which has requested the two main parties, PSOE and United Podemos, to support it. For the author group of the initiative and for the defence of the motion, Mr Paniagua Núñez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-23-CD210223.u125	Thank you, President. We present this motion as a result of urgent questioning to the Government, to clarify its position on the request to cancel the public debt maintained by the European Central Bank. And since the Government has not spoken, the Vice-President did not answer the question, increasing doubts and further eroding the credibility and confidence in our country, today we ask the parties of the Government and the rest to stand with this motion. The PSOE is facing an identity crisis, or voting against its president or voting against the E of its acronyms, against Spain. How can we depend on the massive purchases of public debt by the European Central Bank to avoid a financial and debt crisis and, at the same time, to call for the cancellation of the public debt that the European Central Bank is buying us? This debt increase coincides almost exactly with the volume of Spanish public debt that the ECB purchased in 2020, 120 billion. In other words, the ECB purchased virtually all of our country's net debt issuance, which allowed us to maintain interest rates and risk premium at the current low levels. This circumstance, coupled with the fact that in 2021 the Treasury estimates a net debt issue of another 100 billion, which will also have to be bought mostly by the ECB, makes not only incomprehensible, but totally counterproductive, the adherence to the manifesto 'Cancel the public debt maintained by the ECB so that our destiny will be back in our hands', by the Secretary of State of the Government of Spain and economic head of the United Nations We can, and by the President of the Socialist Party, the main party supporting the Government. This request is illegal, irresponsible, harmful, contrary to the Treaties - the Union is based on a trust pact, it is absolutely essential in the European Union - and it would also damage confidence in the rest of the euro's partners. We have closed 2020 with a public debt of 1.311 billion - equivalent to 117.1% of GDP -, 121.7 billion and 21.6 points of GDP more than in December 2019, the highest level of debt for 118 years, and the European Commission estimates that we will reach 141% by 2031. I'll give you a moment to be told, it's hard, the truth. We have another doubt. What do we owe each other for? We understand that there is a pandemic and that we must be in debt, if we are to return it, of course, if not, we should not ask for it. We have to be in debt, but if we do not have a clear objective, if we do not be in debt to generate enough economic activity so that in the coming years tax revenues will grow and be able to repay the debt, the only thing that will generate us will be cuts, risks and problems. An example of our recent history: 2009 Socialist Government, Plan E, 120 billion debt increase, without targets. Consequence: in less than two years the biggest cuts in democracy, freezing pensions with a CPI of about 3%, cuts in civil servants' salaries, aid to the third sector, etc., as well as a certain risk of rescue by the European Union. Another recent example: Italy. They put Mr Draghi, who was out of politics, like several ministers, at the head of the Government to recover the country, to manage the exit from this crisis and the recovery funds. Here, we, not even the management of the recovery funds, leave it in the hands of professionals, but of Mr Redondo, a strategist of the Government and Mr Sánchez. Draghi's proposal was voted in Congress with 535 votes in favour and 56 against; in the Senate, with 262 votes in favour and 40 against. He speaks of a government in the country, of strengthening the indispensable and strategic relationship with France and Germany, of doing what is necessary to reform Italy and of taking advantage of the opportunity provided by the recovery funds to convert the third European economy, of the fact that the recovery plan will be presented on a sound financial basis and the projects will be based on the idea of good debt, that is, structural investments for the future. Its plan aims to lower fiscal pressure, remove administrative obstacles, strengthen legal certainty to attract investors' interest and reduce unnecessary spending. Although it wants to boost the economy through public resources, it has insisted on the need to ensure the sustainability of Italian accounts in order not to drown future generations. He said that every current waste is an injustice we commit with future generations, a kidnapping of their rights; just like our president's Sunday sermons. Some newspaper has spearheaded its news: 'Mario Draghi orients Italy towards the head of Europe'. And Spain? Well, on the tail, and the forecast is that we'll be there a few more years. Do not tell us, as Mrs Calviño has said, that next year we will grow more than anyone else in Europe; it is not growth, please, it is recovery from the historic fall in GDP in 2020. The difference between Italy and Spain is that Italy has an extraordinary Government for an extraordinary moment and Spain has a French Government to address a historic crisis. Here we do not even comply with the laws, such as the Organic Law on Budgetary Stability and Financial Sustainability, I remind you again; it has been more than three months and we still do not have the medium-term rebalancing plan required by the law. Please, what are you waiting for? I see no other way that the European Union will end up demanding those measures that this government is not able to put forward. Making a simile that I heard the other day and made me funny: seen what I saw, here in Spain we will have to wait for our mother to teach us the shoe or the chanclet, depending on the area where we live, or even end up throwing it at us, and that hurts, I assure you. And already, with permission, I send a kiss to my mother, extended to all those loved ones whom we have not been able to accompany during this pandemic. [[Applauds]] Draghi concluded with an appeal to unity, a sincere appeal, not like those made by this Government. He said, 'Today unity is not an option, it is a duty.' The importance and risks of the level of debt must force an agreement of all. Our Government despises the agreements, despite their importance to our future. For you the agreement is to say yes to all that you propose to us and if not, it is that we are looking for chryspation. If we ask them what measures they are going to take in Italy, they tell us that we are chryspersing; the solution of Italy is chryspersing in Spain. Even with the management of the recovery and resilience funds they will do politics and the misfortune is that the Spanish will pay for this unworthy behavior. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-23-CD210223.u126	Thank you, Mr. Paniagua. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Mazón Ramos has the floor on behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-23-CD210223.u127	Good afternoon. Thank you very much. We are going to vote no to this motion of the People's Party, but this does not mean that we agree with the manifesto signed last February 5 by senior PSOE and Podemos officials, led by economists like Piketty. From a political point of view, it seems to us to be political nonsense to call for the debt of the countries of the European Union to be repaid to the European Central Bank. We are going to vote that not for two fundamental reasons. The first is of a technical-legal nature. It does not seem logical to ask the Government to disallow an accession that has not taken place. The Government is a collegiate body made up of the President and his ministers, and none of whom I know has adhered to that manifesto. A Secretary of State is not a member of the Government, much less a representative if he is not even in an economic ministry. The second is because last week, when you questioned Minister Calviño, the position of the Government became clear, which considered this issue to be alien to any Government initiative and of course none of its priorities. But since Mrs Calviño is very diplomatic she didn't say what can be read between lines when someone says she won't waste a minute of her time on a matter. In addition, it strongly affirmed the Government's commitment to budgetary stability and coordination with the rest of the Member States of the European Union on monetary and economic policy. The two aspects of the People's Party motion are therefore answered. As far as the substance of the matter is concerned, without entering into any other legal and strictly economic issues that have already been analysed by people of recognised creditworthiness, and apart from very respectable approaches and views that are valid for debate, there is an overwhelming majority that considers this manifesto to be very negative. That is why I said from the outset that it seems to me to be a political nonsense, because after the hard political dispute with the allocation of the €75 billion of European funds to alleviate the consequences of the COVID, that in the end an agreement has been reached in extremis where half of these funds are aid from the European Union at a deep loss, which have the same effect as a square one, and the other half are debt from the European Central Bank itself, to put this forward now and in addition to handling much larger quantities is a veritable waste which in no way contributes to strengthening the European Union that we are both demanding, but rather to the contrary. What seems quite obvious is that if situations like this happen, they remind the machines of making hyperinflationary notes that did not stop working - it is already known that the consequences ended up being dramatic precisely for the most disadvantaged, as the Argentines know very well - or the withdrawals of the International Monetary Fund of the 1970s that then gave rise to the famous lost decade of the 1980s. I believe that the government team in this case is clear on these ideas and therefore the motion is meaningless. What is needed and what is being done is for measures to be taken that give priority to solidarity. This is true for Europe and for Spain and, although it is very easy to say it because we all agree, the question is how much they are willing to give those who have more to those who have less. This requires clear rules that are consensual and realistic, as consensual and as realistic as possible, because sometimes the remedy is worse than the disease. We in the Regionalist Party have always been in favour of gradual changes, which are the most stable and lasting, and not of abrupt changes, and that the data used be transparent. That is why last week we asked the Minister of Finance to give us the data used for the allocation of European funds among the autonomous communities and I have to say that yesterday she sent me the data from Cantabria, with which I thank them and now we can discuss them with knowledge. The credibility of the Government depends on all these things and also depends on their continuity, because citizens quickly realize when a Government is just and supportive and when not, of course, depending on the consequences of its actions, whether situations worsen or improve. We believe in a balanced Europe, in a balanced Spain, because this is the best guarantee for any crisis. In addition, this is what the Cantabria Regionalist Party in Cantabria has been trying to do, where it has been ruling for the past twenty-five years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-23-CD210223.u128	Thank you very much, Mr. Mazón. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Matute García de Jalón has the floor for the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-23-CD210223.u129	Thank you very much, Madam President. I start with the clearest of things, and we are going to vote against this initiative. In the end, the initiative raises two very specific questions, beyond the justification given in this rostrum, which is to disallow two people, in particular by adhering to a manifesto which proposes to cancel the public debt maintained by the European Central Bank and, in passing, to ratify the commitment to the payment of that debt. It is no more than that that which the motion raises and on both issues we disagree. We disagree that no one should be denied permission to sign a manifesto. It seems to us that it is one more thread of this fashion that the Spanish state uses to cut and attack freedom of expression. In any case, we also do not believe that accepting debt payments, at least as the initiative proposes, is nothing other than that of becoming already and for many decades lackeys of an economic model that excludes and precariouss us all and all, and fundamentally the most impoverished sectors. He pointed out in the justification - he has done it here today without mentioning the historical milestone, but yes the temporary thread - that the Spanish public debt is comparable to that which was held one hundred and eighteen years ago, due to the loss of Cuba. I know that this is also a matter present in the hearts of some, even though time has passed. In the heart of some overseas colonies remain a great loss. Probably, you can no longer say that more was lost was lost in Cuba, you will have to say that you have lost the same thing as now or that we lose the same thing as in Cuba. In any case, this serves me to point out evidence, evidence that I recommend you to read at some point, even if only to rearm ideologically in your own positions. It is the eighteenth Brumario by Luis Bonaparte, by Karl Marx. He said that history is repeated twice: the first as a tragedy and the second as a farce. If one hundred and twenty years ago it was a tragedy to have that level of public debt for what it had of unemployment, misery and famine for the society of the whole Spanish State - it does not seem to me so tragic that the Cubans achieved their independence -, of course now it is a farce that we must consider continuing to maintain the foundations of a social, economic and financial model that only makes precarious and devalue the role of the States for the benefit of the large multinational entities or corporations, which are not subject to any kind of public control beyond that of their own boards of directors. Because, in the end, it's about answering two questions: Is debt forgiveness to banks okay and asking a withdrawal to states wrong? Because that's what they're proposing. It's their initiative. I didn't hear them say that canceling the debt to the banks was wrong, but they did it with great pleasure, to the point that they did get an effective take-off, because they didn't have to return the money they took. However, here they point out that the State, which will ultimately be all of us - I say, even if we wanted to be another State, we remain all of us - we have to pay religiously. And surely they grab the arguments of two reference persons in the European Central Bank, the President and the Vice-President. They surely take Christine Lagarde's arguments, yes, the same one that said - before the pandemic, I will not blame her for that - that the older people live too much and that that probably makes the system unsustainable, the same one that criticizes that there is an excessive public spending, but silences that during the time that she was in charge in France of this issue the only thing she did was to uncontrol public spending. The other reference person, the other guru, the other illuminating beacon of these positions turns out to be Luis de Guindos, the vice president of the European Central Bank. For those who do not remember it or do not want to remember it, one of the architects of Lehman Brothers' bankruptcy, one of the engineers of that maneuver or of that turn that tended more along the paths of alleged than of legality, is who comes today to tell us that what this manifesto poses is illegal. I end up with two questions. Why did the debt go up? That's the question we'd all have to ask ourselves. The answer is quite simple, because someone decided that States had to be decapitalized to give that part of the business to private banks, because it prevented sovereign central banks in States from issuing public debt as they had been doing before the 1980s so that that part of the market would also be left to private banks, because that is where they have taken the huge profits that they still treasure today. And the second and final question, tell me a single crisis of the dimension of this one that has been solved without a lift. Neither World War I nor World War II nor this will be. And his position is only to deny the evidence and to deny history.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-23-CD210223.u130	Thank you very much, Mr. Matute. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-23-CD210223.u131	Thank you, President. Mr Paniagua, today we are not discussing the substance of the manifesto or the high debt or how that debt should be restructured. What we're talking about is a motion with only two points. On the one hand, to censor those who asked to condemn it and, on the other, to commit the Government to the payment of the debt. We are going to vote against, first of all, for the easy use of a holder: to say that PSOE and Podemos do not want to pay the public debt, and all this because two people belonging to that area have joined, have signed a document in their personal capacity, as many economists from other countries have done. Because without entering into whether or not this debate is appropriate at the moment and without setting our position on that manifesto, we do not believe that two people can be censored simply by agreeing with that manifesto and expressing economic ideas which are trying to open up a simple debate - which, on the other hand, has taken place in other countries - about public debt and restructuring in the eurozone. Is putting a debate on the table cause for scandal? We don't think so. It is not the Government that has signed any manifesto, nor has the Government expressed as such that it is not going to pay the debt. To assert and to make believe this to the citizenry I believe it is to distort the facts. What you, gentlemen of the PP, are doing is raising an economic debate as a cause for alarm for citizens and we believe that this is a mistake because the debate of any economic, legal, social or other proposal, at least, should be a public responsibility even for economists, jurists or any government. To put a debate on the table should not be a cause for scandal or dispute, especially when the proposal raises the existence of a problem, excessive debt, which, forgive me, is not something new. To issue and go to debt has been a decision of all Governments at times of crisis, also in 2008, and I also remind them that when the recovery came, it was not addressed either. They called on the rest of the administrations to reduce the debt, but the fact is that the State has been the major failure to comply with this reduction because at the end of each mandate it has been increasing. The reality is that we are going to live with a high debt for a long time, a debt that is now unthinkable to be reduced because it is necessary for the social protection that needs to be covered right now by the pandemic. We are not going to get into the bottom of the manifesto because we are not discussing that issue. However, and using the same words as Mrs Lagarde, contrary to that manifesto, if the energy spent on requesting the cancellation of the debt by the European Central Bank were to be devoted to a debate on the use of this debt, would be much more useful. Well, gentlemen of the PP, apply this as well. Do not spend energy on useless, vaccine motions, which involve only a waste of time, rather than discussing constructive proposals that lead to better life for citizens, or at least to alleviate the consequences of the pandemic. You in the explanatory statement accuse the Government of increasing debt and further eroding credibility and confidence in the country. That's what they say. The truth is that this is far from reality, because it is you with these kinds of motions who are increasing these doubts and is credible. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-23-CD210223.u132	Thank you very much, Mrs. Sagastizabal. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Muñoz Vidal has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-23-CD210223.u133	Thank you, President. Good night now, ladies and gentlemen. Unfortunately, I have little time to address such an exciting issue in just five minutes; it is an exciting issue because no politician in his or her right mind, who is part of the government parties of a country, of a serious country, would ever have been able to ask the European Central Bank for debt forgiveness. I'm getting to the point. The public debt in Spain has closed 2020 by 1.3 billion euros. I translate, the debt in Spain has closed 2020 by 1 billion 311 billion euros, that is, 122,500 million euros more than the close of 2019. In other words, an increase in debt equivalent to more than twice the entire economy of Bulgaria or Croatia. The pandemic has caused a historical imbalance in our accounts, it is true, and both Spain and the countries of our environment have been forced to do and respond with all the fiscal arsenal available, issuing amounts of debt never seen in a year. That's true too. However, ladies and gentlemen, the crisis must not be used as an excuse; we cannot worry about what, sooner or later - remember - will be our country's biggest problem: the debt problem; debt that is already around 120 % and will continue to grow exponentially as the crisis widens. Ladies and gentlemen, debt is a burden on any country; debt is a burden on our ability to invest, generate growth and maintain our welfare state. It is therefore urgent and necessary that we implement the necessary reforms that will make our economic potential grow, that the performance of productivity improves, that our structural imbalances are reduced and that our finances are under control. I know this is a very complicated time, I am aware, we are aware in my parliamentary group, but it is not impossible. In fact, a leader has already come out to the lecture whose name has already come out here tonight in this rostrum; he is the leader of a country whose debt situation is even worse than that of Spain. This leader says he's going to review the entire tax system to lower taxes; he says he's not going to implement the Google rate or the Tobin rate to cover holes; he says he's going to remove barriers to investments; he's going to reform the Administration to increase the productivity of officials; his priority is to ensure legal certainty; and his investment plan will have a single purpose, a clear purpose that is to give certainty to investors. It's a shame that leader's in Italy. Because while Mr Draghi proposes these measures you allow yourself the luxury of questioning our country's seriousness and commitment to the debt holders and the credibility of the European Central Bank in calling for debt forgiveness. It's absolutely crazy, it's irresponsible, gentlemen of the government. You know perfectly well that the aid must be returned, which, moreover, is conditioned and, if we fail to comply, Brussels can activate the so-called emergency brake. But what example do we want to set? Responsibility, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, responsibility. The solution is not to call for debt forgiveness; the solution is to reform, reform and reform. And you know, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, that for these profound reforms that our country needs here they have the hand, the useful hand, the responsible hand, the solvent hand of Citizens from the beginning of their government. A match up to what the Spaniards deserve, a match that votes the right thing for the Spaniards and not the one that gives more votes. I shall now finish, Madam President, with the words of Mr Draghi, who have also been mentioned here, but we must not forget them: 'Debt is a burden and from responsibility we should govern in the hope that today's young people when they take our place - possibly some of them are in a few years' time in this House - will thank us for our work and will not be able to reproach us for our selfishness. Because every waste and every post-reform is an injustice that we commit with future generations.' Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-23-CD210223.u134	Thank you very much, Mrs. Muñoz. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] The Plural Parliamentary Group has the floor, first of all, Mr Rego Candamil.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-23-CD210223.u135	Thank you, Madam President. We can agree that the public debt levels of the Spanish State are high and worrying, especially when the stability rules are postponed, but not repealed. So in 2022 or 2023 the neoliberal orthodoxy of Brussels will reactivate the fiscal rules and you, the People's Party, the government, will return to adjustments to bring the deficit back on track and that, if we don't fix it, will mean further cuts. But we will never agree on the criminalization of going to public debt when society needs it, nor on the criminalization of the concept of withdrawals, because withdrawals are not a Bolshevik invention, they are another instrument of the liberal economy that is applied in the general deformity commercial sphere. Therefore, requesting cancellation of the debt is absolutely lawful. That is, this issue highlights the key issue of sovereignty whether or not it has the capacity to decide. If you do not claim it for the Spanish State, we do claim it for Galicia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-23-CD210223.u136	Thank you, Mr. Rego. Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor for the same parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-23-CD210223.u137	Thank you very much, President. I think Mr Rego or Mr Matute have perfectly defined it. The banks do, the states don't. We are also discussing a manifesto. Look, in 2016 I wrote this: When Zaplana entered the Valencian government we had 6.5% of debt in relation to our GDP, when the PP - who knows how to govern so well - we were in 38. They multiplied it by 14, and so we continued, largely because of the PP, but not all. This debt is absolutely repayable. The Valencians and the Valencians will never be able to pay for it. In fact, we have already committed 25% of our budget, and it is still growing. Therefore, it is not unreasonable to ask for the cancellation of the Valencian debt to the State and dedicate those 5 billion that we dedicate to paying that illegitimate debt so that 5 million Valencians can live a little better. This can also apply to debt, the Spanish State and the European Central Bank. I think they could keep their motion and work seriously for people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-23-CD210223.u138	Thank you very much, Mr. Baldoví. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Finally, Mr Bel Accensi has the floor for the same parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-23-CD210223.u139	Thank you, President. Mr Proposers, we are going to vote no to your motion as a result of questioning for two reasons, for the two reasons that you are asking me to agree with this House. For the first reason: they ask to disallow the subscription of a manifesto. Do you honestly believe that this Congress has to disallow two natural persons who sign a manifesto with a hundred economists? By the way, forty-eight Frenchmen, twenty-two Spanishmen, seventeen Italians, and only three Germans, three Irishmen and one Swedishman, if that's any use. But do you think this has to be disallowed? Honestly, I think it's very, very, very unserious. Second: to ratify the Government's commitment to debt payment. Are you serious? Hey, I'm not much of a football fan, but do you know they say that when they ratify a coach, they dismiss him the next week? [[Laughter]] Well, that's what you should think. But don't you believe in the rule of law? Do they believe or do they not believe in the rule of law? Do you believe in the rule of law? Do you want to tell me what Article 135.3 of the Constitution says that you and you have expressly reformed a summer of previous years? What are you saying? Article 135 of the Constitution states this. Do you have to ratify what Article 135 of the Constitution says? Do you have to ratify what the Organic Law on Budgetary Stability says? As for the manifesto, I have many reasons to disagree, and I would like to discuss it one day, but not with two and a half minutes, and I hope to do so, because today, equalising the fiscal and monetary policy of the European Union as if it were any other independent State, is not realistic. Now, what you are asking for today, honestly, is neither realistic nor, above all, serious. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-23-CD210223.u140	Thank you very much, Mr. Bel. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Capdevila i Esteve has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-23-CD210223.u141	Thank you very much, President. Good night. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. Against, Mr. Paniagua, you won't be surprised. The PP, in perfect harmony with its perpetual policy of confrontation, nevertheless brings an interesting debate to this House, a debate that arises from the repeated manifesto. We cannot escape the relevance of the debate and the controversy that has arisen. It was not long before, for example - as has been said - the vice-president of the European Central Bank, Don Luis de Guindos, described this proposal as irrational and harmful; few stimuli like this for Esquerra to devote attention to the proposal. A separate mention deserves that we also do not like the title of the manifesto. What do you mean,'so that our destiny will again be in our hands'? If there is destiny, there are those who consider that there is Providence. If there is a destiny, it is inexorable and, by definition, it is not in the hands of anyone; even more so if in that hypothesis, fate, as the Greek classics explain, is actually the origin. In the face of the spectre of a persistent pandemic no one - no one or 'no one' - knows when the situation will return to normal. In this context, the imperative lies elsewhere, amplifying the health response, continuing to protect people's incomes, preventing the most vulnerable from running out of housing, protecting businesses and self-employed workers. In the current context of low interest rates, and thanks to the action of the ECB, governments can do so without worrying about their borrowing conditions. The first risk for many countries, Mr Paniagua, is not that this crisis leaves us too much in debt, but that it leaves us in an anaemic, industrial and social situation. If today the Kingdom of Spain has a public debt problem, as many times throughout its history, in the most recent one it is due to the volume that left the PP in inheritance. That's their origin. And, curiously, as a result of an express change in the Constitution, that Constitution that we gave among all, in quotes, which sometimes seems written in stone and others in pencil to be able to erase it on a summer night, the sacrosanct principle of austerity in theory signed to reduce the debt, what he did was, Mr Paniagua, increase it, multiply it. And it multiplied in the Spanish state and where the same recipes were applied, a recipe of extreme austerity that no one now defends, but which, at the time, was said to be expansive. Expansive austerity. Do you remember? Because you, gentlemen of the PP, well asked, in fact your greatest sin was the same that you want to commit today, to accept on foot together what the European Union dictates to us as if it were infallible and free of interests. The case is that you share the same interests, because austerity had some beneficiaries, the rescued bank, the same one that benefits from the management of public debt. Because, as you know, the ECB does not buy public debt from the states, it accepts it as collateral from the banks, without any risk banks run either in buying or selling. Even if it is with a title that we do not like, the proposal to cancel the debt is telling us that the monetary policy being pursued is neither the only nor the best possible. And as an example you have the policy that the United States or the United Kingdom are doing where their central banks are actually bringing money directly into the pockets of those who need it, that is a whatever it takes. Since the start of the Squerra pandemic, we have been advocating the need for direct cheques from the ECB for those who have run out of income. Rather than cancelling the debt, we argue that there would not be, that it would not have been increased by the pandemic, and that we would not learn to compensate those we demand to close the business with credits, because with this system the closure will not be temporary, but definitive, and after that the debt will have to be cancelled because there will be no one to pay it. And of all that goes the proposal that you challenge, of which is the best monetary policy today, also taking into account what can happen tomorrow, a morning where the abounding debt today can deepen and prolong the crisis, as much as it deepened and extended the previous austerity for the most disadvantaged. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-23-CD210223.u142	Thank you, Mr. Capdevila. Mr Guijarro García has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communo.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-23-CD210223.u143	Thank you, President. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Paniagua, the first thing I want to move to you is that you have to have a quill - you have to have a quill - to ask last week in plenary for the forgiveness of the autonomous debts - I don't know if you remember - and during that same and the next plenary, that is, today, to bring to debate an inquiry-motion that tears the clothes and asks the government for explanations because a group of economists, academics and politicians from the left, has raised through a public manifesto a debate on the possibility that the Central Bank may condone some of the debts. There's got to be a quilt. The surprising thing about this new haraca is that we still don't know what alternatives the right is to face a period of exception like this one. I understand that you agree with the fiscal stimulus programme that the Government has put in place, Mr Paniagua, and if you are not, it seems that it is because it is not ambitious for you. That is, you agree with increasing public spending to deal with the emergency, and you also claim a widespread tax reduction. It should be deduced, therefore, that it seems to you little, that you are willing to assume greater volumes of public debt, which is what this approach necessarily leads to, but not. Moreover, you get your hair mixed up in front of the more than 9 points that the debt of all the administrations has grown since February last year. However, at the same time, you are calling to heaven for a political debate to be opened on the future management of this debt. Let's see, ladies and gentlemen of the PP, you cannot be at Mass asking for resources to be allocated to alleviate the crisis and at the same time respite against these resources. Don't you want debt? All right, but then have the courage to tell us that the welfare state is a chimera and that it must be dismantled. Unfortunately, we can only conjecture what they propose, because so far, apart from the contradictions that he had previously denounced, we have not yet heard a single realistic approach to how to face the size challenge to the State. Therefore, since there is not yet a counter-proposal on your part, allow me to focus on the content of the manifesto that has generated such an aggressive reaction in your ranks, because perhaps, simply, you have not understood it. Firstly, the manifest signed by these economists values the economic envelope of EUR 300 billion of the European rescue plan as an advance, but indicates that it may not be enough to ensure the ecological transition. It refers to the European Parliament's initial request for a rescue of at least two billion, if we recall, and also reminds us that the European Court of Auditors already indicated in 2018, that is, before the crisis, a minimum need of about EUR 300 billion of additional investment per year to finance the green transition in Europe. You don't need to remind them that the rescue plan in the United States you are currently contemplating would amount to a total disbursement of about $2.3 trillion. Secondly, the manifesto alludes to other historical moments, in which only a political solution - debt forgiveness - managed to get certain States out of the economic trap of unsustainable debt. The London Pact of 1953, which resulted in the forgiveness of more than 62% of Germany's debt, was explicitly mentioned, but could also have mentioned the debt write-offs which proliferated throughout Europe during the 1930s, and which, in some cases, as in France, amounted to up to 50% of debt write-offs. Nor does it enter the long sequence of restructurings, partial take-offs, bond exchanges, etc., which lasted throughout the 1980s and 1990s throughout Latin America. Come on, that was not the first or last time that political solutions were resorted to in these cases. Therefore, the text of the manifesto that today brings the PP to debate does nothing but draw attention to the need to put forward again great political agreements capable of overcoming economic orthodoxy. Let us remember that this same orthodoxy in its day also questioned the legality of the restructuring of Greek debt or the massive purchase of public debt from France. However, today it is one of the Central Bank's star programmes, with more than 3.3 billion euros spent so far. On the other hand, it should also be remembered that central banks as unsuspecting as the Bank of Japan, the Bank of England or the Fed itself, the Federal Reserve, today reserve the right to acquire sovereign debt from their countries in the primary market, which is not the same, but it is beginning to look very much like the issuance of perpetual zero or marginal interest rates. Finally, the manifesto aims to take further steps to reform the debt and deficit criteria. In other words, it outlines a complex economic-financial panorama, in which context it is possible to understand some of these proposed measures, the same ones that have been launched not for their immediate implementation, but to encourage their study and discussion. In short, ladies and gentlemen, you would do well to work out your own alternatives and get into the substantive debates instead of hyperventilating every time a proposal arises from the left. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-23-CD210223.u144	Thank you very much, Mr. Guijarro. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Manso Olivar has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-23-CD210223.u145	Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. As you know, we are discussing the criticism made by the People's Party of the accession of two important members of the government coalition - some of them with important public responsibilities - to the manifesto 'Cancellation of the public debt maintained by the ECB so that our destiny will be back in our hands'. The title is, at least, cursi. It is rather cursive, typical course of the 'politicians' of which we begin to be tired many citizens and many of those who are in this House, at least those of VOX. They are asking for debt forgiveness in the hands of the ECB and they are asking it, of course, because the alternative they would have for this over-inflation crisis would be hyperinflation. In fact, this is what Mr de Bildu proposed to us when he complained that we had abandoned the monetisation of the deficit, as the central banks had done before. This is the growth of public debt from 2005 to 2008. [[Show a chart]] Look what you've done. Mr de Bildu, even if you blew your head off, if we had monetised it, it would have meant, because it is a cumulative annual growth of 10.6% of the public debt, an inflation of approximately 11% cumulative annual, that is to say, multiplying prices in these twelve years by 2.5. [[Applauds]] Anyway, there's something real and there's something positive. It says the title'so that our destiny is back in our hands', because they begin to recognize what we have already told them in the budget debate. You are leading Spain to slavery through debt. That's what's going on. [[Applauds]] The manifesto logically requires the Government to make a strong public demonstration of its disapproval and a strong commitment, no matter what the Constitution says, because it has had an impact on the markets. First, the manifesto is an irresponsibility, as Citizens have said, but, above all, this year is inappropriate. It is a year when we have to issue 275 billion debt, 175 billion for maturity and 100,000 for the new public debt. It's been a real irresponsibility. You believed that this had no consequences, but this, my lords, has had consequences; and I will explain to you the consequences that it has had, first in the markets, and then in the public finances. Look at you, the Spanish 10-year public debt bond, which is the reference bond, quoted on 15 December with a negative return of less than 0,01 %. On 5 February, when this manifest was signed, it contributed more than 0,13 %. This morning it was worth more than 0,38 %. This is a 25-point climb. When these 25 basis points are transferred to the debt structure, they will amount to an additional 3.5 billion interest and more public spending. Someone will tell me: You forget that you have also raised the German bonus. Perfect, I'll admit it. The German bonus has risen in the last twenty days 15 basis points, 10 less than us. I left it at 10 basic points: €1.3 billion is the result in the public accounts of the demonstrations that have been made. It was already noted at last week's auction. Last week's ten-year bond auction was 2.80 per cent. We already warned you at your time that the black swan could reach the rise of guys, and this you begin to see is precisely the peak of the swan. In any case, I cannot let go of some of the lies that have been said in this House. Look, you can't say that banks do and states don't, because the banks weren't forgiven anything. The aid was for savings banks, which had a bad governance system because of the autonomous regulation, which took control. [[applause]] They weren't forgiven anything. What was done was to lend them money, which in many cases has been returned, and take shares, which are still pending sale. That is exactly what the Government now proposes to do in SEPI for businesses in crisis. So, we don't see any problems. You, Mr Baldoví and some others, what you are discussing is not the economic model, you are discussing your political model, in which you act with total irresponsibility. They can spend or spend more, as a way to create clientele among the electorate, and now, as they want to continue with that model before undertaking the necessary adjustments that the economy needs, what they propose is that they condone public debt.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-23-CD210223.u146	It has to end.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-23-CD210223.u147	Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause by the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, on the ground]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-23-CD210223.u148	Thank you so much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, Mr Hurtado Zurera has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-23-CD210223.u149	Good night. Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, a pathetic inquiry. It is summarized in a question about an academic manifesto and in a very strong answer from Mrs Calviño. We are not in sterile debates. We have reason to vote against this motion, but I will give you even more reason, because the motion cannot be more pathetic. First of all, you are asking the Government to be disqualified. Do you know what a rule of law is? Do you know what the power division is? Do you know that we have competences and are not those to disallow a government? [[Rumors]] We may reprimand a member of the government or we may table a motion of censure, as we did, to remove a corrupt and sentenced party from the government, but how can you disallow it? [[applause.-Protests]] Secondly, ladies and gentlemen, how dare you question whether the Kingdom of Spain pays its financial debt religiously? How dare you? He has paid it before, pays it now and will pay it later, among other reasons because it is marked by article 135 of the Constitution. How does it occur to you to question it in a motion? You have no sense of state. You've lost your way completely. You are totally obsessed with eroding the government... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-23-CD210223.u150	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-23-CD210223.u151	...whatever it takes. As Mr Montoro said: let Spain sink, that then we will save her. That's still his theory. And I'm going to tell the one who made the call that he blatantly lied saying that Spain is the last in everything, obviating what the forecasts of the European Commission itself say: that in the year 2021 the highest growth of the countries of the European Union will be that of Spain and, probably, in future years. Why are you guys being able to lie so blatantly about doing harm? They not only harm the Government, they also harm the country. And then, saying there's a reprimand, a reputational crisis. Look, the indicators are very clear about reputation and trust. [[shows a graph]] [[A Member of Parliament: It's the other way around]] No, it's fine; what happens is that you don't know what it is. [[Rumors.-Applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-23-CD210223.u152	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-23-CD210223.u153	I'll comment on it. This is the risk premium. Where is financial stability?, here, when the People's Party ruled, with 620 basic points, or here, with 59 basic points? Another indicator, this, is the financial cost. [[Show another chart]] Where is stability?, here, when it was paid about 5%, or here, when it is actually at an average rate of 1.8% and emissions do not reach 0.2%? Where's the stability, ladies? How are you capable of undermining the prestige of this country? I will tell you something more, you really, when you want to erode the Spanish government, hurting the Spanish brand and the country, are also deteriorating what the policies of the European Union are. Because you have one thing to know: we have a monetary policy marked by the autonomous European Central Bank, which is obviously making much easier what the fiscal policy that remains in the countries is doing; and the European Commission itself has eliminated the Corsicans, the fiscal path, because we know that now is the time to invest, to help citizens, to help SMEs, to transform and overcome the pandemic. You're turning your back on the pandemic. You, as in Andalusia, the money transferred to you is going to a surplus of 850 million euros. [[Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-23-CD210223.u154	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-23-CD210223.u155	The money is right now to spend it. I conclude with what Mr Draghi said - to which we have made so much reference - to the French Finance Minister: my friend, it is time to spend, because tomorrow we do not know...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-23-CD210223.u156	Mr. Hurtado, you have to finish. Thank you very much, Mr Hurtado. [[Applauds]] We vote in three minutes. Ladies and gentlemen, I remind you that you will only be able to vote from your seat, identified with your name on the screen. I would also remind you that those Members who have been authorized to vote for the telematics procedure cannot do so from their seats. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-23-CD210223.u157	Ladies and gentlemen, we have started voting. First of all, we voted to take into consideration the proposed law of the VOX Parliamentary Group, an organic group of domestic violence. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: 103 plus 240 telematics votes, 343; in favour, 52 telematics votes; against, 103 plus 188 telematics votes, 291.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-23-CD210223.u158	Accordingly, the proposal for a law is not taken into consideration. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-23-CD210223.u159	We proceed to vote to take into consideration the proposed law of the Socialist and Confederal parliamentary groups of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communo, organic of the Organic Law 5/1985, of 19 June, of the General Electoral Regime, for the regulation of the exercise of the vote by Spaniards living abroad. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: 103 votes in favour, 240 votes in favour, 343 votes in favour, 103 votes in favour, 240 votes in favour, 343 votes in favour, 343 votes in favour and 343 votes in favour.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-23-CD210223.u160	Accordingly, the proposal for a law is taken into consideration. [[Applauds]] Good night. The meeting was suspended until 9 a.m. tomorrow. It was nine thirty-five minutes of the night.
