ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. The meeting was resumed. Take your seats, please. We continue with the questions addressed to the Government, in accordance with the order sent by the Government. Question by Mr Pablo Casado Blanco, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u2	Mr Sánchez, welcome to Parliament a month later. [[Rumors]] At least we have forced the debate on the state of the nation, which had been blocking for three years. [[Applauds]] Let's see if we're lucky and get three more old petitions, one for every week that's been out of control. It's not much to ask. First, you'll end up accountable to justice. There is a commission of inquiry for hiding a pandemic while thousands of Spaniards are infected, as its Vice-President Díaz has revealed. Me that you, I would go protecting myself. Therefore, I ask you a question: why do you not accept an organic law to combat the virus, which today continues to kill half a hundred Spaniards every day? Second question, between helicopter and Falcon I imagine you will have been told that today the historical record of the price of light is being beaten. I'm not going to ask you if you're going to keep your promise that we'll pay less than in 2018, because no one believes it. Everyone knows that he has lied, as with inflation, as with unemployment, as with debt, as with recovery, as with funds, but I ask him something very concrete: why does he not abolish the electricity tax and lower VAT to the super-reduced so that households can reach the end of the month? And the third question. You're a father and so am I. I can't understand how she leaves a five-year-old child behind while her separatist partners say we have to stone her just because her parents have asked her to secede her rights at Canet. [[protests.-Applause]] I ask you a very direct question: why do you not force the Generalitat to comply with judicial decisions or do you fulfil your constitutional responsibility under article 155? If you don't do it, we'll be denouncing it out of disobedience, but if you're making a blind eye to your vows, it's you who would be committing a crime of prevarication. [[Several Members: Very well!-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u3	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u4	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Married, how many coffees do you have this morning? [[Let's give it up.-Laughter.]] Your Honor, I have to tell you that I respect you, in the face of all the rift, insults and insidies that you utter every Wednesday in these General Courts. You have asked about the debate on the state of the nation, and I tell you that this is a government that is accountable to Parliament, which deeply respects Parliament. [[protests.-Applause]] I'm just going to give you some data. In less than half of the legislature, Your Honor, we have appeared - or rather, I have appeared - before this plenary on thirteen occasions - the last one was last month - two more times in the Senate and I have also answered a total of 158 oral questions in 50 control sessions over the little more than 24 months that we have been in the legislature. Therefore, Your Honor, this is a government that is accountable to Parliament. [[Protests]] And yes, I will tell you that we will hold the debate on the state of the nation next year. [[Protests.-A Member of Parliament: Five years!]] It should be remembered that in 2019 there was a parliamentary blockade resulting precisely from the impossibility of being able to form Government and, therefore, the elections had to be repeated twice; subsequently, there has been a pandemic. Indeed, Your Honor, I think it is good that Spain is recovering democratic normality and that is what we are going to do next year too, celebrating the debate on the state of the nation. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u5	Mr. Married.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u6	What insensitivity! He's not answering anything. But does it seem normal that these totalitarians are attacking a child? What's the point of a government that leaves the most disadvantaged? Girls protected by the Socialist Government of Balearic Islands who have been prostituted and refuse to investigate. The child abused by Monica Oltra's husband, while the Valencian socialist government was hiding it. To a child of a pardon for you who hid sexual assaults. So much crap from 'child', from strike of toys and bubbles and drawings in Basque, but you leave the minors unprotected. In addition, with its waste, it takes away their education and takes away their pensions until the future. Look, how would you say, what the hell has to happen in Spain for you to take some responsibility? [[Several Members: Very well!-Applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, standing by]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u7	Mr. President of the Government. [[Rumors]] Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u8	Madam President, we have just seen again a clear example of the opposition and lack of respect for the General Courts on the bench of the right. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is good for Spain to regain democratic normality. This government is focused on overcoming the pandemic, on consolidating economic recovery, Your Honor. And recovering the economic situation implies political stability, implies democratic normality. It implies, Your Honor, having four-year legislatures, approving General State Budgets in time and form, which we do not do in these General Courts, Your Honor, since 2015, and the Government of Spain will do so for the first time since then. And it also means, Your Honor, fulfilling our constitutional obligations. I ask you again, respectfully - something that you have neither shown nor demonstrated here today in the General Courts - to comply with the Spanish Constitution and to abandon the blockade of the General Council of the Judiciary. [[Applauds]] - OF THE GIRL INES ARRIMED GARCIA, OF THE CITIZEN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT: DOES THE ACTIVATION OF THE GOVERNMENT OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT UNDERSTANDING TO GUARANTEE THE RIGHTS AND FREEDOMS OF THE CONjunTO OF THE SPAIN? [[File number 180/000736]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u9	Question by Mrs Inés Arrimadas García, Member of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u10	Mr Sánchez, a five-year-old boy and his family are suffering from an infamous harassment for asking for 25% of Spanish school hours. What do you have to say, as president of the government, to that Canet de Mar family?
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u11	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u12	Madam President, I am asked here about things that do not materialise when you raise your questions orally. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u13	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u14	I'll answer you, Mrs. Arrimadas. First, this is a Government that expresses solidarity with the son and parents of the Canet school. Secondly, it is a Government that is committed to democratic legality and, therefore, will always express the demand that the final sentences of the judiciary be complied with in this case. Thirdly, this is a government that works for coexistence in classrooms, in schools. We will never politicize with language or education in any of the territories of our country. [[Applauds]] Finally, Your Honor, this is a government that lives, feels and interprets territorial diversity, the co-official languages - both Catalan, Basque and Galician and Spanish - and that will always guarantee the right of all children and girls to be educated and to learn their constitutional languages; in the case of Catalonia, Spanish and Catalan. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u15	Mrs. Arrimadas.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u16	He says that because recognizing that they do not intend to do anything not to upset their separatist partners would be too sincere on his part, wouldn't he? Look, this family is enduring squabbles, warnings and even threats to stone their house in Canet de Mar, all encouraged by the Generalitat and TV3. Then they say that there are few families, of course, how are they not going to be so few, knowing what they do to them later? Look, the president of the government has all the tools to protect that child, but you haven't done anything or said anything in eleven days. When you really have fascism and hatred in front of you, you never act. Even the Ombudsman, who you, the PP and PSOE have just distributed, is already washing his hands. The Generalitat has already said that it is not going to comply and I ask you, Mr Sánchez, what is your government going to do? Are you going to activate, perhaps, the High Education Inspectorate? Is it going to apply 155? Or will you bend your head, which is what you always do before separatism? The problem is not only that sentences are not enforced in Catalonia, the problem is that families have to go to justice to defend their rights. And it is true that this is not new, I say it because the Spanish governments have abandoned us to the constitutionalists, also those of the PP when it happened the same with the families of Mataró or Balaguer. [[Protests]] There is more dignity and courage in any Catalan constitutionalist who faces separatism than in all the Councils of Ministers we have had for the past thirty years. [[Rumors]] But you, of course, go beyond all limits. Look, do you know what the demonstration is that you're hostage to the separatists? That I am convinced that in your reply you will be able to attack citizens more than your partners who crush a five-year-old. We already know that you are not going to do anything, but I say to you: more and more Catalans raise their voices before nationalism and do not conform. And that will be the beginning of the end of the separatist regime of its partners. Spain, fortunately, is much stronger than your Government and, despite you and your separatist partners, freedom will eventually prevail in all parts of Spain. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u17	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u18	Thank you, Madam President. I believe that more and more Catalans and Catalans - they have shown it in the last autonomous elections in Catalonia - want to be concord, to live together, to overcome precisely the evil so-called process of the last few years. [[Applauds]] That's what I think they want. Look, you ask whether this is a government that defends the rights and freedoms of all Spaniards. And I say yes, that we defend them. We defend the rights and freedoms of all Spaniards. This is a government committed to public education, Your Honor. In the General Budgets of the State - which you, by the way, have voted against - we raise the budget to more than EUR 2 billion in scholarships, we are also extending the budget for education from 0 to 3 years in all the territories of our country and we are adopting a new education law and a new law on vocational training, precisely to improve the education of our children. In other words, we interpret education as it has to be interpreted by these General Courts, as interpreted by the majority of Spanish citizens, Your Honor, as a factor of social mobility and also of integration and intellectual progress of each and every one of our children. We're not going to be in your inflammatory statements. You speak of linguistic apartheid! But do you know what apartheid has meant in South Africa, ladies and gentlemen? How is it possible that we have the opposition leader talking a little less about a problem like the 1960 Mississippi problem in the United States? [[Rumors.-Applause.]] Please don't politicize the language and use language and education as it has to be, like... [[protests]] [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u19	Thank you very much, Mr President. - OF THE DEVELOPED DONATOR ESTEBAN BRAVE, OF THE VASCO Parliamentary Group, WHO FORMULATES THE PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT: HAVE YOU STAYED WITH THE RENEWAL OF CONSTITUTIONAL BODIES? [[EAJ-PNV]] [[File number 180/000726]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u20	Question by Mr Aitor Esteban Bravo, from the Basque Parliamentary Group, EAJ-PNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u21	Good morning, Mr. President. Have you been satisfied with the renewal of the constitutional bodies?
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u22	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u23	To a direct question, a direct answer: No!. Because, of course, we still lack the renewal of the General Council of the Judiciary. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u24	Mr. Esteban.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u25	Neither do I, Mr. President, but not for that. I am not exactly an iconoclastic and I think I am quite institutional, but it seems to me that there are two virtues that the constitutional organs have to have. Firstly, it is pluralism, a pluralism that is very much reflected in this House, and secondly, it is impartiality, not only being impartial but also appearing to be impartial. There is a Court of Auditors where there have always been only people nominated by the People's Party or the Socialist Party. A very darkly functioning Court of Auditors, which has had problems even in hiring administrative staff with clear endogamy. A Court of Auditors that has been transformed from an administrative body to a judicial body, but to an aggravated judicial body because it does not really have a higher material body of appeal and therefore becomes omnimod and all-powerful. And the People's Party and Mr Bermúdez de Castro are well aware of this, as a few of us opposed this. Reforming all that would have been genuine renewal. A Constitutional Court that appoints people who have a shadow of corruption, who have accusations before the courts and academic incompatibilities, it seems, they say, endorsed by which he is now the president of the Constitutional Court, and with continuous opinions on political issues, opinions on the part published on issues of constitutional significance. And those political statements - we are seeing it today - to what they can, logically, lead to a rebuttal and to which they are separated, because of their clear predisposition and prejudice. So who today believes in the neutrality and objectivity of these constitutional bodies and in the Constitutional Court, for example? Well, I don't think even those who named them, that some of them said they did it with a tweezer in their noses. Neutral bodies are needed to solve problems; otherwise, there is no credibility. This is not to strengthen the institutions - Mr Bolaños said - it is to undermine them. And they are declining - at the same time, less and less trust - to rejoice over the ultras, who can increase their propaganda in the face of the detachment of citizens with the institutions. And I'd talk to you about more things, but since there's no time, we'll talk about the Crown another day.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u26	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u27	Thank you very much, Madam President. You have referred in your speech to us as government parties, Your Honor, and in the agreements it is a matter of making the difference, of agreeing with someone who proposes names that one would never have proposed to represent the high judiciary of the Constitutional Court, as you have mentioned. To speak of constitutional reform with a bench of the far right and the right, which refuses to simply modify article 49, as precisely called for by the social movements of disability to eliminate the diminished term, seems to me simply an academic exercise but not pragmatic from a political point of view. [[applause]] We are experiencing the worst health calamity in the last hundred years of human history; I believe that the duty of all - as I have said before to the leader of the opposition - is to regain democratic normality. Democratic normality means a four-year legislature, budgets in time and form, recovering debate from the state of the nation and also fulfilling our constitutional obligations. The obligation of the Government and the parliamentary groups that support this Government is precisely to unlock the paralysis of institutions that are very important for the functioning of our democracy that have been blocked for more than a thousand days, Your Honor. Here we have also seen parliamentary initiatives of the opposition that have counted on the rejection of the absolute majority of the House, to change, for example, the system of election of the members of the General Council of the Judiciary. And they continue to block that renewal, failing and, therefore, insufferable to their constitutional obligations. In short, what lies behind all this is what has always happened to the political right in this country - now aggravated by the presence of the ultra-right - and it is the non-recognition and non-legitimization of any government that is not a conservative government, as happened to Felipe González, first, to José Luis Rodríguez Zapatero, then, and me, now. This is the question, Your Honor, it is a question of democratic principles, of assuming - which has not been assumed by the right or the right - what its status is, and its status is a parliamentary minority. Therefore, I, taking advantage of your question, am transferring you to the People's Parliamentary Group so that, once and for all, you can comply with your constitutional obligations and get out of constitutional submission. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEVELOPED GAMARRA RUIZ-CLAVIJO DESIGN OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, which FORMULATES THE VICE-President OF THE AND MINISTER OF ECONOMIC AFFAIRS AND DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION: WHY DO YOU THINK ALL NATIONAL AND INTERNATIONAL BODIES HAVE A 'CAASTROFIST ACTIVITY' WITH REGARD TO THE SPANISH ECONOMY? [[File number 180/000731]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u28	Question to the first Vice-President of the Government and Minister for Economic Affairs and Digital Transformation. Question by Mrs Concepción Gamarra Ruiz-Clavijo of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u29	Thank you, President. Madam Vice-President, today we hear here how we speak - the President says - of not politicising the language, when they have even conditioned the general budgets of the State to the language. [[Applauds]] Are you also going to abandon that child who asks to be educated in his language? Because, Madam Vice-President, the OECD foresees that the Spanish economy will not return to pre-pandemic levels until 2023. This is said by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, not the PP, which as well. On the other hand, Germany, France or Italy are already recovering from the economic crisis caused by COVID. Why are they trying to lie to us by saying that we will reach cruise speed in 2022? To cover up your incompetence? Why do you think that all national and international bodies have what you define as a catastrophic attitude towards the Spanish economy? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u30	Madam First Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u31	Thank you very much, President. How desperate you must be to say that kind of barbarity we have heard here this morning! How desperate they must be to have entered a destructive loop that brings nothing good to our country! [[Applauds]] Your Honor, with all due respect I say to you that the only ones who have a grey, sad, destructive and negative view of the Spanish economy and our country are you. [[Applauds]] The truth is that the economic recovery is underway and is very strong, that the year is going from less to more, that all agencies expect that Spain will have a solid growth in the coming years, that Spain is leading the deployment of the Recovery Plan and we are leading the vaccination worldwide. That's the reality, ladies and gentlemen. Get out of your destructive loop that brings nothing good to Spanish citizens. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u32	Mrs. Gamarra.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u33	Look, Vice President, you're denying the evidence. Are you also going to deny a 5.5% inflation today that just came out? Are you going to deny the rise of the light that is happening again today in our country? The consensus of the national and international bodies - they - says that Spain will grow by 4.7% this year, 2 points less than its forecast a few months ago, and by 2022 they speak of a growth of 5.8%, far from its unreal 7% that it poses for the budgets. Where's your fair and robust recovery? You will tell us again today that this is about reforms, and you know very well that on Monday, in the European Parliament, it was criticized that most of the reforms that your Government has sold for the disbursement of European funds were already planned before the COVID and that this can also cost us that they will not arrive from Brussels. Mrs Calviño, explain to the Spanish why Eurostat places Spain as the worst country of GDP and productivity. This is where you put us. Explain why there are thousands of companies waiting for help to arrive, unless it is Plus Ultra or connected with the families of members of the government, as a digital newspaper reports today. Don't be grieving again, Madam Vice President, don't discuss the vice president about who has gone to see the pope more often, get yourself to fix the problems that the Spaniards have, because the only thing that has cruise speed is the Falcon. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u34	Madam First Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u35	Your Honor, three points to answer. First, all international agencies anticipate strong growth. In fact, the figures you mentioned reflect a strong and sustained growth of the Spanish economy, that is the reality. [[applause]] [[Mrs. Gamarra Ruiz-Clavijo shows a graph]] Secondly, in Spain there are twenty million members of Social Security, we have recovered the levels of affiliation according to all the pre-pandemic metrics, unemployment is below the pre-pandemic levels, tax collection is above the pre-pandemic levels. These are the facts that reflect the reality that you seem to be refusing to see, like the President of the European Commission, Mrs Von der Leyen, she has publicly said that Spain is the most advanced country in the deployment of the Recovery Plan, that we are fulfilling the milestones and that we will therefore be the first country to receive European funds. This is the reality, Your Honor. The reality is also that you do not stop at anything, you use the European Parliament to attack Spain's interests, and this is the opposite of patriotism. Please, in view of your commitment to seeing a grey Spain, a mediocre and sad Spain, which is probably just your own reflection, begin to see the reality of a Spain that is solidarity, positive, looking to the future with confidence and hope. Thank you. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPUTATE OF THE THEOTOR GARCIA EGEA, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHICH FORMS THE SECOND AND MINISTER OF WORK AND SOCIAL ECONOMY TO THE SECOND SECOND CHAIRPERSON: WHY DID THE SECOND CHAIRPERSON EXPECT THE SECOND CASE OF YEARS TO MAKE PUBLIC HIS WARNINGS MADE TO THE REST OF THE GOVERNMENT IN THE PRINCIPLES OF 2020 IN RELATION TO THE PANDEMY OF COLONAVIRUS? [[File number 180/000732]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u36	Questions to the second Vice-President of the Government and Minister for Labour and Social Economy. Question by Mr Teodoro García Egea, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u37	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Calviño, Spain is the country that is currently facing the worst recovery. Do not lie, because you will not be elected president of that body that you want to leave this government which you do not even respect. [[Applauds]] Don't lie. I'm saying it for you, not for nothing. Mrs. Díaz, how communism has evolved! You have gone from criticizing the chalets to buying one, you have gone from criticizing the revolving doors to placing your friends there, you criticize the concerted school but then we take our children to the concerted school and we criticize the subject of Religion but then we are excited to the Vatican. I'm glad you're having a slightly more open mind, but what I'm not sure is whether Rome has gotten a real regret from you. [[Laughter]] Do you regret wanting to repeal the labor reform that is so much helping people? Do you regret not putting the measures taken by the People's Party and the Married Party to turn down the light by 20%? Do you regret the measures that are drowning the Spaniards for the biggest rise of the CPI in thirty years? With you in the government it is true that the workers' struggle has changed: we are the first country to strike a toy strike before a strike for the price of light. We recently knew that you knew of the danger of coronavirus before anyone else, Mrs. Díaz. Why has the second vice president waited almost two years to illustrate us about this? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u38	Madam Second Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u39	Mr. García Aegean, as you worry about some trips, review St.Matthew 19:23-30 [[applause.-Laughter]] And to the point, Mr. García Aegean. Do you know what the problem of the People's Party is? That while the World Health Organization recognizes the management of the Spanish pandemic and also the success of vaccination of this country, its party is not only able to turn into political revenue everything... [[rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u40	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u41	...but it is not even able to satisfy as a country the collective achievements we have had. Perhaps in politics, Mr. García Aegean, it's not all worth it. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u42	Mr. García Aegean.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u43	Mrs. Díaz, issue 20: The Bible strongly condemns lying. [[Laughter]] Have you apologized to those who condemned in Valencia, to the innocents whom you - you and your partner Baldoví - asked for resignation, but who today have been declared innocent? Because they have family and have been defamed by you and your partners. [[Applauds]] You should apologize to them today, because you have to be a person before a politician! [[Applauds]] Mrs. Díaz, have you told the Vatican about the suffering your policies have caused in Spanish families? Since you are President - I say Vice President, you are not yet President - the light has risen by 500 %. Are you going to breach your promise that the same price of light will be paid as in 2018? We are the country that has the worst economic recovery in Europe and with you inflation has been triggered today. My question is: have you changed the protection of a child in Catalonia from the General Budgets of the State to support them Esquerra? Very serious and embarrassing! 80 000 euros for children to play what Minister Garzón says and the greatest lack of protection and shame for those who want to study in Spanish; that is why his bad government has left. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u44	Madam Second Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u45	I note that you are very concerned about the pandemic, Mr García Aegean, which was your question. I'm going to answer you with facts and not words and lots of data. While the Government of Spain, many political forces in this Chamber and social actors are saving lives, jobs and businesses, I will remind you with data what the People's Party was doing, starting with Royal Decree-Law 4 until 35. Do you remember what your party voted for in Royal Decree 4, which repealed the possibility of firing when the workers were ill? Can you imagine, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, what would have happened in this country in the midst of the pandemic if that rule that you did was in force? Mr. García Aegean, can you imagine? Massive layoffs with sick workers; that's what would have happened. [[Applauds]] I will also talk to you, Mr García Eggea, about those votes that you had against or the abstentions not to strengthen the best social protection mechanism that we have had in our country, which is the ERTE. If it had been for you, 3,600,000 workers and more than 550,000 companies would have gone directly into the void, because you have not accompanied this government. But I will also tell you about a real decree that was very sensible for this government and for this country, on 10/2020, which incorporated a retrievable paid permit but which, in short, Mr. García Aegean, almost paralyses the economic activity of this country. It was the toughest decision the Government of Spain made. And you know why? Because we wanted to save lives. In the meantime, you voted against it, you know why? Because he cared little about everything. If for you outside, the companies will continue to work and the workers will continue to become infected. [[Protests.-Applause.]] Stop doing the worst in politics, try to behave like serious people and bring something positive to... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u46	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEVELOPED Mrs Macarena OLONA CHOCLAN, OF THE PARLIAMENTARY GROUP VOX, WHO FORMULATES THE SECOND MINISTER OF WORK AND SOCIAL ECONOMY TO THE SECOND MINISTER OF WORK AND SOCIAL ECONOMY: WHEN ARE YOU GOING TO START RESPECTING THE MINISTER OF WORK AND SOCIAL ECONOMY THE RIGHT OF PROTECT OF WORKERS? [[File number 180/000724]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u47	Question by Mrs Macarena Olona Choclán, Member of the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u48	With all due respect, Madam President. Minister, good morning, when will the Minister of Labour begin to respect the workers' right to protest?
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u49	Madam Second Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u50	The Government of Spain complies with the Constitution every day. I referred to Article 7 at the last sitting and reproduced it again. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u51	Mrs. Olona.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u52	With all due respect, Madam President. Minister, thousands of ERTE workers are not getting their benefit this December. The SEPE has transferred to them that the arrears and the benefit for the month of December will be paid as early as January. What are these families going to eat, minister? Because you are the only responsible, dedicated as you are to a car bomb campaign instead of solving the real needs of workers. We see how he deals with interviews and talks about how he irons his hair in the official car, while thousands of homes this December will not have a single euro of income in their homes. The majority union of CSIF officials has demanded your resignation for the absolute abandonment of SEPE, a claim to which is now added another collective that also depends directly on you, as are the labour inspectors. Even in the north, the ELA union has announced that tomorrow it will mobilize itself by calling a demonstration before the Government delegation to denounce the chaotic situation in which SEPE is located, because they have lost more than five thousand troops in the last years, including the one thousand and five hundred interim officials to whom it has dismissed, despite the extraordinary benefits that they now have to manage in the public employment offices, which you now propose as the only reform to change the name. Am I boring you, Minister? I ask you, please, to think of those thousands of families who are not going to have a single euro of income this Christmas. Please have some decorum and decency. [[Rumors]] With you, Minister of Labour, the workers have lost even the right to protest. Hence my question, don't remind me of the laws, let's go to reality. Because you know who doesn't join those demonstrations? The government unions that you bribed and that have completely abandoned the workers to protect you exclusively, as happened in Cadiz and as happened in Castellón. With this government, the right to strike is only granted to toys, a communist minister, and it is getting more and more citizens in Spain who have less to lose; and when one is caught up in bread, hope and protest, the last thing that is lost is fear. When the workers lose fear, they will regain hope and then, communist minister, they will remember that with dignity one does not eat, but a people without dignity kneels down and ends without eating. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u53	Madam Second Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u54	Thank you, President. Your Honor, thank you for your question, because I am going to talk about mobilizations and, indeed, strikes. Look, right we say where there are papers, the beards shut up. I'm going to talk about your Welfare for All document I guarantee you will never rule in this country, but if you came to rule, you would indeed have massive strikes and mobilizations. [[shows a document]] [[Rumors]] Look, Mrs Olona, page 59 of this document, tell the workers of this country in Cadiz - now that you are so concerned about Andalusia - what you want to do with the right to strike. Page 59: Pickets will be limited to workstations. Tell him too, Mrs Olona, that when you dream of governing you are not the victims of real mobilizations, that you want to cut public pensions, as they say here, that you want to extend the retirement age and that, as you have done and defended so much in Cadiz - page 57 of the document - you want to put an end to this which we are debating today in our country called ultraactivity. [[applause]] Go to Cadiz and explain it to the workers you defend so much. [[A Member of Parliament: Yes!]] One of the causes of mobilization was ultraactivity. Tell them in Cadiz that you in your program say you want to eliminate the ultraactivity of conventions in our country. Also by the way, Your Honor, as they say in this program, tell the Spanish workers the truth, tell them that they want to reduce the compensation for dismissal. Tell them that they want a single contract, that they want all redundancies in our country to go from thirty-three or more days of compensation to twenty for everyone. [[Applauds]] Also tell the young people in this country, as you say in your programme, that they want a garbage contract; a garbage contract also - we are told with absolute frivolity - without just contributions and without just wages. Look, you've asked me many times about EREs, article 51 of the statute. Also read in your political proposal what you say, because you even get into social jurisdiction by telling him that you have to limit the cases of examination to the courts in something as important as - nothing more and nothing less - collective dismissals. Your Honor, if your programme - which I hope you will explain very well in Andalusia - is to be carried forward, you will of course be the victims of massive mobilizations. [[Applause.-Applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, some of them standing]] - OF THE JORDI SAVER'S DEVELOPED I DUCH, OF THE REPULICIAN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE SECOND AND MINISTER OF WORK AND SOCIAL ECONOMY TO THE SECOND SECOND Vice-President: WHAT CONCRETS ARE GOING TO AFFECT THE WORK REFORM ANNOUNCED BY THE GOVERNMENT? [[File number 180/000728]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u55	Question by Mr Jordi Salvador i Duch, Member of the Republican Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u56	Good morning. Mrs Díaz, you know that between 2010 and 2012 the People's Party and the PSOE used the crisis to build emergency labour legislation. You know that labor reforms were designed against the workers of the different peoples of the State. All of this included measures against collective bargaining, sub-contracting down, a devaluation of brutal wages, unacceptable temporality and partiality. What am I going to explain to you! Among many other changes, measures were introduced between 2010 and 2012 to make staffing more flexible. And what did it mean to make the templates more flexible? It meant, for example, that the improper dismissal - I repeat, improper - was reduced, from forty-five days to thirty-three days, that the salaries of processing were terminated or that, for example, the requirement of administrative authorization for EREs and ERTs was eliminated. Well, among the many things that concern us are layoffs, because we are not listening to any proposal from your ministry about it. First it was said that the Mordaza Law would be repealed; before yesterday Amnesty International described the reform of his Government to the Mordaza Law of the PP as pure makeup. And you know that this is used precisely for trade unions to be on the street and for political dissent. Then there was talk of repealing the two labour reforms; then there was only repealing the PP reform; then there was talk of repealing only the most harmful aspects of this reform; today we no longer know where we are, the truth. Do you know - and I would like to use this question to warn you - that if your labour reform consolidates the compensations set by the PP, the salaries set by the PP and the procedure for ERE set by the PP, do not wait for the applause of the Republican Left. That is why I ask you in a very concrete and concise way: does the labor reform that you are negotiating with trade unions and employers include these basic and fundamental issues for us? Otherwise, with what parliamentary majority do you intend to approve? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u57	Madam Second Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u58	Thank you, Mr. Salvador, for your question. I think it is of the utmost interest and of the utmost importance. I would also like to thank your parliamentary group for the work it has been doing with the Spanish Government, especially because in the face of other positions it is showing the maturity and wisdom needed to change our country. To the question that you ask me, Mr Salvador, I believe that what we are doing is public, despite the fact that the negotiation of the Social Dialogue Bureau, which is also meeting right now, is discreet. I must tell you that the Government of Spain is keeping its word, and that the content and scope of the structural reform, of the most important of our country, is contained in the government agreement and also in the so-called Component 23. Your Honor, the government shares your concern for a fundamental reason, you said: we have seen the rules that have been promoted, that have caused a real breakdown of the Spanish labour market, and I know that we share that. I will tell you briefly what the Social Dialogue Bureau is working on and, as I always say, dialogue is social, political and territorial. We are working every day with the autonomous communities, with political groups and also with social actors. In short, we are trying to balance collective bargaining in our country. I have succinctly answered this House, too, with a very important question which you know, and which has to do with the validity of collective agreements which, as you know, the drafting of the PP was so disastrous that the Supreme Court itself, in view of the legal uncertainty it caused, had to change this content in one of its resolutions. Therefore, we are talking about ultraactivity. We're talking about article 42, subcontracting. We are talking about the most serious problem that Spain has, which is called precariousness and temporality. If we have precarious lives, if we have precarious jobs, we have a precarious country. In short, I believe that with your support we will be able to change our country. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u59	Mr. Savior.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u60	As you know, this is the first question we ask you by the Parliamentary Group of Republican Left, because we think that the management you did during the pandemic - SEPE apart - has been good. We are now at a time when it is time for truth, and here we do want to remind you that social dialogue is very legitimate, tremendously legitimate, but it is also legitimate the model of labour relations, etc., that can establish legislation. In that regard, we believe that what has happened with the Pensions Act cannot be repeated. It is important that there be debate, too, in this House on such an important and... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u61	Thank you very much, Mr. Salvador. Madam Second Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u62	Mr. Savior, I think you know me and you know I'm going to keep my word. I need discretion in the current management, but of course the dialogue will also be political. [[rumors]] [[Protests.-Applause.]] - OF THE DEPUTY DON JUAN DIEGO REQUENA RUIZ, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHO FORMULATES THE THIRD AND MINISTER FOR THE ECOLOGICAL TRANSITION AND DEMOGRAPHIC CHALLENGE: WHAT DO YOU THINK THE PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT WILL DO IN THE CASE OF COMPLETING HIS PROMISE WITH THE PRICE OF THE LIGHT AT THE END OF THE YEAR? [[File number 180/000733]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u63	Question addressed to the third Vice-President of the Government and Minister for the Ecological Transition and the Demographic Challenge. Question by Juan Diego Requena Ruiz, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u64	Mrs Ribera, when you look at the price of light, including tolls, and last year you paid six cents and this year you pay forty-two, what do you think? When you see that you have collected more for the electricity tax than last year, when we have had a record CO2 emissions tax collection, when you are responsible for emptying the pocket of the Spaniards and filling the state's coffers, when the main consumer organizations tell you that with the electricity bill already in November we have paid more than all of 2018 together, when you see that, do you still keep the promise to pay in the electricity bill the same as in 2018? Because, if so, you become, and this government becomes, a pathological liar who despises the Spaniards and insults the intelligence of our entire country. What do you think I should do as a minister and what should the President of the Government do with you if you have the slightest sense of responsibility, once we already know that your word is worthless and that President Sánchez's promise is nothing more than a gross lie? Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u65	Madam Third Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u66	Thank you very much, President. Thank you very much, Your Honor, for your question. I am aware of what worries them about the price of light, mainly because of the noise and obsession with the attacks on the Government of Spain and all its members, on the sidelines... [[protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u67	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u68	... of national and international reality and of energy markets, but in any case, do not worry, because this government will keep its word. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u69	Mr. Requena.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u70	Mrs Rivera, your main problem and the problem of this Government is not only that they lie and deceive all the time and everyone, their main problem is incompetence, irresponsibility and sectarianism. Incompetence because, despite the continuous warnings we have made to it, we are in minimum reserve of natural and crude gas, the price of the candy has never been so high and gasoline is a luxury item. Perhaps this is a matter of eurillos for you, but my heating is butane and that of real Spain as well. Mrs Ribera, do you know how much heating is going to cost the Spanish this winter? Irresponsibility for the closure of the Maghreb pipeline, for blaming Europe for its own mistakes or for leaving Spain's credibility as a junk bond, with an interventionist government unable to solve anything. And sectarianism for its threats to nuclear power, for not lowering taxes on gas consumers or for creating the National Fund for the Sustainability of the Electrical System, with the sole aim of electrifying at the cost of shutting down industry and abandoning rural Spain. Incompetence, irresponsibility and sectarianism, where the only thing that has emerged is the state's arks. Mrs Ribera, what does it matter if you keep your promise or not? No one believes her. What would have to be done is to permanently reduce the super-reduced VAT, remove non-electric costs from the bill, abolish the tax on electricity production forever, give the same tax treatment to gas consumers and then you resign and never go back to this plenary. Does your merit today know what it is? The record price in this country's history in the wholesale electricity market. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u71	Madam Third Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u72	Thank you very much, President. Thank you very much, Your Honor. I see that you repeat, over and over again, the same speech. It can be seen that he has problems getting out of it and making more constructive proposals to respond to the serious problems we face in the face of a complex decade of turbulence in the transformation of the energy system. But I will take this opportunity to remind you that, on average, Spanish citizens, domestic consumers, will pay the same as they paid in 2018, because we cannot discriminate on the basis of how much they consume or what contracts Spanish people have in their homes, but we have made a very important tax effort with a tax reduction never seen before more than 60% of the tax on domestic electricity and 96% of those fixed costs, and increased it from 25% to 60% and 40% to 70% for vulnerable and extreme consumers. [[protests]] [[applause]] They will therefore pay the same, on average, to all domestic consumers, even when the wholesale market price is above 115 euros compared to 58 euros in 2018. It is an impressive collective effort, because it seems to us that the Spanish citizens deserve it. That's not enough. We believe that it is very important that all the European countries, which are living in a similar or worse situation - today we hit record in Spain, but in France they are at 340, in Germany they are above us; like the Belgians, the Italians, the Austrians, etc. - they are considering what to do collectively in the face of turbulent and dramatic episodes like this, and they must prepare for what is going to be a complex decade of transformation. We would like to count on you, just as we would like to count on you to achieve in a fair and solidarity-based manner a transformation of the energy system, which is already taking place, and which needs to be accelerated in order to avoid such high volatility in international markets with regard to fossil fuels. So... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u73	Thank you very much, Vice President. - OF THE DEVELOPED WOMAN IVAN SPINOSIS OF THE SIMON MONTERS, OF THE VOX PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF BUSINESS AND PUBLIC FUNCTION: WHAT TAXES DO YOU HAVE PROVIDED TO SUBMIT THE GOVERNMENT? [[File number 180/00723]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u74	Questions to the Minister for Finance and Public Service. Question by Mr Iván Espinosa de los Monteros de Simon, Member of the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u75	Thank you very much, Madam President. Madam Minister, the question I am going to ask is not new. In fact, I have already formulated it four times. I will not surprise you, but you have double emotion: first, to know if you are going to answer the question and not to devote yourself to distracting or making attacks ad hominem, as you like; and, second, if you answer it, to know if you are going to tell the truth this time. Here goes the question "are you prepared?" : what taxes does the government plan to raise? [[laughs]] [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u76	Minister of Finance and Public Service.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u77	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Espinosa de los Monteros, this House offers me a great deal of respect. I don't think we come here to play, nor do we come here to some sort of VOX exposure. Here we come to account for the management of the Government, and what I can tell you about the management of the Government, as I have said on other occasions, is that this Government has commissioned a committee of experts to formulate a proposal that will enable the Government, at the end of February, to obtain a serious, rigorous, plural document that will enable us to make the right decisions on how we need to transform our tax system to adapt it to the realities of the twenty-first century. But I'm going to tell you two other things. Among the last actions of the government, Mr Espinosa de los Monteros, we have proceeded to announce the reduction of VAT on surgical masks, a law of Startups that lowers taxation to companies so that entrepreneurs have the facilities to set up their first business. And I can also tell you, Your Honor, that we are going to extend the reduction in taxes that accompany the bill of light during the first quarter of next year, because taxation for this government is an instrument that has to allow us to preserve the welfare state and accompany the economic situation. That's serious. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u78	Señor Espinosa de los Monteros.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u79	Thank you very much, Madam President. That's not what you told me last time. What he said to me was: the government is not going to raise taxes either to the middle class or to the working class. That's what you said, but then they didn't leave a tax behind. They raised the IRPF and corporate tax, raised the VAT on sugary drinks, increased the tax on insurance premiums, penalized savings by reducing deductions on pension plans, raised the property tax, invented the Tobin tax, Google tax and the plastic tax and created a new waste tax. Mrs. Montero, you've surpassed Mr. Montoro. The result, according to the OECD, is that Spain has been the developed economy where fiscal pressure rose the most in 2020, a news that needs to be read together with another: Spain is the most lagging country in recovery. And now they're gonna do it again. In a few days you are going to raise, in a country with the highest unemployment rate in Europe, contributions to self-employed people and workers; you are going to raise the enrolment tax, affecting an industry which is one of the largest in Spain, that of the automobile and auxiliary industry; you are going to raise the maximum rate of VAT on masks again, when in addition to this of masks you have implemented it in a mandatory way; you are going to attack the private order again with a new tijeretazo to the pension plans and, in addition, you are going to take advantage of the rise in the price of light, which you are unable to stop, to fill the public arches at the expense of the taxpayer, as you acknowledge the budgets that you are approving. After the fiscal offensive that you have plotted against the Spanish in the midst of the crisis, you are already preparing the next one, but I will tell you one thing. Although your Minister of Labour will lead the protests on the street - I have no doubt because he has already threatened us with it -, when we get to the government we will reverse all the tax increases that you are sacrificing to the Spaniards. That will be much later than we would like, but much sooner than you think, so within a very, very short time the Spaniards will again have a fiscal pressure commensurate with their economic situation, and we will have hope in a future in which you will not take them out every day. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u80	Minister of Finance and Public Service.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u81	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Espinosa, there's no worse deaf person than the one who doesn't want to hear. I have just told you that last Tuesday we announced that the VAT on masks was going to be lowered, that the rebate was going to be extended, and you again say in this House that it is going to be raised. We already know what VOX's fiscal policy is: save who can, but the important thing, Mr Espinosa de los Monteros, is not only to see how taxation must be directed, but also to combat tax fraud. We can agree on that. All taxpayers will have to contribute according to their capacity and tax obligations, because the obligation of any civilized citizen is to pay. Paying, Mr Espinosa, not like you do. [[Applauds]] Pay. [[A Member of Parliament: Very well!]] We will therefore continue to work to ensure that taxation - I insist - is an instrument that preserves the welfare state and accompanies the economy. We will fight tax fraud and ultimately fight for the well-being of citizens, as we have done since the first day. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPUTY DON JOAN BALDOVI RODA, OF THE PLURAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF BUSINESS AND PUBLIC FUNCTION: HOW WILL YOU RESOLVE THE PROBLEMS OF INFRAFINANCE OF THE TERRITORY VALENT THE NEW MODEL? [[File number 180/000722]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u82	Question by Mr Baldoví Roda, Member of the Plural Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u83	Minister, the courteous man doesn't take away the brave. You are being courteous: I thank you for finally presenting the basic document to start talking about funding and for starting to walk. It's more than the PP ever did. You were courteous: I really liked paying that. [[Laughter]] The brave thing: a first analysis of the document does not invite the Valencians precisely to optimism. The document is ambiguous enough so that we can even get worse financed. In fact, the Fundación de Estudios de Económica Aplicada - Fedea - has produced an analysis and with these criteria of adjusted population what we currently lose from 2.7 could move to 4.7, that is, we could stay the last. And, as Lluís Llach's song said, it's not axiom. It's not that, minister, we haven't waited so long to stay underfunding again. Cotton doesn't cheat. Yesterday's news: the Valencian community is the second with the highest debt, after Catalonia: 52,300 million. And it's not a problem with spending. It is a problem of income, because we are below per capita expenditure; it is a problem of funding. Therefore, given that some estimates consider that the adjusted population calculation will not solve the problems of just financing the underfunded communities, how does the Government intend to address this? Will the ministry accept the allegations of the Valencian Government?
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u84	Minister of Finance and Public Service.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u85	Thank you very much, Madam President. Indeed, Mr Baldoví, as we committed ourselves, we put into circulation - aimed at all the autonomous communities - the first document, the first draft which attempts to approximate a proposal on adjusted population. I have to say, Mr Baldoví, that the document and the proposal do not allow a ranking of autonomous communities. If there is any association, some foundation that is making these rankings according to the very proposals that they set out in the range or interval that we give to weigh the cost of public services in each of the sections that are defined there, it is important to take this into account, because we are now waiting for the contributions of the autonomous communities to determine exactly what the health burden on the model has to have, the weight that education, social services, insularity, dispersion or other variables that we have raised in relation to the model. I would like to say, Mr Baldoví, that this proposal contemplates many of the elements that the Valencian community raised for the discussion of the funding model in a pioneering study. For example, I give you one fact: the increase in population groups over health has gone from seven groups previously in the model to twenty groups, so that we can better measure the weight of the population in this pressure they have on public services. Besides, Mr. Baldoví, this is one of the variables in the model. It is neither the final result nor the determining variable for the rest of the parameters that are incorporated to give rise to a per capita financing result in Valencia of one type or another. It is important that we agree on the elements - the variables - that push up the cost of public services. That has to be the debate and still, Your Honor, until the model is completed, in no case can we talk about whether a community can benefit or be harmed. Let us accompany this debate, let us do it rigorously, because that is the only way we can move forward. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u86	Mr. Baldoví.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u87	Two more questions. First, do you plan to provide additional resources to the funding system? And, second, why can a fund be set up in general budgets to compensate for the negative liquidations of the autonomous communities without consulting the Fiscal and Financial Policy Council, and the same has not been done with a levelling fund so that the worst-funded communities could approach the average? And a data for Mr. García Aegean - who is not here now -. Imputations of the Valencian PP: three former presidents, twenty-four former councillors, three former deputy presidents, who has to apologize? [[protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u88	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u89	They have very fine skin. You talk, but you don't like to hear... [[Protests Continue]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u90	Thank you very much, Mr. Baldoví. Quiet, please! Minister of Finance and Public Service.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u91	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Baldoví, to the first question, bluntly, yes. It is obvious that the financing system - I have always said this - will have to feed on more resources in order to be able to adequately finance services that tend to excellence, and liquidation is an element, Your Honor...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u92	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEVELOPED Mrs Isabel Pozouta Fernández, of the Parliamentary Group EUSKAL HERRIA BILDU, which FORMS TO THE GOVERNMENT: What measures will the GOVERNMENT take to address the serious consequences generated by the floods in Navarra and the Autonomous Community? [[File number 180/000737]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u93	Questions to the Minister for the Interior. Question by Mrs Isabel Pozueta Fernández, Member of the Parliamentary Group Euskal Herria Bildu.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u94	Minister, the serious consequences of the rainstorm suffered in Euskal Herria these past few days are well known. Two people lost their lives in Navarre and the situation that has remained in many populations located on the banks of the Zadorra, Deva, Bidasoa, Arga and Ebro rivers, among others, is desolating. Small businesses, crop fields, private houses, workshops and broken infrastructure, all of which are huge losses for thousands of people. From here, we show solidarity and send our full support to the families, neighbors and neighbors who have suffered this disaster. The citizenship of different peoples... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u95	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u96	... and in particular his youth have given us this weekend the best example, organizing, creating a huge auzolan to help clean up villages and neighborhoods, a solidarity work in the interest of the community. What the people have done must be taken up by the institutions and, therefore, asked: what measures will the Government take, in addition to the declaration of an area seriously affected by an emergency, to deal with the serious consequences caused by the floods in Navarre and the Basque Autonomous Community?
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u97	Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u98	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Pozueta. As you have said, my first words, in my name, but also in the name of the Government, are in solidarity with the families of the two people who died in the Navarra towns of Sunbilla and Elizondo and with all those affected in Euskadi, Navarra, Cantabria, Aragon and other localities. The Government also wants to highlight what you have said in your words: the National Civil Protection System, the set of administrations, the central administration, the autonomous and local authorities, this system also where you have referred to all civil protection volunteers, who have worked on prevention and response, also two very important elements, to minimize as far as possible the harmful results resulting from the adverse weather phenomenon. As the President anticipated yesterday, the Government will declare them areas seriously affected by civil protection emergencies in the Council of Ministers next Friday. This entails the necessary aid for the emergency, as we always say, to conclude when normality can be restored, within the parameters, for all those affected, with the measures adopted by the Ministry of the Interior within the framework of Royal Decree 307/2005 on aid, and those which can and should be adopted once the damage has been determined and evaluated by all the ministries within their competence, as we have done in other emergencies which, sadly, and as a result of climate change, we have been suffering in recent years. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u99	Mrs. Pozueta.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u100	Mr Marlaska, it is now up to this government to respond with all the necessary measures, with strength, efficiency and agility. It is necessary to declare a catastrophic zone, yes, and there is a need for real and practical measures, special budgets that urgently respond to the needs of municipalities and people who need to resume their lives, access their homes, businesses and ensure public services, because the consequences of the pandemic, this disaster can be the end for many of them. Don't delay quantification and help, because many families and small businesses can't wait. We ask you not to forget the serious consequences that Arab and Gipuzkoa citizens have suffered as well and to declare areas seriously affected in these territories, as they need the aid. Take into account the requests of our governments and municipalities, so that all those who have suffered from these floods can recover as soon as possible. Milesker.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u101	Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u102	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you very much, Mrs. Pozueta. I would like to reiterate the solidarity, empathy and responsibility of the Government of Spain with all those affected and not simply with regard to the declaration of the area as seriously affected by an emergency of civil protection. We will proceed to approve the aid and the need to compensate for the damage, but I remind you that there are also other administrations which are responsible on the same terms, such as the autonomous and local administrations. I say to you again: the National Civil Protection System works properly, coordinatedly and effectively in this country, and is demonstrated in the public sector. From the minute one is working on prevention - which is very important - and on the answer, which is effective, minimizing damage. Obviously, we compensate to the right extent for the return to normality. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF CARLOS GARCIA ADANERO, OF THE JOINT PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF THE INTERIOR: DOES THE GOVERNMENT HAVE PROVIDED TO DECLAR THE AREAS AFFECTED BY THE INVESTMENTS THAT HAVE BEEN TAKEN FROM THE LAST FRIDAY, 10 DECEMBER, IN THE FORAL COMMUNITY OF NAVAR AS A ZONE AFFECTED VERY MUCH BY AN EMERGENCY OF CIVIL PROTECTION, ALSO KNOWN AS A ZONE OF NATURAL DISASTER? [[File number 180/000738]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u103	Question by Mr Carlos García Adanero, Member of the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u104	Thank you very much, Madam President. We're still on the same subject. I would also like to express my solidarity with the families of the two people who died because of the floods in Sunbilla and Elizondo. In this case, these floods have affected the Foral Community of Navarre from the north to the south, passing through Pamplona itself and its region. Of course, our solidarity also with all those affected, who have been many - personally with the families of the two deceased - but also business, housing, cars, agricultural infrastructure, road infrastructure, etc. Therefore, by the words of the minister, we hope and hope that the Government will take good note of this. Apart from Friday, when I made the decision, I would do it with the numbers and the data in my hand so that I could attend to these people. However, I do not know whether you can at this time extend the information you have transferred to the previous Member. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u105	Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u106	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you very much, Mr García Adanero. I will repeat the same thing: we have a strong National Civil Protection System. You know that this is one of the top concerns of this Government; state plans, autonomous plans and local plans have developed and evolved. We are working decisively on all the adverse weather phenomena. I want to use this time to highlight that work and coordination, which is where there really is effective and real coordination, as there should be in other areas, between the central administration, the autonomous one, the local one and also civil society, all those so important civil protection volunteers and those that have been referred to earlier. Look, there are two elements. One, prevention. We are increasingly working on prevention by investing in science. The Aemet and the hydrographic confederations are working so that we can take early action. That also allows us a much more effective response, with all the appropriate means for the results to be at least harmful. And, two, recovery. Obviously, there will be elements of remedial compensation of everything to return to normality. On Friday we will declare the affected area severely. As you will understand, damage assessments will necessarily take your time until the damage is consolidated and can be determined. Even today in Aragon we have an area of complexity, and there too we have to extend solidarity. I would like again to say that these terms will be worked on and the ministerial departments within their competence, as they have done in other adverse weather events, have taken the necessary and precise measures to assist in the repair of the damage caused. But let us work and look at the prevention and the means necessary to respond to these meteorological phenomena which, as I said, unfortunately and as a result of climate change, we are facing more routinely. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u107	Mr. García Adanero.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u108	Thank you very much, Minister. The problem is that you already know that, at the moment, after the experience in La Palma, people do not see clearly that the aid will arrive even if it is approved. We are seeing these days that these aids are not yet arriving in La Palma. But, speaking of prevention, there is a very important issue, which is the cleaning of rivers, and that is a matter of political will, but you have no political will to clean up rivers. The Ebro Hydrographic Confederation, having money, did not want to clean the rivers. The consequence of this is the volume of the riada and its effects. Apart from the rain, it obviously has a lot to do with that cleaning. In the General Budgets of the State of 2018, by an amendment of the Navarro People's Union, there were 7 million euros to clean the channels of the Ebro River, among others, of the rivers of the Ebro Hydrographic Confederation and you did not execute anything, good 2%, because you have no political will. And what the citizens of these areas demand, what the farmers demand, what the farmers demand is that the rivers should be cleared because if they are cleaned, the consequences will be much smaller. Does the Government have the political will to clean up the rivers of Navarre?
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u109	Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u110	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you, Mr. García Adanero. With regard to La Palma, I would like to point out that I believe that the Government has, from the outset, acted with all the diligence that with the emergency - the greatest emergency we have had - has been possible. We have already allocated 240 million and the millions that are necessary and precise will be allocated; and I would like to express our full solidarity with La Palma. And I tell you again, as far as forecasting is concerned, we are doing prevention policy and also obviously within the hydrographic confederations... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u111	Thank you, Minister. - OF THE DEVELOPED MARIA SANDRA MONEO DEZ, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHICH FORMS THE MINISTER OF EDUCATION AND VOCATIONAL TRAINING: HOW LONG IS THE GOVERNMENT GOING TO BE FOLLOWING ANOTHER WINDOW IS HOSTING AND THREATING CATALIAN FAMILIES TO TRY TO EDUCATION HIS CHILDREN IN HIS LANGUAGE IN HIS COUNTRY? [[File number 180/000735]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u112	Question addressed to the Minister for Education and Vocational Training. Question by Mrs María Sandra Moneo Díez, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u113	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, a five-year-old, five-year-old!, and your family are being persecuted and harassed in Catalonia for asking for something as surprising as wanting to be educated in the official language of this country which, in case you have forgotten, is the Castilian. That's why I ask you, how long is this government going to go on looking the other way while harassing and threatening families in Catalonia for wanting their children to be educated in the language of their country? Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u114	Minister for Education and Vocational Training.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u115	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mrs Moneo, on this subject the Government has been very clear from the outset. We strongly condemn any kind of threat and harassment, mainly when it is about minors and also happens in schools, in the school of Canet or in any other municipality of Spain. Look, that government isn't looking anywhere else. We are working to ensure the well-being of children and also school coexistence in all educational institutions. That's our top priority, but I doubt it's yours. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u116	Mrs. Moneo.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u117	Minister, what are you saying? Let yourself be left with empty words and that halo of goodism, because what is happening in Catalonia is of extreme gravity. In Catalonia it is pursued, it is pointed out, it is stigmatized even the children, the children!, the most tangible example of the degradation of a society, while you do nothing, absolutely nothing. And do you know why, Minister? Because you're still the best alibi of separatism in Catalonia. [[Applauds.-A honourable Member: Very well!]] That's the reality! That's why you, Minister, have called the counselor to ask him for help, but have you been worthy to pick up the phone and call that family that's being harassed? That is why the Education Adviser of the Generalitat has said that you - yes, you, Madam Minister - have given him assurances that you will not enforce the Supreme Court's judgment so that the Spanish is present in the education system in the percentage that the courts dictate. Minister, if this is true - you have an opportunity to deny it here - you have to resign. Because what you're doing is defending the contempt of a public office that refuses to comply with court rulings. [[Applause.- Various Members: Very well!]] Look, minister, lady Alegría, when a family says that feeling hatred, intimidation, threats, the marking on their own skin is very hard, a minister of the Kingdom of Spain does not hide but causes the whole burden of the law to fall to protect the weakest. Since you as a minister clearly have no intention of doing anything, at least put yourself on the skin of that family as a mother, because that family, as you have said, do not want to be heroes simply want to be parents. Thank you so much. [[Applause.- Various Members: Very well!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u118	Minister for Education and Vocational Training.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u119	Thank you very much. Mrs Moneo, you are political - like me - and you also have a responsibility, which is not to put the school in the political pim pam pum. [[Rumors]] Yes, yes, Mrs. Moneo. All administrations also have a responsibility, which is to ensure school coexistence in all schools, but, after listening to it today and listening to the rest of the leaders of the People's Party throughout these days, I think it is appropriate to reflect on it: Since when has the People's Party ceased to be a State party? Since when has the People's Party ceased to be a government party? Since when has the People's Party ceased to be that responsible right in this country? [[Rumors]] [[Rumors]] [[Rumors]] Since when does the People's Party use any excuse to try to divide the society of this country? [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u120	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u121	Do you not realize, Mrs Moneo, that with these speeches it is hatred and division that encourage them? [[Applauds]] I remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that not long ago you sat on these benches and, when this happened, you said that the language could not be used for political purposes. But today, after listening to you, Mrs. Moneo, do you know what I have to tell you? That whatever happens in Canet or any municipality in Catalonia doesn't matter to you at all. [[Protests and rumors]] You have only one goal, which is to warm up the political rift if that gives you electoral revenues. [[Rumors]] And that's a very dangerous and irresponsible way of understanding politics. I will tell you one thing, gentlemen of the People's Party, a few days ago your leader, Mr Casado, was in Chile and said that bad ideas have bad results. Well, apply the story, because there is no worse idea than to try to divide and separate the Spaniards using the language badly, separating the Spaniards, speak the language they speak. [[A Member of the European Parliament: Answer]] They assume their responsibility because you should be a party of state and government. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEVELOPED GIL LAZARO IGNACIO, OF THE VOX PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF PRESIDENCY, RELATIONS WITH THE COURTS AND DEMOCRATIC MEMORY: WHAT OPINION DOES IT DESERVE THAT A PART OF THE GOVERNMENT SHOULD BE ABIERTLY CONTRACTED TO THE FORCE CONSTITUTION? [[File number 180/000725]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u122	Question to the Minister for the Presidency: Relations with the Courts and Democratic Memory. Question by Mr Ignacio Gil Lázaro, Member of the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u123	Thank you, Madam President. What is your view that a part of the Government is openly against the Constitution?
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u124	Minister of the Presidency, Relations with the Courts and Democratic Memory.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u125	Thank you very much, Madam President. I find it heartening that the far right is concerned about the Constitution in our country. And with regard to the Government, he simply informed him that everyone we sit on the blue banks promises to keep and keep the Constitution, and that's what we do every day. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u126	Mr. Gil Lazarus.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u127	Thank you, Madam President. To say that that's what you do every day, to comply with and enforce the Constitution, is to mock the Spaniards. I'll explain it to you very clearly. You have the Communists sitting on the Council of Ministers and you have the entire extreme separatist left out, and all of those together say openly, say openly, that they want to liquidate the Constitution. [[rumors]] That is the consequence of Sánchez's scam on the Spaniards, an insult to national dignity and a permanent attack on the rule of law. That is, for example, what is happening in Canet de Mar. That a five-year-old be harassed because his parents demand that at least 25% of the teaching time be in Spanish - in response to judgements that uphold his right - demonstrates the degradation of Sánchez and separatism. De Sánchez because, beyond vague lying statements like the ones he made this morning, he inhibits his duty to protect that child and to break the legal order, so as not to disturb the 'Ruffians' in turn. And of the Catalan Generalitat coup because it declares itself in rebellion before the courts and organizes a lynching of ferocious hatred to try with it to intimidate the assembly of Catalan society in case anyone also tries to claim that right. Look, it's a joke to see the Ombudsman whistle on this issue, or the paniaguado unions that are quiet going to show up on the arm of the coup mafia next Saturday. That is why, in short, I, on behalf of VOX today, demand the immediate application of 155 and the suspension of Catalan autonomy and I say to you that when VOX rules, which will be very soon, no one will prevent any Spanishman from studying in Spanish anywhere in the national territory. We are not going to consent, on behalf of millions of Spaniards, to you stealing our homeland, democracy and freedom, freedom, which is the Constitution, Minister of the Presidency. [[Applauds.-A honourable Member: Very well!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u128	Minister of the Presidency, Relations with the Courts and Democratic Memory.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u129	Thank you very much, Madam President. I see something altered in the wording of the question. I beg your serenity. On 31 October 1978, the Constitution was voted on in this House. Do you know how many members of the Socialist Party voted yes? Everyone. Do you know how many Communist Party deputies voted for the Constitution? Everyone. Do you know how many votes against the Constitution had? Six, five of which were from the People's Alliance, a formation to which you belonged at that time. [[Applauds]] The Constitution means equality between men and women, it means that no one can be discriminated against because of their sexual orientation, race, any personal condition, it means that the workers of this country have a decent salary and it means that there is protection of the environment, exactly what you reject and vote against in this House every day. [[Applauds]] And it also implies values, coexistence, democracy, pluralism, freedom of expression, true information, right-wing gentlemen, true information, and supposes - feel good - a social and democratic state of law. That's our Constitution. [[Applauds]] And you are continually sowing discord, chrispation, confrontation. I understand that on these Christmas dates many prizes are given, and you are competing very hard with the PP to win the'scenes 2021' award. [[Rumors]] But don't worry, that Spain that you sell doesn't exist, the Spain that exists is that of the first European country that receives European funds, because we comply, we are a government that complies, and that is Spain of the optimism that we represent. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF JOSÉ IGNACIO ECHÁNIZ SALGADO, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESION, WHICH FORMS THE MINISTER OF HEALTH: HOW MUCH NEW WORDS OF COLONAVIRUS MUST BE GONE IN SPAIN FOR THE GOVERNMENT TO APPROVE A LAW OF PANDEMIA? [[File number 180/000734]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u130	Question addressed to the Minister for Health. Question by Mr José Ignacio Echaniz Salgado, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u131	Thank you very much, President. Christmas is coming, we face an increase in incidence and the cases in children are again doubled, in one of those Spanish children who the Minister of Education is unable to defend and who leaves shamefully while opposing the opposition. [[Applauds.-A lady MP: Very bad!]] Minister, just give me one reason why, as in other countries around us, there is no pandemic law in Spain that protects citizens. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u132	Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u133	Thank you, Madam President. Your Honor, we will continue, as since we entered the pandemic, in accordance with existing legislation, giving a strategic response within the interterritorial council, a model that has been internationally recognized. That is why we do not need to, because we already have legislation in force. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u134	Mr. Echaniz
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u135	Madam Minister, the only reality is that we are running out of the Greek alphabet to name the new variants, which continue to appear new waves and that you will not have the courage to pass a law of pandemics. This is no longer just a problem of foresight, as the Vice-President of the Government, Yolanda Díaz, has pointed out, but it is a matter of leaving the Government to be held accountable. And why would the Government of Spain not want to set up a legal framework at the moment so that the autonomous communities can have clear where to go in making their decisions, when requested by the People's Party, when requested by the Supreme Court, when requested by the Council of State or 74% of the Spaniards? There are two options: that you do not want to work, that you do not want to legislate and that you have tired of being a minister - which may be, you look at your predecessor, Mr. Illa -, or what I believe at the moment, what is our hypothesis - most Spaniards think so - which are pride and pride that has brought us to this point. They do not want to give reason to the leader of the opposition, who has been asking for it for two years and who has offered an agreement in this regard; they do not want to recognize that a law of pandemics would solve this disguise that produces inequalities, before in the escalation and now in the infant vaccination or in the COVID passports. They do not have enough that all the autonomous communities where the People's Party governs have made effective decisions ahead of you. Minister, you're back late to save Christmas, because you haven't done your homework. Their pride in quinceañeros prevents them from seeing that the best thing for Spain is, once again, to listen to the People's Party. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u136	Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u137	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, since this pandemic began, as we told you, we have had health legislation, legislation in which we have also been incorporating, adapting and adopting new rules within the Council. But we have also done so in accordance with the territorial model and in accordance with the competences of the autonomous communities in the field of health; it is called, ladies and gentlemen, the rule of law and it is called the state of autonomy. Autonomy and law, law and autonomy; does the People's Party understand this? I think it is difficult for you to understand something at the starting point where we are, because you no longer understand yourselves, and if not to ask Mr Married about the management of the pandemic within the People's Party. Is there a model? We have a model that has been recognised by the WHO and the European Union. What is your model, Mr. Casado's model, Mrs. Ayuso's model or your model, which also has history in Castile-La Mancha? What's the model? [[Applauds]] I will tell you what ours is, ladies and gentlemen, and I tell you with all humility and determination of the Government's commitment to move forward and combat this pandemic in complicated times, there is nothing more to see about our European and international environment and our country. First, our model is based on the legislation we have had, which we have been adopting, but especially on the plans, strategies and joint and coordinated action of each and every health authority, including yours, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, including yours; and especially, ladies and gentlemen, prevention, anticipation - as we have done with the Omicron variant following the measures of the European Union - and vaccination. We are world leaders in vaccination, and I mean, today the vaccination of the children of this country begins from five to eleven years. Will you ever join up and stop putting sticks on the wheel, ladies? Is that so difficult to ask in a country situation that we are also proud of what we are doing? I don't think it's much to ask, but it's obvious that you can't count on it. With you or without you we will move forward, we will continue to protect the health of the Spanish and Spanish. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u138	We are now dealing with the appeals addressed to the Government. Urgent inquiry by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, so that the Government can explain the arbitrariness in the allocation of some items of the Recovery and Resilience Mechanism, as well as the delay in the actual execution of these European funds. For your defence, Mrs Rodríguez Herrer has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u139	Madam Vice-President, this question is for us to give explanations in Parliament, to give us explanations of an issue that is vital for Spain and the Spanish, for our present and, above all, for our future. [[The lady]] We all know the impact of the pandemic not only on human lives, with irreparable damage, but also on this economy, in the circumstances of many families and businesses, on many frustrated projects and hopes, with damage that should be repairable. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u140	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u141	And to that must contribute, to that was designed, the Mechanism of Recovery, Transformation and Resilience. Spanish GDP fell by 11% in 2020 and in the budgets for 2021 you estimated that this year we will grow by 9.8%, 7.2% trend and an additional 2.6% because of the impact of the mechanism's funds. Then I will comment on the correctness of these forecasts, but the fact is that the impact of the funds has been non-existent for many reasons, not only because of their very low level of implementation, which is also due to multiple causes. First, they designed a management procedure with serious governance problems, Royal Decree-Law 36/2020, which we voted against and it was better that it would not have gone ahead. Not only did they centralize decision-making at the top of the Government, but the only new body dealing with the autonomous communities, the Sectoral Conference of the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan, which was to - reproduce the explanatory statement - channel multi-level territorial governance and establish mechanisms and ways of cooperation and coordination in the implementation of the plan, has not been able to carry out its task due to the lack of a call from its president, the Minister of Finance. As a result, funds have been distributed at sectoral conferences of ministries without overall coordination and with pre-established and disparate criteria that have been adopted without prior consensus and by roll. Some have come to say: either accept it or run out of funds. The consequence, loss of effectiveness and inadequacy in many cases to the specific needs and circumstances of the communities. Secondly, as a result of the lack of contrast, they designed a plan that, although it has been approved by Europe, contains generic lines that at the time of its implementation are having or will have little success among its hypothetical beneficiaries, or will be impossible to comply with in the short time they have set for its implementation... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u142	Ladies and gentlemen, I beg your silence, please. There is a murmur that does not let the speaker hear.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u143	... as the affected sectors have been denouncing. For example, large funds for housing rehabilitation that, over time, due to a shortage of materials and a lack of interest from individuals, may remain unimplemented. In the same vein and with very little respect for the competence of the communities, they also highlight specific ideological programmes that aim to direct to the public services that can be provided in private public collaboration without the previous normative debate. For example, provision for public school from 0 to 3 years or provision for the construction of public centres for victims of gender-based violence. That is, you, or with officials, or with nothing. In addition, these types of projects will generate structural expenditure for the communities, which seems expressly prohibited by the European regulation. Support lines are also observed in different ministries with similar objectives. Aid, when designed under different conditions, will leave the least favourable; for example, all electricity consumption in agriculture. Similarly, the rigidity in the conditions set for the autonomous communities to grant the aid may lead to the non-implementation of the funds. Many, vice president - and I say this with disappointment - go the same way as Royal Decree-Law 5/2021, and look at what we told them. Some communities, in relation to this decree, have had to return 60% of the funds allocated to them after four vacant calls, i.e. unsuccessfully, and actually in their community they had companies that might need it. Thirdly, distributions are being observed outside sectoral conferences to related communities or with a certain plug from the same credit or for the same purpose as that previously distributed. We just saw it, we only saw it a couple of months ago in the employment funds. Also centralized expenditure, i.e. direct implementation of ministries - the so-called "investments" - which will hardly achieve the objectives pursued by the mechanism. A good example is the Ministry of Inclusion and Social Security's propaganda expenditure of €4 million to advertise minimum living income and public pensions. [[The Lord]] This, Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, has not been a mere relationship of distorted issues, but the reality of what we are experiencing with the little information we have and, moreover, according to the accounts of the General Intervention of the State with a month of lag, with a very low actual execution of the plan. In spite of the fact that, as of 31 October, only 33.54 per cent of the appropriations that had been budgeted - 8117 million - had been executed, most of which - 7593 million - had been sent to autonomous communities and local corporations, autonomous bodies and other public sector bodies, which in turn would have to make the appropriate tenders or distribute the allocated funds. In short, execution, bad. And I don't know why they say that we are the first - you said yesterday - because of this first delivery, with fifty-two milestones that they have sent to Europe, twenty-three are from 2020 - we already know that it can, but it is not execution of the plan - and of the twenty-nine of the year 2021 only two correspond to the third trimester of this year. That is, forty-nine are before the approval of the plan and many are strategies, plans, coming into force of normative projects that were already under way - the Education Act is a good example - and other similar ones. What we do not know is where the 10 billion actual expenditure that they have asked for Europe to pay us comes from. In the guts of his plan they appear as an effective expenditure to ask Europe for the 10 billion July 2020 of SEPI, but that has stuck it and they are unable to reach the companies that need it, not the suspiciously plugged again as Plus Ultra. Or the 7 billion Royal Decree-Law 5/2021, last March, which, as I said, is having serious enforcement problems. Do us the math, but do it for real, please. I was beginning this question by talking about growth and I think this year's double puncture has clear causes. The first, that of growth, which they called trend, from 7.2% to 4.6% - for keeping the Commission's last figure - i.e. with 36% puncture, is the expression of their inability - let me tell you - to manage the crisis we are experiencing. I know you are going to talk to me about the same thing that you have said to your spokesman in the Commission, but you really know that this is not the case. The second is the null and void effect of the funds, because in reality they have not been implemented by the interference in their centralization, by their inadequacy and by their impossible procedures. It's over. Yesterday, at the press conference following the Council of Ministers, he drew his chest and said that the autonomous communities had been allocated funds in recent months for a total of 11 billion. I do not know how you will be accounting, the allocation is not an accounting concept; of course the autonomous communities you have pointed out say that that has not happened to them. That, Madam Vice President, is not a real execution. It also said that 73% of the funds have been authorised and 64.5 % committed. I am not going to bore the audience with what phases A and D of budget execution are, but that will include those 11 billion if they are accounting for it well. In addition, neither A nor D are actual execution nor impact on activity. For this reason, because of the mess they are having, today they do not have the app mounted to know how they are executing the autonomous communities. Because the funds are an opportunity that the Spaniards should not miss, because they are from the Kingdom of Spain - terminology, in case one seems wrong, from the Commission itself - and the Kingdom of Spain we are the Spaniards, in spite of some of those who sit in these seats and who, by the way, then ask for their corresponding allocations well. They are of the Spanish and not of the Government of Spain. That is why we are doing this inquiry today, in the hope that, once and for all, we will be given real and adjusted information corresponding to what we are asking for. For this reason, in the subsequent motion, we will require the Minister of Finance to report monthly to the Commission, subject to the transmission of the necessary information, so that we can carry out its analysis. It was done in the Health Commission with the minister of the branch. We believe that the situation is serious enough for the government to inform this House through the minister that it has the competence and responsibility for its follow-up. By the way, yesterday he also said that they would soon carry out the extension of the plan for the period 2023-2026 in the part financed with loans to be returned. I would remind you that elections are taking place in 2023, that the plan brings new structural reforms and investments to Europe, which must have a sustained impact over time and must not do so alone. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u144	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] I now give the floor, on behalf of the Government, to the First Vice-President and Minister for Economic Affairs and Digital Transformation. First Vice-President and Minister for Economic Affairs and DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION : Thank you very much, President. [[Calvino Santamaría]] Mrs Rodríguez, the truth is that this morning we are meeting again, one more week, with the attitude of the People's Party, which from the beginning it does is to criticize and try to cast doubt and bad image and boycott - why not say as it is - one of the most important projects that our country has, an absolutely historic opportunity that we cannot let go, a country project that challenges us all, that has to mobilize all the social actors, all the political actors, all the companies and all the citizens of our country. I shall refer to seven points in order to articulate the answer to your intervention. First of all, on the economic situation, I have already had the opportunity this morning to express to Mrs Gamarra the positive prospects that all agencies have with regard to the evolution of our economy, that recovery that goes from less to more, and the prospect of sustained growth in the coming years in our country. One of the reasons for these positive prospects stems precisely from the European response to this crisis, so different from the previous financial crisis, that it is already allowing us to have a very different exit from the previous financial crisis. In addition to short-term support measures, there is no doubt that the European Recovery Plan, the European funds Next Generation, represent a perspective and create positive expectations for economic operators and, from this point of view, the Recovery Plan is already having a positive impact on the evolution of the Spanish economy, as it is having on the whole of the European economy. In any case, Mrs Rodríguez, as you have also mentioned fiscal developments, let me say that all the bodies agree that Spain is having an appropriate fiscal policy. In fact, we have been guided by that responsible fiscal policy for three and a half years, and several agencies are predicting a more positive evolution of the public deficit, a government deficit in 2021 lower than planned by the government, which confirms our prudence in terms of economic forecasts and budgetary management, which I know is a very important issue for you. Secondly, there is the Recovery Plan. As I have told you, the deployment of the plan has been taking place almost since July last year, since European leaders agreed to create these European funds. We have been working very intensively with the European Commission, within Spain, implementing the entire governance framework in order to have as effective an investment deployment as possible, driving in parallel the most important reforms. As you know, the plan is structured into four cross-cutting axes: green, digital, social and territorial cohesion and gender equality, and ten lever policies that articulate these reforms and investments. I am surprised, Your Honor, that you question some of the investments contained in the plan. Yes, Your Honor, investments, because what you call spending when you talk about education from 0 to 3 years, when you talk about strengthening the education system and vocational training, all the agencies and we in the government consider it to be investment in the future, it is an investment in the new generations, it is an investment in that social lift that is education and therefore a key to the future growth of our country. In the schedule of the plan, which you know, the approval by the European institutions took place on 13 July this year - let's not forget -; in August there was already the first payment of 9 billion pre-financing; Spain It has been the first country to request disbursements on 11 November after the signing of this operational agreement with the European Commission, and we are also driving the process so that, as soon as possible, those 10 billion euros will reach us. No one can doubt that Spain is the country that is at the forefront in the deployment of the Recovery Plan. On 3 December, the President of the European Commission herself made public her preliminary positive assessment of compliance with these milestones, which is good news. It seems to bother them, but the truth is that Spain is the country that is opening the way and is making the most progress in the deployment of the investments of the Recovery Plan. A third set of issues that you have addressed concerns the implementation process and governance. The truth is that we have launched - led, of course, by the Ministry of Finance, with intensive work with the General Intervention of State Administration and with the participation also of all anti-fraud bodies - a comprehensive system of information and control that allows us to avoid, to the greatest extent possible, fraud, corruption, conflict of interest and double funding, with three levels of action to combat such situations in the field of public resource management. I suppose you will very much agree that we have control mechanisms that allow us to ensure that these public resources are allocated where they should be. The fact is that within the governance of the plan a set of sectoral conferences is planned. Several meetings of the Sectoral Conference of the Recovery Plan led by the Minister of Finance have already been held, but even more so, sectoral conferences of each of the ministries, in which the agreement with the autonomous communities - as you must know, Your Honor - and with the participation also of the Spanish Federation of Municipalities and Provinces has taken place. U, what a pleasure, all of a sudden, the moment of silence in the Chamber, because I was screaming, the truth! In addition to these meetings of the sectoral conferences at which, as I said, agreements are reached for the allocation of resources and the implementation of the plan by the autonomous communities, we have a specific table for coordination with the social partners and parliamentary control mechanisms, Your Honor. As you know, because I see that you followed yesterday's press conference, we agreed on a first report on the implementation of the plan, which will be published shortly, which I will send you immediately and which can serve as a basis for the appearance that is scheduled for the Joint Congress-Senary Committee for European Affairs on 20 December next. I compare, Your Honor, every quarter, as provided for in the Royal Decree-Law, precisely to give you detailed account of the implementation of the Recovery Plan. It is an effort of transparency that is reinforced by the set of reports that are published on the website dedicated to the recovery plan: recovery plan.gob.es, on social networks and all the mechanisms and acts in which we are participating so that information reaches all Spanish citizens, all companies and, in particular, small and medium-sized enterprises. Fourthly, you have spoken, Your Honor, of investments. Thanks to the General State Budgets for 2021, which you did not support, we have been able to start channelling the transfers of the plan. In particular, the EUR 24 billion provided for in the State General Budgets. The honourable Member is well aware of the different procedures and stages of implementation and understands perfectly when we say that 73% of the budget already has authorisation and approximately 65% is committed. The main investment programmes have been launched by the General Government of the State, three major strategic projects, known as PERTE, for the electric and connected vehicle, state-of-the-art health and even yesterday renewable energy, storage and green hydrogen, have been authorized and agreed upon, and a significant allocation and transfer of funds has been made to the autonomous communities. This is the fifth point to which I would like to refer. Your Honor, who followed the press conference yesterday, will have had the opportunity to see the map that we have published and that we will regularly update with information on the allocation of funds to the Autonomous Communities, which, as I explained, is both the allocation agreed at the sectoral conferences, which has then been reflected in the corresponding actions of the Council of Ministers and transfers, as well as other territorialized agreements, for example, supplementary science programmes articulated by agreements between the Ministry of Science and the Autonomous Communities. [[shows the document]] Frankly, I am surprised that the distribution of these funds that is agreed with the Autonomous Communities is being questioned, and even more so that the pilot employment project is being discussed. We are talking about a set of pilot projects that have been launched on the basis of objective criteria corresponding to EUR 2 million. The autonomous community that has protested most or publicly questioned this issue is Andalusia, which received 280 million euros in 2020, recording the lowest execution of the State in the field of active employment policies, being one of the autonomous communities that has a higher level of unemployment. Right now, this autonomous community has been endowed with EUR 100 million for active policies, and I sincerely hope that these resources will be used well, but it is clear that we cannot question the entire allocation of these EUR 11 billion on the basis of a pilot project that also meets objective criteria. In fact, within this distribution of funds that has been agreed at the sectoral conferences and that is underway in the autonomous communities, I would like to point out that Andalusia is the autonomous community that has the largest allocation of funds - approximately €19 billion - followed by Catalonia, with €1.5 billion, and Madrid, with €12 billion, so I don't know where a reference can come from to a supposed favouritism or action directed towards the autonomous communities, which are many in this country, currently governed by the Socialist Party. I would like to conclude, Your Honor, with a conclusion concerning the situation of the Spanish economy and the prospects for 2022, to which you have also referred. We are pushing for structural reforms, reforms that have been delayed for many years and that are fundamental to modernizing the Spanish economy and achieving a recovery that is strong and sustained over time to address this process of modernization and structural change that allows us to climb into the new green and digital economy, to protect social and territorial cohesion and gender equality. The prospects for 2022 are for us to reach the cruising speed of the deployment of the recovery plan, and that will be thanks to the General Budgets of the State for 2022 which, once again, its political party is not supporting despite knowing that they are absolutely essential to continue channeling and deploying this ambitious programme of key investments for the future of our country. We will continue with a determined policy of structural reform, with a policy marked by transparency, communicating to all citizens how our country's economic situation is and what are the fundamental elements for being able to participate in this historic project, which is the Recovery Plan. Because, Your Honor, it is a country plan, in fact, which requires not only the determination of the Government, but also the support of the citizens as a whole, of the large and small enterprises of our country, of the fabric of self-government and of the political parties as a whole. Your Honor, you said something was pinching and I believe that the only thing that is pinching is your catastrophic and negative view of the greatest opportunity our country has. I hope that as soon as we can resume a dialogue that is constructive and allows us to move forward for the benefit of the Spanish citizens. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u145	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Rodríguez Herrer has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u146	Thank you, President. Vice President, no attitude of bad image or boycott. We're not boycotting anything; we're asking for concrete, accurate information and not - it's going to allow me - beautiful slides, as you say. By the way, yesterday afternoon you hung this on the networks, the implementation report of the recovery plan. [[shows a document]] Maybe it's what he's been referring to and he's been following to prepare this inquiry, and I'm going to make some comments, but maybe we could have received it here, which is everyone's house. First of all, I was not talking about structural spending saying that investments were not investments. I meant that, as the autonomous communities are being forced to build something to start it, or they stay closed houses, which after that they have are okupas - which, perhaps, even suits some of those who are here -, or they are going to generate structural spending for the autonomous communities. I am not saying in terms of investment or not investment, but that it is an expenditure that will be repeated over time in successive budgets. Second, the LOST. All right. They advertise them like the electric car, which they also told who they were giving it to and then realized that it had to be competitive, that they have not yet concluded and that companies still do not know how they are going to get there. We will see when they arrive, because if there is a reality that the plan is not being implemented, if there is a reality that you have placed 24 billion - or 21 000 - in the 2021 budget, which you said was going to represent almost 3 points of growth of our GDP, and nothing has been implemented. Third: governance. Governance is not only the control mechanisms, but also the decision-making processes when we have a complex State like ours. And that's what's not anywhere. Look, Madam Vice-President, you do not know - you are not only the Economic Vice-President and the Minister of Economy, you are also the Chair of the Delegated Committee on Economic Affairs and you have clear competence over this - that committee with the Autonomous Communities has met three times: one to put the regulation, one by Zoom to say that the regulation was not valid and the third with the Secretary of State for Budgets for nothing And the Autonomous Communities, with their responsible advisers, would like to make a global decision about what is going on in their communities. [[applause]] Not split in the mixed commissions, where in one way or another the corresponding councillors - I will allow - take them to the garden. As far as the pilot projects are concerned, the objective reasons, as I know, are not in competition. And from funds that give for competencies that have decentralized or assigned the autonomous communities, which are almost all of them in the plan, many funds are left centralized that we do not yet know how they will be implemented. We ask the Minister of Finance to come, because she is competent to monitor the accounting and actual execution of the funds and we want to know what they are spent on. Then we will ask how they are spent, because if we do not know what they are spent on, we will hardly be able to follow up. And that is a clear responsibility of a responsible opposition - worth redundancy - which is who we are. And if you are referring to this, to these two ministerial orders, to the movement of management and the accounting of funds, which are in September, no deadline has been met to make them effective. [[sample two documents]] Like I said, with that mess you're having, that's how we go. It is a lot of money, although they have already saved themselves well that in this year's budget law they made an amendment to the General Budget Law to take away the unexecuted from this year to next year. They're financing it for us. This does not deserve any reproach, but the reproach is: if you have not been able to execute this year, will you be able to execute next year that of next year and that which hangs on this year? I don't think so, and of course, we're not going anywhere. To the Spaniards, in the end, this is not going to bring us the bill that should bring us. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u147	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] To conclude the debate, I have the floor on behalf of the Government, the First Vice-President and Minister for Economic Affairs and Digital Transformation.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u148	Thank you, President. Thank you, Mrs. Rodriguez. In fact, your inquiry allows me to explain where we are and what prospects we have in our country. Unfortunately, despite my explanation, you continue with an approach that is always negative or destructive; and I do not understand it, because I think we have many reasons to be proud of our country. We have a country that leads vaccination at the global level, as the Minister of Health has just told us; a country that has responded exemplaryly in an unprecedented situation; a government that has led an effective health, economic and social response, thinking of the most vulnerable, and a country that is just at the forefront of the deployment of these innovative European mechanisms, as recognized by all our institutions and all our partners. That is, Spain is a country that receives the affection, respect and appreciation of all our partners, but has an opposition that sees only negative elements. I will mention three elements in a brief reply to your speech. First of all, as I said, after almost two years since the beginning of the pandemic we realize that the measures we have been taking, and which have been validated by this Congress, have been positive to protect the productive fabric, the incomes of families and employment. We have avoided the destruction of more than three million jobs and a fall in GDP that would have exceeded 25%. We have taken effective measures, as demonstrated by the dynamism of economic recovery and, in particular, job creation. This is due to the prudence with which we have acted from the government and to a coherent economic policy for more than three and a half years which must give us confidence for the future. If we have been able to overcome this situation, how are we not going to be able to face the challenges of the future and even more to take advantage of an opportunity as extraordinary as the Recovery Plan is? Of course we'll take advantage of it. I have absolute confidence in this country's ability to take full advantage of it, because Spain is an example of success in taking advantage of the opportunities that have given us in the past with European funds. Second point. Recovery is under way, it is very strong and the Recovery Plan will play a growing role in that economic momentum. We hope to reach the cruising speed by 2022, when investments of almost EUR 27 billion are expected from the funds of the plan. You just need to join this momentum, because the General Budgets of the State for 2022 are absolutely fundamental to channelling European funds, as have the General Budgets of the State for 2021. I am surprised that you are questioning that there is a low execution when you do not support the State's General Budgets so that we can carry out these investments. Finally, it is late and I am sorry, but the General State Budgets for 2022 will allow us to achieve that cruising speed when payments for all the programmes we have launched this year are implemented and implemented and implemented on the ground, with a very important degree of implementation and commitment, bearing in mind that the plan was approved in July of this year. Thirdly, we have paved the way for a new process by leading the deployment of the recovery plan within the European Union. This leadership position is being recognized by all institutions and investors, who trust our country. Spain is the first country to have launched the process of distributing transfers to European funds, as President Von der Leyen and Paolo Gentiloni have pointed out. Your Honor, we are in a new economic cycle and we have the opportunity to make it an economic cycle marked by the creation of quality jobs, taking full advantage of the opportunities for a new green and digital economy, strengthening our country's social and territorial cohesion and advancing gender equality. It seems to me to be an absolutely exciting project in which we should all be together. As soon as that report is published - what you have seen is a powerpoint and the detailed report we are going to publish in the next few hours - I will send it to you and, on this basis, I hope that we can start a more constructive dialogue that will allow the People's Party to join this positive phase so important for the history of our country, because I believe that we all have to be in the same direction right now, as I always say, for the good of the Spanish people. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u149	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u150	We continue with the motion resulting from the urgent interpellation of the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress on Government Policy on the Transport of Goods by Road. For the author group of the initiative, and for the defence of the motion, Mr Delgado Arce has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u151	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the People's Party is a party with a government vocation, which has had that responsibility in this democracy, which governs in many autonomous communities and which aspires and hopes that our country will go well, that our economy will be prosperous and that the problems will be solved. We cannot agree at all with the self-congratulation of the members of the Government - as we have just heard - who want to present us with a Spain where the street is happy, where there are no problems and where the opposition that denounces acts in an antipatriotic way. It's not like that. The People's Parliamentary Group is bringing to this House today the problem of a sector which is now in a clear stage of demand and with a stoppage of the transport announced for the next few days. I am talking about the road freight transport sector, which I do not have to discover is a strategic sector for our country's economic activity and which many of us value even more at the pandemic stage because we saw that our establishments were never left out of supply because of their work. On 10 November, the National Road Transport Committee called for this stoppage; it called for this stoppage or stoppage because its demands and the commitments that the Government had made with them in talks already since last year are not materializing. It is now being negotiated and I hope that agreement can be reached, because unemployment is not good for anyone, and less for transporters, who are not going to do so either, but because of non-compliance. But, if that agreement is reached, it must be on the basis that its just and legitimate demands are accepted, and many of them are the ones that we put today in the motion that we bring to this plenary of Congress. Firstly, we call for the commitments that had been made in July 2020 to be fulfilled. Then, the former Secretary of State for Transport committed himself to a number of issues that I will now cite and none of them has been fulfilled. Perhaps one of the most important is to address the problem of loading and unloading by drivers, knowing that these operations do not have to be on behalf of the carrier, although in practice they are obliged to carry out these activities. This limitation and prohibition has recently been introduced in the neighbouring country, Portugal. The government said that there would be a regulatory text on this matter by December 2020, but this is December 2021 and none of that has happened. We also propose to address the problem of waiting times for carriers on logistics platforms, which in some cases can reach up to five hours, causing them great inefficiencies and damage. Ladies and gentlemen, we also bring the request that the Eurovignette should not be implemented to professional carriers without the consensus of the sector. This is a commitment made with them in writing, and what we find is that the Spanish Government transfers such a decision to Brussels as if it were already a fait accompli. There is an appeal for consensus, but there is no talk with the main opposition party or any of the other political parties; there is no talk with the sectors, there is no talk with the autonomous communities that have roads and highways; there is no talk with the local authorities. We don't know if the toll will be fixed, if it's for miles... Nor do we know how the peripheral regions of Spain will be treated. Those who speak to them are Galician and it is not the same to have the territory on a corner of the peninsula and to have to travel all over Spain to reach the French and European borders than to be stuck right to them. There are many incognitas and professional transport calls for a rectification on this issue. We are also dealing with our motion to talk about the issue that is perhaps affecting the sector today in a more serious way, which is the need to promote effective measures related to the application of a clause to review the price of transport in the light of changes in the price of diesel, a clause already referred to in Article 38 of the Land Freight Contract Act. Ladies and gentlemen, the rise in oil prices has recently been excessive. You think that in what is going on in the year the fuel, the diesel car, started being at 1.09 euros per litre and the last average price of November is 1.38; that is, it has risen 30 cents per litre. What does this mean? For the carriers are being broken up their operating account, because the operating costs derived from the fuels are almost one third of their costs. Therefore, if the shipper does not absorb a part or the integrity of this cost, really the carrier is in a limit situation. We want an agreement and a revision of this clause because it is fair to seek a solution. The alternative of saying that this comes from outside and that there is nothing to do does not seem to us responsible when the governments of other European countries, having the same problem, are seeking solutions. We also call in our motion for action for the immediate return of those amounts derived from the health cent that are still pending, because, indeed, there are some that are pending; for the mass and size regulations not to be approved without consensus with the road haulage sector; for the issue to be addressed of the need to build new safe rest areas for transporters, and not only to create new ones, but to modify and adapt existing ones. Ladies and gentlemen, many of these measures have to be taken as a matter of urgency, and for that we have the mechanism of the decree-law. Others may expect regulatory development through legislative procedure, but there are some that are inescapable. We have read with interest the initiative that the VOX Group has put forward on this subject. It includes much of the measures that we propose, but also some others that, of course, we believe can enrich our motion and, therefore, we are prepared to promote a compromise agreement. I conclude, President, by calling from the rostrum on the Government, please, to pay attention to the problems of the road haulage sector. They reach an agreement and meet their just demands. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u152	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the defence of the amendment tabled, I have the floor, by the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mrs De las Heras Fernández. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u153	Thank you very much, Mr President. In Spain 95% of freight transport is carried out by road and generates more than 500,000 jobs. The role of this sector is of fundamental strategic importance and must therefore be a priority for this Government. But far from it, they seem to want to take him out. They left it out of the aid for the transformation of fleets that they do grant to other vehicles driven by identical energies. [[Rumors]] They left him out of direct support for corporate solvency in response to the pandemic. Aid for the abandonment of the profession is reduced by EUR 16,000. They owe them EUR 200 million for the outstanding amounts of the health cent. [[Rumors]] It is due to a globalist agenda that reflects the Europeanist impositions of an energy policy that harms our transporters, with unorthodox increases in oil prices and sanctions such as the premium for excess CO2 emissions. [[Rumors]] They want to implement a payment system on all high-capacity roads in Spain, not to mention... [[Rumors]] Mr. President, could you...?
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u154	Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet. If you have anything to comment on, you can do it outside.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u155	I know that some Members of the People's Parliamentary Group are not interested in this because they only want to release their speech, but we would like to see it at least. [[Applauds]] ... not to mention the regulation of masses and dimensions or the Eurovignette as a toll on heavy trucks. Furthermore, the problem of loading and unloading remains unresolved and the safety of our carriers is forgotten. Only thirty-seven parking lots are qualified as safe. There has been an increase in the theft of cargo, the number of police stations on board trucks and attacks on drivers. We must protect our carriers, Spain cannot stay in line at the level of protection. During the pandemic they led 20% more and rested 20%; they put the supply of the Spaniards - and we did not lack anything - to their own safety, in deplorable conditions: however closed, without restaurants or open bars to be able to have a coffee that kept them awake and alert or places where to clean up or shower. [[Applauds]] They don't deserve to go in fear of being mugged or having to fear for stealing merchandise. And it was then, just declared the state of alarm, when the VOX Parliamentary Group presented the first initiative to improve their conditions and solve the abandonment situation that the sector was suffering from by the government. We were the first to submit a GNP and, to date, we have recorded numerous initiatives, including eight non-law proposals. And what does the government do? On 23 July, the Ministry of Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda sent a letter to the National Road Transport Committee in which it undertook to study much of the complaints in the sector. Since deception is the seal of this Government, following the announcement of the call for an end to the activity of the sector and with the apparent reason to resolve the situation, the ministry held on 19 November a meeting spreading out to the public at large that progresses in the dialogue with the National Road Transport Committee, when it is certain that on 2 December the said committee informed of the complete rejection of the document proposed for considering not only that it does not respond to the request of the sector, but that it is even more restrictive than the commitment made on 23 July. John Ignatius, 42 years old and a trucker since the 21st, says: 'I had never experienced a situation as bad as that of today nor had I seen these prices in diesel. ... You can take one, two or three months... but the longer you can't take it. ... If you just find obstacles and taxes, you don't deserve to have the company, you don't deserve to work. That's why a lot of people are closing up and leaving their trucks. It's unsustainable. It seems that this is the purpose of this Government: to put an end to employment, to self-employment, to SMEs, to jobs, to productive fabric, and to obey a European agenda by imposing sanctions, tolls and taxes on the back of our road hauliers. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group, your will is good, but your initiative, as we have already mentioned, is insufficient. They forgot about the abandonment aid, the 200 million owed to them or the regulations of the masses and dimensions. There is a need for a national plan to boost the road freight network, which strengthens rural Spain, removes administrative burdens, taxes and taxes and supports national products. That is why we are glad that you have accepted much of our amendment, which has made it possible to reach a compromise that corrects these shortcomings, and that is why we will support the initiative. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u156	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Mazón Ramos has the floor in position-setting.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u157	Good morning. Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are obviously faced with a difficult and very complicated moment for a number of reasons, all of which were discussed here today, two weeks ago in the People's Parliamentary Group and also in the Minister's reply. The fact is that the four main points of the motion have very different characteristics, both in the problem they raise and in the way they deal with it. That is why we cannot share it in its entirety. Matters relating to contracts, whether commercial or labour contracts, are very difficult to resolve by ordinary law, because the freedom of the parties to a market society cannot be abolished, only for social reasons of general interest. Obviously, there is a problem in the working conditions of many road haulage drivers, and this must be addressed, but the Government has already advanced that it is willing to do so within the legal framework in which we are and yesterday it was negotiating a solution with the transporters. Also related to this is the issue of rest areas, which also seems to be moving forward. The price of fuels and the application of price review mechanisms is also a sensitive issue if imposed by obligation, because it is already known that in bilateral relations on most occasions the changes that give rise to benefits for some entail losses for others and sometimes change the tornadoes. I think it's possible if you act intelligently, the same thing that happened yesterday with the Public Sector Contracts Act to unlock the public work that's stopped right now. Finally, in the matter of payment for the use of the highways - tolls or whatever they want to be called - my party is totally against this implementation. It would be a step backwards in the right to mobility and the use of something that is the true essence of the public since time immemorial. The minister has pledged not to take this step without a broad consensus and I think it will be very difficult to achieve it. From the point of view of the Regionalist Party of Cantabria, this motion is very good for us to move our position to the government and recommend that it not get into gardens where it can only go wrong. It has already happened to him on some occasion; let us remember the VAT of the Autonomous Communities and some other issues. Therefore, we are not going to support the motion, but we want to make our position clear in all the elements that make it up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u158	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the same parliamentary group, Mr García Adanero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u159	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the spokesman for the People's Group said that he urged the Government to take note, to take action. I don't know which government, because to urge the government they would have to be here at some session and not just to applaud the leader. I believe that when the matter is important - they are all important, because at the time when any group presents an initiative is because it understands that it is important for those who voted for it - it would be a show of respect on the part of the executive. It is true that, in that race of destroying collectives that the Government has, a collective to destroy in the coming days is that of road transport professionals, and we are seeing it these days. Issues that affect them greatly have already been mentioned here: the loading and unloading of vehicles themselves, of trucks; the deorbited price of diesel without compensation for it; all the debt that the Government has accumulated and does not pay to them either, or the threat of tolling on all roads. Remember that of: With me the tolls will be removed, etc. But let's see how all citizens are going to have to pay tolls for using any road and, in this case, transport professionals will logically be much more affected because they use it every day. It's a hard-working collective, as everyone knows. It was very complicated work and the Government, rather than facilitating its working conditions, was doing something to undermine them and not to allow agreements to be reached at the negotiating table. We therefore hope that, in the end, their demands will be met, because the road freight transport sector is a key sector for the Spanish economy. They are people who, of course, do a fundamental job every day for all citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u160	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Barandiaran Benito has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u161	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. President. Mr Delgado, the possibility of setting tolls on the roads is no longer an inevitable issue, but that which you and I have also spoken of in the presence of the former Minister Íñigo de la Serna when you were ruling in this country. The possibility of applying that principle derived from Community legislation of 'who uses, pays' or 'who pollutes, pays' is an axiom that has not only been recognised but is implemented in most European countries. The last of these has been Belgium and in other European countries, such as Lithuania, Romania or Denmark, what is being done is simply to change the rate by time for the rate per tranche, but this is a fact that is already absolutely indisputable, to say the least. What we are talking about here is not so much tolls, but another issue - the necessary background to this issue - which is the maintenance of roads, how we pay those roads. And we also know that there is not only the question of maintaining roads, because you are directing this motion precisely to the transport sector and it is precisely a question of improving transport activity, that it is not an absolutely unbearable burden for the transport sector. It has to be borne in mind that the estimated deficit in road maintenance - you will remember; not that of the investment needed every year, but the deficit of what has not been invested in the roads so far - is around EUR 2 billion and, although it is true that it is something that affects us all, it affects the transport sector in particular. One thing should also be remembered: this is an essential and even decisive sector, rather than the transport sector itself, it is generally the citizens who are interested in maintaining roads as fundamental elements. Moreover, it should be remembered that the use of these roads, from the legal point of view, is a special use not only derived from the Community law, but also from the Spanish law, which is why it is appropriate and logical to establish fees or tolls, associated with that special use. A second point that needs to be taken into account is that this improvement in the state of the roads resulting from good investment and maintenance, which is substantially improved and which benefits the transport sector in particular. We must add something else, in principle - and we must remember this - the directive does not impose a toll on the carrier, but on the cargo, that is to say the shipper. If necessary, the Government can be asked to legislate to ensure that these costs are transferred to the shipper and that it is not the carriers who are responsible for them, and this is not in conflict with sustainability. What's a charger doing? It will always prefer that a carrier travels on roads in conditions and that it contaminates less and, therefore, that the cost is lower if the tariff is modulated according to, for example, the pollution emitted by a vehicle. That is where the Government must be asked to work, to enable tolls to be modulated according to the pollution of the vehicle and also according to the need for road maintenance. Because this must also be taken into account, these tolls serve to balance the environmental balance. Finally, because I don't have much time left either, there is one aspect we can agree on. You have made reference to another added element, that of tax pricing from the point of view of returning the costs that are charged to the transport sector, and we can agree on that; but there is one where we can agree not only because we say so, but because we have put it into practice, and it is the promotion of secure parking so that carriers can carry out their work under optimal conditions. In fact, you may know him, Gipuzkoa has been a pioneer territory. I am a Member of Parliament for Gipuzkoa and I can tell you that the Gipuzkoa Provincial Council has built what is called the Integral Transport Centre, in which professionals and companies in the sector and logistics will have 525 secure, protected and connected places for their vehicles and goods; it is located on that trans-European highway which is the E-70, AP-8 and AP-1, near the border of Hendaya or Biriatou, with services, showers, laundries, supermarket, etc. This involves a number of amenities that will help to dignify the lives of workers in the sector and the sustainability of the sector itself. And I'll be right back. There are three reasons why we have decided to implement the policies of payment for use and payment for pollution: one, economic reasons; two, budgetary reasons; and three, environmental reasons. This must therefore be understood as an exercise of responsibility, first of all, because in Gipuzkoa, Bizkaia, Álava and Navarra we are the outlaws who build and maintain the roads, but also because the budgetary balance that is needed also requires a firmness and a determination of what the revenues will be, from these points of view. In that sense and for these reasons, Mr Delgado, I cannot support your motion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u162	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr López-Bas Valero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u163	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Delgado, once again we have an initiative, in this case the Group of the European People's Party, which refers to the great wave of uncertainty to which this Government is subjecting us. In this case, moreover, by omission, for not having done anything for a long time in the face of a problem that exists and that you have reported perfectly. If yesterday we denounced from this rostrum that the system of payment for the use of motorways and motorways seemed to us above all discriminatory, this is already one more demeanor and is one more step. Because in the case of transport not only will it be done by purely territorial criteria, that is to say, they will be removed or tolled according to which motorways or what motorways in any part of Spain, but now it will be done by sectors. That is to say, it is now the transport sector that will have its own specific system - it seems to be - of tolling or payment for use in the face of private use by the rest of the citizens. It seems that this government does not remember what it has been - and you have said it has been - in the year 2020. It seems that we have already forgotten that a sector essential for the maintenance of the economy in Spain has been precisely that of transport, which has managed to keep the goods, the raw materials, coming to any point in the Spanish geography despite the restrictions of mobility, despite the economic stoppage and in the face of the problems caused by the pandemic. And here the question is: What has this government done to respond to the demands of the sector? And the answer is that you have done nothing; nothing, because, as you also recalled, it was in February 2020 when the sector already sent you its decalogue of measures necessary for transport, which also came years ago even. And the government has since done all it has done is throw out balloons, make excuses for not making decisions, look away as every week the fuels continue to rise in price, while the economic situation really does not improve for families and businesses - tell us what they tell us - and especially when the sector is seeing itself increasingly impotent to go out with their vehicles on the road and do not only their work, but that social function that transport has now assumed. His motion calls for a network of rest areas certified as safe, and this links with that proposal of Citizens of a national network of infrastructures where these ancillary and auxiliary facilities are perfectly planned and carried out with criteria of effectiveness. We spoke again - we did it yesterday and we have commented - not to implement a model of payment for use by means of a vignette for transporters. Look, I would tell you here what the government would have to do is to appoint a minister of transport of the Basque Nationalist Party, because in the face of no model and only measures thrown into the air like probe balloons or small leaks to see what we think about the subject of tolls or payments for use, the Basque Nationalist Party is the only one that defends a model here. It may seem better, worse, dull, acceptable or at least questionable or debatable, but, listen, put a minister of the Basque Nationalist Party to carry transport so that at least you have a position on payment for use and let's start discussing which system we want. And above all, stop lying to the Spaniards about that issue that when they're in government, yes; when they're in opposition, no. What gives us a doubt is his request that the Government rectify and forward the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan to Europe. It is about getting the funds in, not putting any more obstacles to getting the funds in; we are not giving the Government any more opportunities so that what it has done wrong can do even worse. We would have wanted to participate in his day in the decision of the funds; we would have even wanted to participate in his control, something that avoided VOX in his day and that I will not tire of remembering. But if you've already screwed up on one occasion, let's not give the government new opportunities to do whatever it wants when it wants to. After all, when they have already done so, as for example in Andalusia. This government has a commitment, it has communicated it to Europe, and what it has to do is comply with it. Let him face his responsibility and then, if he has not fulfilled or has not reached where he said he had to fulfil, let him explain it. Evidently, what is clear is that we are not going to bet on either wonderful false scenarios or apocalypse of the end times, as we have been told at some point since their stands. I believe that it must be recognized that the transport sector is not only stronger - like Spanish society, and here too it has been said - that this government, but above all it is much more necessary. If there is one thing that is not necessary, it is a Government as harmful as we have today, and it will be up to us to fulfil the part of the responsibility that they lack. We will support your motion anyway. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u164	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Granollers Cunillera has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u165	Thank you, President. Bon dia, deputies and deputies. We usually say that someone has a fish memory when we mean that they have little memory. It should be stressed that a recent investigation into the short-term memory of these animals suggests that they recall specific events and some completely erase them from their minds. They always remember those who are useful to them to survive. Finally, we understand what happens to the People's Group bench, which tries to survive by obviating everything that it constantly denied when it ruled. I will remind you of what has happened in the last few years in the state, especially when you were ruling. First of all, in Catalonia we live with high capacity roads built and managed by private companies - I remind you - that you saw very well. Years and years of paying tolls to these private companies with amortized concessions and for a single purpose: to make these investments more profitable. Secondly, the historical lack of State investment in infrastructure on such fundamental issues as the Mediterranean corridor, the development of roads, investments and maintenance in the updating of the railway network. And, thirdly, and the most embarrassing for all - less for you, of course - the rescue of the toll freeways in Madrid, some radial freeways that were supposedly built to decongest the traffic in Madrid, even though they did not interest anyone, assuming the citizens, and without you at that time at all, the clauses of these concessions mattered. The state had to pay more than EUR 5 billion with taxpayers' money - these that you now defend too - and the result of its efforts is an unbalanced system that burdens citizens and does not reverse the improvement of sustainable mobility. We now have the opportunity to decide what that future should be like on the high-capacity tracks, their maintenance and their financing. On the payment system for high-capacity road networks, we are in favour, yes, as the use and maintenance of public infrastructure, not to continue with the model of speculation and expoliation to which we have so far been subjected with its motorways, and, of course, managed from the territories and with the consensus of the users, respecting one of the most elementary principles of international environmental law, which is the polluter pays. Our group calls for sustainable mobility, prioritizing clean mobility and more public transport. On the other hand - and listen carefully, ladies and gentlemen of the Government - remember the mandate of the European Union for the 2030 Horizon in relation to the transport of goods: it is necessary to get a 50 % transfer from the road to the railway on journeys of more than three hundred kilometres. Of the countries of the European Union, you know that the Spanish state is currently the territory with the least modal quota. On the problem of the transport sector, labour reforms are obviously urgently needed, because we must tackle the problem of loading and unloading, an abuse of large companies to the detriment of workers in the transport sector. In most cases, the transporters, after long driving days, must carry out the loading and unloading of the goods when arriving at their destination, but the problem does not remain here, but they arrive at these logistic platforms and make them wait up to five hours. This is a double job injury, because many times, and more in the case of being self-employed, they can't even bill. It ended, not without insisting again on the need to dignify the working conditions of all workers in the sector, for whom we also call for the possibility of early retirement and safer working conditions. Do it and do it right, because it's too late, so don't let it happen to you like your mates and fish and forget we're in a climate emergency. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u166	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, I have the floor, Mrs López Domínguez.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u167	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. We in the Confederal Group agree that there is a certain situation in the road transport sector which needs to be improved. However, I believe that the debate on this motion is not the right place to talk about the method of maintaining State roads. We believe that this debate should take place within the framework of broader planning on sustainable mobility, green and progressive taxation, focusing on criteria of social, environmental and territorial justice, economic balance and road safety. If I want to point out the inconsistency of the PP in this sense, since in the two governments of Mariano Rajoy were asked for both studies for the implementation of a system of payment for use of the state roads: the first, general, through the system of Eurovignette, and the second, contemplating partial and global actions. On the other hand, the People's Party itself is now calling for a commitment not to implement the system of payment for use which they themselves envisaged. We are also all aware of the claims made by the road haulage sector. They were already doing so in 2008, after almost seven years in a row from M. Rajoy's Government. Just a few months after the PP lost the elections, the same road haulage sector showed that they had literally been out of hearing for many years. These years obviously correspond to the governments of the PP. On the other hand, when United Podemos arrived at the government, we signed a government agreement - redundancy is worth it - where it does benefit the sector: indirectly, through measures to support SMEs and plans for improvement, efficiency and digital transformation; also through the rise of the SMI, which allows the wages of wage earners and carriers, regulated right now by up to fifty different provincial conventions, to be harmonized upwards. Also directly, with the expectation of pursuing unfair competition practices exercised by mailbox companies or the abuse of dominant position by large multinational companies that harm self-employed and SMEs. Similarly, the Government has already taken measures that benefit the sector, such as the reduction of late payments and the possibility of benefiting from ERTs and ICO guarantees. The Government is currently negotiating with the sector within the National Road Transport Committee. However, in the Confederal Group we are questioning whether it will be precisely some of the companies that are promoting Christmas unemployment who are responsible for the situation in the sector, because there are social situations so bad or worse that the situation that causes the rise of fuel or that can cause the system of maintaining the state roads that is chosen in a consensual way. We believe, as we say, for example, Workers' Commissions, that low wages, lack of recognition of professionalism or degrading treatment of workers are too common practices carried out by some of the companies calling for unemployment. This has led, among other things, to a lack of generational relief in the sector. Obviously, the People's Group does not say anything in its motion on the situation of wage-earning carriers and does not make any reference to the situation of the minority of women working in the sector. For all that has been said, that is, because of the inconsistency of the Group of the European People's Party, also taking into account the measures already adopted and those envisaged by the Government, and because the text of the motion does not reflect the problems of wage earners, our vote will not support this initiative. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u168	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, Mr Ramos Esteban has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u169	Thank you, President. The morning has been quiet - the public is not massive - and this gives rise to interesting debates such as that made today by the Member of the People's Group. I recognize that I like your talent and tone, but I also have to say that it is the exception within your group. Unfortunately, it is not the tone we hear every day; unfortunately, that conciliatory tone that seeks agreement is not what we see in the People's Party. Maybe it's time, maybe it's not the means, maybe it's the hemicycle that's half empty. I will admit that there are things about the intervention of the People's Group that I do not understand. How is it possible, as the Group of the European People's Party rightly says, that being in the government - Mr Celso Delgado is aware of this - they would like to implement a payment for use and being in the opposition say that they are radically opposed to it? When the People's Party says it wants to be a party of government, what we have come to realize is that if they return to the government, of course, they will again do what they were going to do when they were in the government, which is to impose on all Spaniards a payment for use. This diminishes the coherence of his speech, it diminishes the coherence of the position of the People's Party. And I'm going to admit that what surprises me the most, what amazes me the most, although today we are not surprised at all, is the position of the spokesman of Citizens, to whom I cannot answer. I'd love for you to come in right now to hear the words I'm going to say. In his speech he said that he did not agree with what the Group of the European People's Party said, that he did not agree that a role should be sent to Europe saying that the Government's proposal should be withdrawn; instead, he said that he would vote in favour. This is the party of Citizens who do not understand the citizens of this country, which has caused them to come down radically and are about to disappear. That hurts our country. They have to take a path, choose a clear path and defend it and avoid approaching, as they are doing, to the right and the right. Hold your positions and stand up and don't look for electoral revenue because it's not working for you. This initiative of the People's Group is the typical banner initiative. And how is a banner initiative defined? The one in which the opposition sees a group protesting against the government and running behind the banner to see if it gets a vote. The Group of the European People's Party has taught us in this parliamentary term, especially its spokesman in this matter - I think he is not - Mr Lorite, who is an expert at putting behind the banners. He put himself behind the banner on the subject of services aboard Ferrovial and the workers' representatives were fleeing. They literally ran away, denied that he was behind the banner with them and had an explanation, because when he ruled the People's Party, the services on board Ferrovial and its workers were severely damaged and the government did nothing. Now we see you accompanying the demands of the postal workers. Let the postal workers start shaking because they are accompanied by the People's Party saying that they will defend workers' rights we know what it means: wage cuts, rights cuts and cuts in everything that has been achieved in this country every time the Socialist Party has ruled. [[Applauds]] With the Socialist Party the postal workers got the best collective agreement in history. With the Socialist Party the postal workers obtained the Universal Postal Service. It had not been approved by the People's Party for six and a half years and it was this Government that approved it. That is why I recommend that the unions run away from the People's Party, that they not at any time seek the opportunity that they can defend them because it involves trapping, because the People's Party in this country has never defended or will defend the workers. And the majority class unions have to be clear. Because I see some gestures sometimes that worry me. I don't think they have to be fooled and they can't afford to be fooled. I will end up with a reflection and, above all, looking at the transport sector. Our appreciation of everything they did in the pandemic; our appreciation of how they managed to keep supermarkets open when they had difficulties because there were service stations that were closed; my recognition of the ministry, which took steps to make them open... What happened to the deputy of VOX? [[Mr. Sánchez del Real makes gestures with his hand]] [[Laughter]] I don't understand, I don't understand the VOX deputy, really. I think I said it before, we were in an interesting debate, because there is not much public, do not spoil it now, Mr de VOX. [[Applauds]] I think this is what our citizens expect, not the permanent spectacle. Like I said, term... but I don't understand what he's doing with his finger! It's incomprehensible! [[Mr. Sánchez del Real continues to make gestures with his hand]] [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u170	Your Honor, continue, you're short on time.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u171	Yeah, I'm gonna finish, but I'm just surprised. I don't know, it's pretty nasty, but good. I'm done with the reflection. The Government is making much progress in the sector's requests, which I believe are reasonable, we believe are reasonable. And we are going to ask you, seeing that you have progress - and you recognize it today in your statements - to be able to conclude an agreement, to allow this country on Christmas dates not to suffer an employer's unemployment in the sector that could harm all citizens and, above all, to harm them. We understand your demands, we defend your demands and we will work to reach agreements.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u172	Your Honor, finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u173	I'm on my way. And for that you need attitude, talent and talent, and that's what we're gonna put on the table. Nothing more and thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u174	Mr Delgado Arce, do you accept your group's amendment?
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u175	As I have shown from the rostrum, we have reached a compromise. I will now hand over the copy to your honors.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u176	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] - the VOX Parliamentary Group, on the measures to be taken by the Government to ensure the teaching of Castilian throughout the national territory. [[File number 173/000113]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u177	We continue with the motion resulting from an urgent inquiry by the VOX Parliamentary Group on the measures to be taken by the Government to ensure the teaching of Spanish throughout the national territory. For the author group of the initiative and for the defence of the motion, Mr Utrilla Cano has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u178	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I want to say to the Socialist Party Member that what the VOX Member pointed out to him with his finger meant that during the pandemic the gas stations closed them down. [[Applauds]] They were closed because you closed them, not because an entity closed them. Let's get to the point now. It is well known that the Catalan radical left hates the cinegetic world; however, it enjoys and delights with the human hunt of a five-year-old boy and his parents at Canet de Mar, pointed out with a target, with the miserable support of the leaders of the Generality and with the indignant passivity of the Government of the nation. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, what crime has this family committed? One that is unforgivable for separatists: to demand compliance with the law, exactly as my parliamentary group does with the motion that we are bringing to the debate today. The compulsory linguistic immersion excludes Spanish and seeks to indoctrinate society into the unique nationalist and separatist thought. Spanish linguistic diversity is a treasure that we must take care of, but never an imposition. At present, in Catalonia, separatism has been imposed on the rule of law and encampment at large. Proof of this is that from the councillor to the president of the Generality they have called for the disobedience of the Supreme Court's ruling. And in the meantime, the juvenile prosecutor's office in an unknown whereabouts. The Ombudsman, in the first days, told us that it was premature to act ex officio; now, we have to wait to see how the Generality reacts. Mr. Gabilondo, the Generality has already reacted, it has already sent a circular to all the centers so that the sentence will be breached. What else do you need? [[Applauds]] In the last campaign, Mr. Gabilondo defined himself as sober, serious and formal, but he never told us that his real specialty was to profile himself. The leader of the Catalan socialists, Mr Illa, stated in Spanish Television that the law must be complied with and that it is being complied with in Catalonia - attentive - because in some centers it is complied with 25%. I will tell you exactly how many, ladies and gentlemen: in 5 of the 184 centres throughout Catalonia, data from the Generality itself. [[Applauds]] This seems enough to Mr. Illa. You little irresponsibility! The Minister of Education confirms that she called Councillor Gonzàlez-Cambray, but, be amazed!, not to recriminate her disloyalty, but to offer her police help. It must be that the more than 18,000 mosses controlled by the Generality do not seem enough to him. And you will ask yourself: has Pedro Sánchez summoned to the commission against hate crimes? Negative, ladies and gentlemen. It is rumored that he prefers to keep the cartridge in order to attack VOX again in the next Fake attack. Socialist gentlemen, many of you are parents. And not even a five-year-old moves them? His silence and inaction are an unforgivable cowardice and show nothing but the sickness of sectarianism that his Government is. [[Applauds]] Article 155 reads as follows: 'If an autonomous community fails to fulfil its obligations under the Constitution or other laws...' Ladies and gentlemen, I do not continue to read. This is exactly what is happening in Catalonia day after day. The continued failure to comply with the Constitution and the judgments of the courts makes it necessary to use the mechanical mechanisms and State controls, in particular the provisions of article 155. This is a new violation of the constitutional order, with the sole objective of linguistic cleansing and social cleansing, which we sadly know, of the Basque Country. It is necessary to put an end to these drifts and to restore constitutional legality in an imminent manner. Ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, this which we denounce here is neither new nor only happening in Catalonia. The language is used as a bold weapon to penetrate other autonomous communities and make up the delusional entelequia of the Catalan countries, which is already taking place at strenuous steps in the Balearic Islands and the Canary Islands. From VOX we demand that it be the families and not the administrations who choose the language in which their children are educated. Ladies and gentlemen, freedom of choice! Gentlemen of the PP, I have to address you because from those dusts come these muds. Let me tell you three things. You opened Pandora's box when you ruled those communities. The current sectarian governments of Valencia and Baleares have limited themselves to applying the language policy that the PP left them sown. You now rule in Galicia and there we go along the same path: the Spanish is missing from the Administration in labeling, signage documents; the Spanish texts are excluded from the literary prizes; the people who are vaccinated are given only information in Galician; teachers and doctors are required to speak Galician. Gentlemen, this is the same circumstance that was lived in Catalonia a few years ago. [[Applauds]] And third and last, gentlemen of the People's Party. Please explain - if you can - in this rostrum why you rose during the Rajoy government on 155, when you continued to indoctrinate in hatred of Spain from Catalan television and failed to comply with court rulings on educational issues, exactly as you do now. [[Applauds]] You left thousands of Catalans who trusted your government to their fate. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, when you parade through this rostrum, once you fulfill the usual insults to my party to put on your Twitter, be brave, because today you don't fit the ink stockings: either you're free and you read it you're under pressure and crime. Choose sides, ladies and gentlemen, either with the child and his family or with the Nazis who point and harass them. [[applause]] [[Applauds]] I'm sure some of you pulled cheap demagogy to falsely accuse us of attacking coexistence. The same was said in the Jewish ghettos by the collaborators with the Nazis: do not rebel, that they will take reprisals; do not escape, that there will be consequences. Therefore, we say to the families in Catalonia that they follow the example of the Canet de Mar family, that if they decide to rise up against oppression and denounce the tyrants now they have 11 brave VOX in the Catalan Parliament, 52 deputies here, in Congress, and the millions of Spaniards who support us more and more, gentlemen of Esquerra, and more and more workers every day. We will not stop for law and freedom to prevail in our beloved Catalonia and throughout Spain. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u179	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] In order to defend the amendments put forward by the groups, Mr Díaz Gómez spoke by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u180	Thank you, President. What's a five-year-old doing in December? Normally, look at toy catalogs, extreme their good behavior to compensate for some clumsy face to the Magi, share illusion with their companions of the gifts that they can bring you, see more family members than the rest of the year, but fundamentally it is a period of joy for a five-year-old, since Christmas is approaching. What does a five-year-old in December do if nationalism has set its sights on him? Suffer. He suffers because some of his companions don't talk to him. It is pointed out in chats of parents where the nationalist plague has spread its tentacles. He's afraid, because he perceives the tension around him. Nationalism, as it is a cowardly ideology, if it does not double the parents, goes after the children. Nationalism is an extortion. In Catalonia today they can sue you for demanding that your rights be fulfilled. And what does the Government of Spain do? What have the different governments of Spain done? Nothing. Denying this happens. Look, a fervent independence activist named Jaume Fàbrega has written - I open quotes -: 'I'm about to go stone this child's house! Let them go out of Catalonia.' I close quotes. The promised republic. This is the agreement Pedro Sánchez was talking about this morning. Populist Colau - who is leaving Barcelona that would have been better to have made Godzilla mayor - says anyone who wants Spanish lessons to pay for them in private. The ethnolinguistic left. Class treason. The great stabbing that is repeated when the unions come out in support of those who harass children. But what's behind all this? There's racism. There's xenophobia. There is a project for the expulsion and civilian death of those who do not submit to the nationalist dictatorship. Catalan nationalism, rather than in language, was sustained in race. There is much documentation in this regard, but after the aberrations that occurred in the twentieth century with racism as a flag, the race had to be converted and changed by language. To disguise, of course. But with the same aim: to purify Catalan society. That if someone asks for schooling, in addition to Catalan, in Spanish, he knows what he expects, with the complicity of the PSOE. I encourage families to break their silence on this issue, to ask for the exercise of their rights, that this be a turning point. How much hate does it take for a father to tell his five-year-old son not to talk to another five-year-old because he has asked for teaching in Spanish? How much hate does it take for parents' chats in a school to think of making a child empty? How many more children are going to sacrifice at the altar of the tongue? It's not immersion, it's asphyxiation. This is Catalonia that is being built with nationalism. Are these the foundations of Catalan society that they want for the future? It's... it's... it's... it's... Haneke's white ribbon, it's Dennis Gansel's wave, it's another brick in the wall of Pink Floyd. They are creating absolute dystopia and PSOE in Catalonia supporting all of this. The Ombudsman - voted by the PP and the PSOE - is silent, but it is that the Rajoy government with absolute majority did absolutely nothing when this same happened already in Balaguer and Mataró. [[Applauds]] They didn't do anything. We're not gonna let this get normal! Here they will not use the strategy of the boiled frog, who gradually think that we will surrender. No, it's over. This misery is over. In Catalonia there is a shield, yes, for these families. There's a shield, it's Citizens. When by asking for a part of the teaching in Spanish an infamous one points to a child, I will point to the infamous one and my companions point to the infamous one. It's over! When a family is harassed for wanting to exercise their rights in Catalonia, it will have Citizens at its side. Look, as much as the one accused of fraud by the Speaker of Parliament, Laura Borràs, expels my comrades, like the huge Nacho Martín Blanco, they won't get Citizens to shut up, they won't silence us. Nationalist gentlemen, I say to you: there is no language worth a child, there is no language worth a child. All languages are at the service of people. Children are sacred. And to the Government of Spain, his discharge of office and his covert complicity will not serve him this time. They only delay the inevitable: the defeat of the nationalist plague or, what is the same, the triumph of the will. Lords of the PSOE, do not underestimate the love of the parents to their children, you are awakening a sleeping titan! [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u181	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Clavell López has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress. [[Rumors.- There is a debate between Mr Díaz Gómez and several Members of the Republican Parliamentary Group.-Protests.-Applause]] Mr. Díaz. [[Pause.-Rumores.-A lady MP: President!]] They're talking to each other, it's okay. Whenever you want, Mr. Clavell.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u182	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. As they have already brought up during today's session on several occasions this morning and the Holy Scriptures have been mentioned, I want to mention it and I want to link it with the Bible. The Bible has already announced that a small shepherd defeated an evil giant named Goliath, and thousands of years later the story is repeated. A child of just five years of age is making a destructive monster stumble, such as Catalan nationalism and independence. [[Applauds]] This Hero, who is attending childhood, has managed to unmask nationalism and we are seeing his true face, as we have just seen right now, which is nothing other than the fascism-communism of the twenty-first century. [[Applauds]] Those movements that devastated our continent during the last century have now become, under the independenceist flags, machines of persecution and destruction. They have not had enough to divide Catalan society between good and bad, labelled by yourselves; to ruin the economy of that region, a benchmark in Spain and in the world until the dirty independenceist hands have upset it; to get hundreds of companies to abandon Catalonia by fleeing from the existing disgovernment and to create an excessively harmful germ that will take generations to disappear. But all this comes to an end, the silent Catalonia begins to move and that five-year-old has aroused a feeling contrary to everything nationalism wants to impose. What you will not be able to do once you see the barbarities you are committing and encouraging against a child!Representatives - and I look at you face to face - of the fascism-communism of the twenty-first century, you are cowards and miserable. [[Applauds]] Who do you think you are to appropriate a language? Those of us who come from bilingual communities are fortunate to have that variety that enriches us culturally. From the cradle we already know and master two languages, which should make us proud. As thoughter Fernando Savater rightly said, the languages have two great enemies: those who impose them and those who ban them, which makes you, independentists, the main enemy that Catalan has today. [[Applauds]] The People's Party has never been with the impositions or the prohibitions. We defend a cordial and integrative bilingualism, without confrontation or threats, where you can speak, learn, study both languages and in both languages. We feel infinitely Spanish every time we speak Valencian, Catalan, Galician or Basque and so we want to continue living, being free to choose the language with which to communicate, think or study. But the worst of all these trophies committed by this rancid, vengeful and bitter nationalism is the impassibility of the Government of Spain. The PSOE, since Moncloa, is being complicit, with its permissive silence, in these threats to that little five-year-old, are accepting those attacks that encourage discrimination, exclusion and segregation, are making it possible to create apartheids in our territory. Simply by sitting on that blue bench, you, socialist ladies and gentlemen, are able to bargain even with the devil himself and look away while the children, i.e. the most helpless, suffer harassment, insults and aggressions. Where is that famous statement that you now claim to be an ambassador to the Holy See that children are from the State? Affirmation that we do not share, of course. But they defend, as a State, their physical integrity and their rights as citizens in choosing the type of education they want without any reprisal. You have created this problem with the Education Act, which was passed not a year ago and which has already received the first varapalos. You have eliminated the Spanish language as a vehicle and official language of the State, and I remind you that the People's Party has filed an application for unconstitutionality, which has been admitted to procedure, and that - when we have ruled and in the opposition, in those communities where we are in opposition - we have resorted to all linguistic rights. By the way, neither VOX nor Citizens were present in any of them. [[Applauds]] As long as you advocate for confrontation, crisp and conflict, the People's Party will do so for coexistence and freedom, principles that it will uphold with all the tools allowed by law. That five-year-old Canet de Mar has become a great hope for millions of Spaniards who feel coerced by nationalism in different autonomous communities. I conclude, Mr President, Cervantes, four hundred years ago, he said that the Spanish language is our most precious treasure, and the People's Party will fight so that within many centuries the citizens of that time can affirm the same. Thank you so much. [[Applause. - (FR) The ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Group, on the floor of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u183	Thank you. Mr García Adanero has the floor on behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u184	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the truth is that, from the moment when the nationalist and separatist parties said that languages were a fundamental instrument for national construction, it became clear that they were going to be used from a political point of view. And here's the thing. In the end, if a person, if a family trying to exercise its right, because it has been recognized by law, has to go to court because they are denied it - which in itself is quite serious the issue - and the courts give him the reason, what problem is there for this person, so that this child cannot study 25% in Spanish? They just want to ban him from his freedom. And that the nationalist groups, the Government of Catalonia, etc., want to ban freedom, does not miss anyone. What is strange to us is that the Spanish Government does not say anything, that it is silent. The pact goes so far that it prevents him from going out in defense of the rights of a five-year-old, a family, recognized by the courts, and the Government of Spain looking elsewhere. Today the President of the Government or the Minister of Education, when asked about the subject, say: well, there is the child; more or less what he is provoking. It's just that it's always the same, it's that the moment you face nationalism you're provoking, it's your fault. Who do you think? How do you think a five-year-old wants to speak Spanish in Spain? But who does it think of? It's just that he's provoking, he's a provocateur, and that family is a provocateur! That's what you tell them and people don't believe it, that in Spain a child can't study in Spanish, a recognized right, because you don't feel like it. But who are you to tell a person who can't study what he wants when he has recognized that right? Who did they think they were? [[Applauds]] That is the problem, which is being questioned about the freedom of a five-year-old child and the Government of Spain - which is what is serious - the President of the Government of Spain, is looking elsewhere. That's the worst part of all this. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u185	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Botran Pahissa has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u186	Thank you, President. Four ideas about the language in Catalonia to disassemble their lies. The first, the school is the only area of social life in Catalonia in which the predominant language is Catalan, the only one. Second, immersion is the only method that ensures that a minority language such as Catalan can be shared and learned by students from different family languages, the only method. Thirdly, for the same reason, immersion does not segregate pupils because of the family language, so immersion is synonymous with social cohesion. And fourth, the immersion does not go to the detriment of the knowledge of the Spanish, and this is demonstrated by all evaluations. [[Applauds.-Protests.-A honourable Member: Lie!]] I'm telling you, though I feel like I'm talking to a wall. You do not understand this because you do not want to understand it, because what bothers you is that there is another language other than Spanish. [[Protests]] I don't add any more. I now read the manifesto promoted by the families of Canet de Mar, of the Turó del Drac School, families with different family languages and all of them in favour of immersion. [[Continue your intervention in Catalan.-Protests.-Applause.-Mr. Rosety Fernández de Castro: Call him to order!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u187	Your Honor, one second. Mr. Rosety, please don't hit the seats. [[Mr. Rosety Fernández de Castro: Call him to order!]] Mr. Rosety, sit down, please. Don't hit it. [[Mr. Rosety Fernández de Castro: I have the right to stand.-Do your duty.]] Mr. Botran, you can't go on in Catalan. I think you've already done a part of the manifesto in Catalan. If you want to continue it, I'm sure you can perfectly translate it into Spanish for as long as you have it. Please attend to what I ask of you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u188	Well, this would be a bit of a linguistic imposition, that's for sure. [[One honourable Member: Speak in English!-Protests.-Applause]] The manifesto is in Catalan in favour of multilingualism, I would like to finish it. [[He finishes his speech in Catalan.-Applause.-Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u189	Your Honor, your time is up. Thank you. [[A cleaning service worker disinfects the speaker's rostrum]] We continue with the Basque Parliamentary Group, EAJ-PNV. [[As he descends from the rostrum of speakers, Mr Botran Pahissa and Mr Vice-President Gil Lázaro exchange a few words.-Protests.-Applause.]] Well, ladies and gentlemen, sit down, let's continue the debate. Mrs Gorospe Elezcano has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u190	How can they appeal and say that we must move forward without threats when we are witnessing a pitiful spectacle, a pitiful spectacle full of threats and insults from hatred, from contempt to diversity, from contempt to linguistic plurality? [[Applauds]] It is absolutely regrettable, you are doing an authentic rally, herring for yourselves, people who want to be filled with national pride with a Spain monocorde, monocolor, ethnolinguistic; that is what you want and what you are doing, because the constitutional order is not violated at all, as you are saying. [[rumors.-Applause.]] Or do you appeal in the motion to the application of article 3? Please read article 3, paragraph 3, of the Constitution, which states that cultural diversity shall be the subject of special protection, and that which is in a minority situation shall be the subject of special protection. And do you know what hegemonic languages are all over the world? Fifteen, one of them the Spanish, and the others the minority, would have to be given special protection, as they have been. What you want is to corner the linguistic debate where it was and take it to where it was decades ago. Fortunately, thanks to the social consensus, thanks to the political consensus, progress has been made, and even so and the whole of Basque, Catalan and Galician, they continue to be minority languages. They are more important and we have made much progress in their use thanks to the educational system, because 95% of families in Basquedi freely choose models D and B, mostly; unfortunately, in Navarre they cannot do the same. And they choose them because all models and all professional and pedagogical systems say that they are the best models, that they give good results and that under no circumstances is the Spanish at risk. [[Rumors]] That's the reality, that's the reality you don't want to see. I appeal to you to return to the central lane, Mr Clavell, because that is the corner to which you are going to lead with these unfortunate and authoritarian rallies, with little democratic care, with little democratic culture and with little dialogueal attitude in order to move forward as has been done in recent decades; all this will lead you to a place and try to stir up absurd waters with a debate that is not real, but that is a political debate that interests you to stir up to fish votes in other fisheries. And that is very dangerous, because, really, neither the linguistic debate nor the debate on educational models should go this way. [[Rumors]] Let's go back to the central lane, to the lane where it was, because we'll be able to move forward in the implantation... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u191	One second, Mrs. Gorospe. Let's see, one second. [[Mr Sánchez del Real asks for the floor]] We are not going to interrupt Mrs Gorospe's speech.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u192	Mr. President, the session is being recorded illegally.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u193	No, no, we're not interrupting the surgery, no. [[Rumors]] Mr Sánchez del Real, then you will have the floor if you request it conveniently, according to the Rules, but you have decency... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u194	I invoke Article 72, which calls for respect in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u195	Can you have due respect for Mrs Gorospe, who is intervening and wants to continue to do so, please? [[Applauds]] Later, Mr Sánchez del Real, we will resolve the issue that needs to be resolved once the debate is over, but we will let Mrs Gorospe, in her due right, finish it at least, please. [[protests by Mr Sánchez del Real]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u196	Thank you, President. Let us return to the social consensus and return to the political consensus that has existed around the debate on languages and language models, because that is really what needs to be done. Do you believe that in the street, with which you are falling with the pandemic, with the needs that educational administrations have, and with the emergencies that you also have, you can manipulate and distort this debate and put as an absolute priority a debate that is not real, a debate that is being manipulated in order to draw political revenues in that struggle for the space of absolute Spanish centrism? [[Rumors]] Abandon that path and it is already worth threats, because what cannot be is that you are continually threatening the application of Article 155, because what you would like would be for it to be a preventive Article 155 in Euskadi or Catalonia, in itself we think differently, in case we act differently or in case we do not share the reflections you make. It's okay with threats, we have to get back to normal. What you cannot claim is to establish and implement the exceptionality that you claim to be a normality. It cannot be that, it is an absolutely authoritarian regime that you intend to implement with the continued threat of the application of article 155 for anything. Let's go back to the dialogue and forget about this fight with authoritarian attitudes to see who can do more, I'm not going to say what men would say in some cases or at least before they said. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u197	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Ladies and gentlemen, I remind all of you of something which is said very repeatedly by the Bureau presidency, the host of which is the host. I will read you the Article of the Rules of Procedure which indicates this and, therefore, in view of the consequences of their non-compliance. It reads as follows: No one may, without being expressly authorized by the President of the Congress, make graphic or sound recordings of the sessions of the organs of the House. Therefore, I beg those who record or take pictures, because I have also seen some Member taking pictures, abstaining and stop doing both, please. Thank you very much and we will continue. [[Rumors]] We move on to the next intervention. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Rego Candaimil has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u198	Thank you, Mr. President. An old strategy of fascism and the whole policy of domination is to make the victims look like aggressors and the aggressors look like victims. [[Applauds.-Protests]] And this perfectly portrays you; it perfectly portrays you, who call the other Nazis and fascists. [[Rumors]] This is what they intend to do with our languages to justify their assimilationist policies. Here the only language that has historically been imposed and imposed on our peoples and languages is Spanish. They've been trying for over five hundred years, and they failed. And they will fail. Castelao explains it perfectly in his Always in Galicia: You are failed imperialists. [[Continue your intervention in Galician]] Thank you. [[Applauds.-Protests]] The Vice-President: Mr Miqel i Valentí has the floor. [[Rodriguez Gómez de Celis]] [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u199	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. We did not hear in the defense of his speech a few weeks ago many arguments neither educational nor statistical in favor of the proposal presented by the VOX Parliamentary Group. I'll bring them to you, in case you're interested. Despite or thanks to the system of linguistic immersion, Catalonia is the fifth community with the best score and reading comprehension. I'm saying it in case you're interested in the data. And despite or thanks to the linguistic immersion, Catalonia has dropout rates that are above the average of the rest of the communities. [[A member of the VOX Parliamentary Group makes negative gestures]] No, no, no, yes. Ladies and gentlemen, you have found in your tongue a formula that works for you to stir up hatred, to stir up anger. It was only necessary to see, ladies and gentlemen of VOX, when you heard Catalan speaking in this House, that their faces were not surprising, they were not understanding anything; they were angry. You're grateful for the honesty. You have found in the tongue a way to stir up conflict, and without conflict you cannot sow hatred, and without hatred you have no votes. [[Applauds]] I think the favor we're not going to do to the rest of the groups is get into your game, we're not going to, I don't think we should. We will defend our positions with arguments, with figures, with data, which is what is done in politics. Because in politics, ladies and gentlemen, what is not defended by data and arguments is defended by what you have done today, which is angry, hateful, ends badly and is the best ally for the fascism that you represent in this House. Ladies and gentlemen, you are not going to find us; you are going to find us standing up here and as many times as you defend these issues in this House, because with the Catalan language you do not play games, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u200	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Nogueras and Mrs Camero have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u201	Thank you, President. This false debate of the tongue that the right and right always get out of the joke makes me think of my maternal grandparents, Remedios and Paco, Andalusians both, of Two Sisters. They lived almost fifty years in Catalonia and I am convinced that they would now be the first to reject and denounce that, on their behalf, on behalf of people living in Catalonia who feel Catalan, but also Spanish, is attacking in this way the Catalan language and culture, the language and culture of the country that welcomed them, the language and culture that are now those of their children and grandchildren. [[Rumors]] What we are living these days, what you are doing these days, does not represent an open, cultured or democratic Spain, it represents the worst: Francoism, sectarianism, inculturation, hatred and, above all, lies, because today we have heard one lie after another. [[Applauds]] Spain, in case one of you does not know - because here too we have detected a lot of misinformation; I inform you that 100% of the citizens of Catalonia speak Spanish, which I see they are concerned about - is one of the Member States of the Council of Europe, which signed the European Charter of Regional and Minority Languages. [[continue your intervention in Catalan]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u202	Your Honor, your time is up. Finally, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u203	[[Finish your Catalan intervention]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u204	Thank you very much, Your Honor, your time is up. [[Applauds]] Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Bassa Coll has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u205	In the same way that I am Catalan and do not consider myself Spanish, I do not consider the Catalan language as a Spanish language, but, what about you? You, who always, and very much, defend everything Spanish, why don't you defend and protect the Catalan language? Do you also not consider the Catalan language a Spanish language? Why not take offense when a court denies the entire class the right to study in their own language, Catalan, if only a family refuses to have their child receive classes in Catalan? Why is it normal for classes in Castile to be given in Spanish and it is not normal for classes in Catalonia to be given in Catalan? [[Applauds]] [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u206	One second, Mrs. Bassa. Mrs Bassa is trying to argue her ideas, which can be shared or not, is logically understandable, but please let us do so with due respect to the intervener so that we can hear her in her extension. Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u207	Thank you, President. Moreover, what does it matter to someone from Cuenca in what language classes are given in Canet de Mar? If a Catalan family lives in Burgos and asks for schooling in Catalan, would they accept that the whole group would give 25% of the classes in Catalan? [[Rumors]] With regard to audiovisual law, would it be normal for only 2%, 3% or 4% of the entire audiovisual offer to be in the Spanish language? Is it less our language? Why have they not been outraged either when a court has ruled that 25% of the classes in Catalonia must be given in the Spanish language? Why hasn't the entire PSOE come out on the trumpet to denounce that some judges are challenging the linguistic immersion, endorsed by the educational law that we voted just in this House? [[Applauds]] This court 1 is charged with linguistic immersion on the basis of the Constitution, curiously the same Constitution that has existed in all years of linguistic immersion. [[page]] [[protests.-Applause]] In what part of the Constitution does it say that 25% of the classes in Catalonia must be done in the Spanish language? What part of the Constitution is it in? None. It's invented by a court of law, and you're quiet, because you care about the Catalan language. [[Applauds]] If they cared about the language - and not just the PSC, which previously defended immersion, but the PSOE, and all the progressive parties of the state, including the Spanish intellectuals - would be in the demonstration this Saturday in defense of the Catalan language, alongside platforms as worthy as Som Escola and Ómnium Cultural, but not, because the only language they care about is the [[Protests.-A Member of Parliament: Golpists!]] 1 Word withdrawn by the Presidency in accordance with Rule 104.3 of the Rules of Procedure of the House. Castilian, whom without any complex they call Spanish. What then are the Catalan language, the Galician and the Basque language? What are the Aranian, Asturian, Aragonese and Leonese languages? They make Spanish the greatest enemy of the languages of the whole State and, in particular, for spiders and català, the languages of the Catalan Countries. We already know the mantra of the Spanish as a common language. When did the Catalans decide that the common language was Spanish? We did not decide it by the Catalans, Philip V decided it, applying the right of conquest, yes, the right of conquest. [[protests]] And if we explain that in our schools it turns out to indoctrinate. Don't you indoctrinate by hiding this historical reality in your schools? [[Protests]] Juan Carlos de Borbón, heir to that Philip V, lied that the Spanish was never a language of imposition, but a language of encounter, and that no one was ever forced to speak in Spanish. Still today they continue to force and impose the Castilian. Today it is no longer the king of Castile who imposes the Spanish language in Catalonia for the right of conquest, but the judges of the Kingdom of Spain for a supposed constitutional right. [[Continues your intervention in Catalan]] Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u208	Thank you very much. One moment, Mrs. Bassa; one second. Mrs. Bassa, please withdraw the appeal to the Supreme Court of 2, Court 3 [[page]] I beg you to withdraw it.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u209	You didn't take it back, President, because that's what I think. Thank you. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u210	It shall be withdrawn from the Journal of Sessions. Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Mena Arca has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u211	Thank you, President. The truth, ladies and gentlemen, is that there are days when one is ashamed to be a Member of this House and to see the shows on the right here. [[Applauds]] Thinking about this intervention, I remembered the trips in the family car, when I was a teenager, and we went every summer from Sabadell to La Ràpita. These trips associated them with the music we listened to, to Serrat, to Lluís Llach, to Manzanita, to Ana Reverte, to Marina Rossell, and I especially remember one of the songs, from Tijeritas, which was called From the South to Catalonia. The chorus sure sounds to them - it said: Ay, garabi, garabi -, and the song tells the story of so many Andalusian families who went to Catalonia and there they found a home, a host society that did not ask where they came from or what language they spoke. [[Applauds]] With that example, ladies and gentlemen of the far right, you can imagine how little I am interested in the Catalonia of essences. I'm particularly annoyed by Catalonia's identity. You know why? Because he looks like you, he looks too much like you. [[Applauds]] It is left with intolerance and sectarianism. Fortunately, that Catalonia and that Spain are residual and today you come back here to bring a ration of intolerance, sectarianism and ignorance. You're not the first, gentlemen of VOX, you haven't invented anything. I have been defending from this rostrum a successful model of linguistic immersion for five years now, because no one explains it to me, because I have lived it in the first person. This is where I've seen many Members like you pass. Albert Rivera has passed, who drowned in the bonfire of his vanities; former Minister Méndez de Vigo has passed, to whom 155 took him ahead, and even Toni Cantó, who was very critical of the chiringuitos and now lives in one of them. [[Applauds]] And how those Members, you ladies and gentlemen of VOX, will also pass. You will pass and the linguistic immersion and the consensus of Catalonia will remain, and you will remain because you are good for the children of the popular classes, because you are good for the Spanish speakers, and because you are good for the linguistic coexistence in a bilingual country like ours. What bothers you most is that, precisely, we are the children of that Catalonia of the Garabí, the children of the Catalonia mestiza and charnega, the children of the Catalonia diverse and plural those who most 2 Word withdrawn by the Presidency in accordance with Rule 104.3 of the Rules of Procedure of the House. 3 Word withdrawn by the Presidency in accordance with Rule 104.3 of the Rules of Procedure of the House. We are defending the model of linguistic immersion in our country. [[Applauds]] And you - I tell you now - will never take away the double pride of having Andalusian blood and having formed me in an educational system that today allows me to be bilingual. They won't be able to take away that plural pride. [[Applauds]] Your intolerance, ladies and gentlemen, has no room in a society that, like I sang the Garabi, of Tijeritas, today sings the Millionària, of Rosalía. Ladies and gentlemen of VOX, they frequently attack the People's Party and call it the cowardly right and you have become the complex right, full of the cultural diversity of Spain, full of the languages and cultural wealth of our country. They say they are very Spanish and many Spanish, but they have almost twenty million Spaniards who, in addition to Spanish, we speak Catalan, Galician, Basque or Asturian. [[Applauds]] You are, in short, the double political morality. They don't love Spain, we've got half the Spaniards left. The truth is that you not only hate Catalan, you also hate the different. It is invented that in Catalonia the Castilian is persecuted. And I have to tell you that the main episode of persecution of the Spanish language we have experienced in Madrid, by the hand of the three right-wing, when you prevented, almost on the same day of your death, one of the greats of Spanish literature from being declared a favorite daughter of Madrid. [[Applauds]] That, ladies and gentlemen, is the pursuit of the Spanish language in our country. So you, who want to give lessons defending the Castilian, what you did was mistreat the one who most promoted the Castilian language in our country on the very day of his death. And I tell you one thing: as the Madriders did, on Saturday the Catalans will rise up with a book in hand to tell them that linguistic immersion is quite contrary to their intolerance and sectarianism. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u212	Your Honor, you must finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u213	And I'm done, President...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u214	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u215	...with a plea - that I know they won't listen to me - to the three right. [[Protests]] Please, ladies and gentlemen...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u216	Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u217	... of the three right-wing: the political use you are making of a five-year-old is disgusting. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United People's Party (Christian Democrats) and Democrats in the European Union (Christian Democrats) and in the European Parliament (Christian Democrats)]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u218	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, Mrs Martínez Seijo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u219	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. It is difficult to find as many barbarities and follies as those heard this morning in this motion. It's a real shame. They have turned politics into a pitiful pamphlet, full of distortions; distortions of reality, because that is the obsession of VOX and the right in their permanent attack on this government and the Socialist Party, and they do not make them see reality, they simply distort it. Look, they have filed a motion with such an aggressive language, such accusatory and so extremist that it seems more like the Holy Inquisition than the 21st century, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]] Firstly, we are accused of voting against their free interpretation of the Spanish Constitution, which would force the co-official languages to be minority and optional. And that, ladies and gentlemen of VOX, is not what the Spanish Constitution says. There, of course, they will not find the Socialist Party, because we do defend the Spanish Constitution, and we defend it in its terms - Article 3.3 of the Spanish Constitution -. As Mrs Gorospe said, read, find out, because what you are doing in this motion is going against the Spanish Constitution. I also advise you to read some of the recommendations of the Council of Europe, that Article 3.3 of the Spanish Constitution makes it very clear: minority and co-official languages must be protected and respected, because they ignore and forget that 40% of the Spanish population speaks another co-official language and one hundred per cent speak Spanish, ladies and gentlemen, one hundred per cent, because that is what the Constitution says. [[Applauds]] And stop manipulating and say the Spanish is in danger. Look, I'm Spanish, and I and millions of other Spaniards are not going to take away our own language or the right to speak Spanish. That's not what this is about! But, of course, what you are doing is using this sentence, by the way, Mr Clavell, a sentence that is based on the Lomce, which very soon forgets the consequences of your harmful educational law, the Lomce, which is on which this sentence is based. And he said the Castilian is not in danger. No way, nor in schools, because Lomlou protects him, which we take care of. [[Applauds]] Nor is the Spaniard in danger in the autonomous communities, because he is protected by article 3 of the Spanish Constitution. So, find out and find out, and don't mess up where there isn't. But, of course, they are falling into the same extremism as the far right. And they are even asking to apply Article 155 of the Spanish Constitution, which is to intervene Catalonia. Moreover, they ask for it at a time when they have not even given the prescribed time limit for the notification and communication of the judgment of the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia, which is two months, and not even two months have passed for the enforcement of the judgment. We - this government, the Socialist Party - do not question the law at any time, we do not question the judiciary, we do not question the sentences; we comply with the law where we have to comply, because it is and cannot be otherwise, ladies and gentlemen. But they want to hold this government accountable for a judgment for which it is not responsible, because I remind them that it is the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia, not the Government of Spain, and they are demanding that the government intervene where it has no jurisdiction - Autonomous State, Spanish Constitution -. Focus, ladies and gentlemen, on you, too, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party. They are not simply satisfied with demanding - listen to me - that Article 155 be applied, they go beyond that. They want to restrict individual freedoms, they want to restrict the freedoms of those who have the right to freely use a co-official language, under the threat of punishment. That's what this VOX motion says. And, if that were not enough, they do such an enormous exercise of cynicism that they conclude this motion by appealing to respect for the linguistic modalities that exist in Spain with respect to the Constitution and within the constitutional framework. But there is nothing but the Spanish Constitution, ladies and gentlemen! It is you who are ignoring her! It is you who are precisely encouraging that the Constitution is not complied with with with respect for all languages! I conclude this intervention by telling them that this motion reflects an ideological and fanatical extremism in such a way that it represents that black and frank Spain that voted against the Spanish Constitution. Of course, what they are demonstrating here today is that they do not accept the modern, democratic and advanced Spain that we are today, and that with the complicity also of the People's Party that today joins this nonsense that they have brought to this Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u220	Your Honor, finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u221	I recommend, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, that you focus, that you look at what you are doing, because you are the only right-wing in Europe that are supporting the extreme right in positions as high as the one that has been brought here today. Nothing more. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u222	Thank you. Mr Utrilla Cano, do you accept any of the amendments tabled?
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u223	We're waiting for a reform of one of them, so we'll wait to decide.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-15-CD211215.u224	All right, thank you very much. The meeting was suspended. It was one and five minutes in the afternoon.
