ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. The meeting was resumed. We begin with the agenda item on the Senate amendments. Amendments adopted by the Senate to the draft Organic Act on Comprehensive Protection of Children and Adolescents from Violence. Mr Mazón Ramos has the floor on behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group. [[Rumors]] To begin, I ask you, please, to occupy your seats and a little silence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u2	Good morning. Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, we had the opportunity to speak from the PRC in this rostrum on the content of this law, and on that occasion I took the opportunity to give voice to the Bullying 0 Association in Cantabria. Of course this law goes much further, we are faced with a necessary, pioneering text, with which a broad consensus has been reached. As the Senator of the Regionalist Party of Cantabria said in the passage of the text by the Senate, it is about guaranteeing the rights of all layers of society, without exception. This task is the responsibility of the State, and today we fulfil here the role that belongs to those who represent national sovereignty in Congress. The law we pass today is of paramount importance, as it represents a guarantee for one of the most vulnerable groups in our society: young people in the stage that goes from childhood to adolescence. The comprehensive protection of children and adolescents from all forms of violence is a reflection of the society of our time, and it has been claimed by organizations of all kinds: victims of child violence, NGOs and governmental organizations such as the United Nations. The reality we are trying to combat is a dramatic reality and in a large part silenced for reasons of all kinds: social, cultural, economic... A minimum percentage of violence against children and adolescents is detected when it occurs, something unsustainable when about half of adolescents acknowledge that they have suffered some form of violence. In the face of this desolating reality, action must be taken immediately, and the regionalists of Cantabria believe that this bill marks a path that can invite optimism in the medium and long term. Today this law returns from the Senate enriched by numerous amendments, the majority of which we have supported there and today we will repeat our support in this House. And it is that, if we look at the content of the law, we see that we are looking for a radical change in the three main phases in cases of child or adolescent violence. First, the procedures for the early detection and suppression of violent behaviour in any form, whether in the family, school or social sphere, are modified. In the latter, we must pay particular attention, because the growing dependence of younger people on forms of leisure on the network carries numerous risks, including episodes of cyberbullying, which can have serious consequences on the victim. In addition to the above, it is important to highlight a novel issue, such as the right of victims to denounce any aggression and especially to be heard in the process. Finally, it is essential to establish a framework for action for the recovery phase, after episodes of violence, whether punctual or prolonged over time. In the Regionalist Party of Cantabria we want to emphasize, as is also done in the text, the necessary involvement of the whole society as a whole in the fight against this scourge, and in highlighting the importance of individual responsibility in reporting episodes of child and adolescent violence. In this sense, awareness-raising, civic education, the transmission of values of respect and tolerance throughout the schooling of our young people is a factor to be taken into account, and on which we must focus decisively. And in particular it is necessary to involve the administrations closest to the citizen: the local corporations. In Cantabria we have some good example of this, as in the Town Hall of Comillas, with Teresa Noceda, her regional mayor at the front, and the Councillor of Children, Youth, Education and Social Services, Mirta Peña, where they have implemented and are developing the I Plan of Children and Family in Comillas, which consists of several programs, and is a good example. It has programmes for the care of social services, including primary care for children at risk of moderate unprotection; detection of situations of child exploitation, with individual and family intervention; a family intervention service; collaboration and coordination of social services for specialized care and care centres; community information; preventive measures, with an integral support programme for schools. There is another related project, Comillas Sana, which aims to be the central axis of actions in the field of different social actors, and which aims to be a working tool that encompasses actions aimed at adolescents in situations of risk related to consumption. This programme also includes actions aimed at children and adolescents from the city hall itself; it is born from the need identified in relation to work in the area of prevention of situations of risk in relation to units. There is a family intervention project, where there is an emotional intelligence section, with the aim of modifying risk factors in the family context. There is a program of positive parenthood, School in Family, which is an activity designed for the meeting and training of parents on psychological, pedagogical, social, cultural issues. They use a method that deviates from the classic informational talk, and seeks the active participation of families in an attempt to get the parents' school as close as possible to the problems that really concern the education of boys and girls. The Afect project is being carried out by the Government of Cantabria and offers a comprehensive care programme for families, with a workshop that seeks to solve all the daily problems of parents with children. And a project related, as I said at the beginning, to the fight against school harassment, the Minerva project, with two courses, one aimed at students and students of 5th and 6th grade, Prevention of harassment and risk for gender violence, and another aimed at families where ten good practices of family education, social skills at home, etc. are included. I think we have here a good example, a good model. Many municipalities in Spain I suppose are doing the same, but I think this is a good model to follow, and we hope that with this law all these kinds of actions will be strengthened. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u3	Thank you very much, Mr. Mazón. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Aizpurua Arzallus has the floor for the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u4	Good morning, egun on. Thank you, President. I must admit, ladies and gentlemen, we have a bitter, sweet feeling. We know that the law that is foreseeable will finally be passed today in this Congress is, on the one hand, a cause for celebration, because it brings with it a large number of measures that benefit the rights that we owe to children and adolescents. We know perfectly well that what comes out of this Congress, in relation to what came in, has greatly improved, with substantial and substantial improvements. We know and we celebrate. We know that this law can be described as a pioneer law. I know that it is an advanced law, which takes important steps to make the consideration of children not a transitional stage, without clear and full rights, not considering children as a means of people with half rights, but that the rights of children and adolescents have now been loaded with real content. I also know that this has been possible thanks to the action of many people and so many groups and associations working with children. Because the laws would never improve if it were not for so many people whose feelings, whose ethical and justice sense are better than the laws in force. Thanks to all of them and thanks also to all of these groups. But I also know that it could have improved further. I know that the scenarios in which abuses, actions and attitudes of violence against boys and girls occur are, too, precisely those in which the shielding to prevent them from occurring should be the most resistant, the most armored. And I know, because it has been noted by associations working in the defence of children, that violence and abuse in institutional protection centres are a reality, dark and uncomfortable, yes, of course, but one that needs to be addressed. And this legal articulation doesn't. It makes him invisible, eludes him, making it harder for him to be fought. It is often said that the protection of the Menese is the responsibility of all, but rights issues such as this do not need as many supporters of the cause, they do not need as much of it as the public authorities are deeply involved and courageously in order to tackle all the risks. That is why we still do not understand how this law can give social services staff the status of agents of authority, and that their lordships are not aware of what they are doing with it. It will not be because we have not repeated it to the point of satiety, I think we have done it in each and every one of the interventions we have had in this process of law. Because this means investing public officials with vast powers of action, without the need for prior legal protection, which can lead to arbitrary situations that are very difficult to reverse for families. Although power and the use of power are not the same, practice shows that the misuse of power on many occasions when there is a position of privilege, on which no one in this Chamber has convinced me that it is for the benefit of the children and adolescents, who are, let us not forget, the object of this law. Article 39 is not focused on the protection of children and, therefore, I again express, as I have already done, our frontal opposition to this article. On the return of Congress to the Senate, the competing invasion of several articles of the law was saved, and the truth is that much more has been improved, the truth, because there were more issues that could have changed, and unfortunately, after the passage of the Senate, there has also not been a solution for those boys and girls who can be removed from their homes. Prohibiting these evictions radically until finding an alternative solution would be what the sense of prudence, wisdom and sense of justice should mark as the only possibility, but it is that it has not even been accepted that, at least before the eviction, a judge's prior review of the eviction procedure is guaranteed. Not even that. So, you see, there are dark zones in this sea of childhood where some rights sail without course and others are anchored at the bottom of the current pressures, let's say so, totally alien to the defense of childhood. I will not go further into the negative aspects, because today this law is passed, and as I said at the beginning it offers many more reasons to be celebrated than otherwise. So I'm not going to tarnish how good you have, although I think it's our obligation to point out some of your shortcomings and absences, and that's why I do it. Hence the sour feeling that, however, I do not want you to overlook the welcome we give to this new children's law and to which we will support with our affirmative vote. Since we are talking about childhood, I think it is also appropriate to extend the view a little further and go to Ceuta. We are talking about child protection, and I would also like to recall, by extending the view even further, that right now in Palestine, girls and boys are being attacked. Twenty-five per cent of the victims of the bombings and attacks are girls and boys. The Israeli Government, ladies and gentlemen, has killed many more boys and girls in these ten days than Palestinian fighters. The world cannot allow this barbarism. [[Applauds]] I return to the children's law because, in spite of everything, I believe that we must once again congratulate all the people, all the collectives who have improved it and made it possible. Thank you. Eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u5	Thank you, Mrs. Aizpurua. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Barandiaran Benito has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u6	Egun on. Good morning, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, a few weeks ago and from this very rostrum I said that the defence of Basque self-government prevented me from voting in favour of a law with which my group substantially agreed, because as a party that supported the various governments that have built what is possibly the best system of social protection of those who can of course exist in the state and possibly in Europe, as a Basque national party that is very clear that the future goes through the guarantee of the dignity of those who are most unprotected, it hurt us enormously not only to establish that guarantee in the form of law, but above all the intransigence of those who prevented us from participating in this agreement. Today that pain has become a certain degree of satisfaction, and it has sufficed the acceptance of a compromise amendment, of a simple amendment in the House of Territorial Representation, in the Senate, so that through this agreement there is corrected a deviant centralizing of the bill that, being so important and so transcendent, despite everything, had not had enough sensitivity to try also to aggregate the efforts, support and contribution of the Basque Nationalist Party. And on the subject, I must say that this is a law that advances in substantive aspects of the child protection system not only in the face of violence, but also in the setting of guidelines, milestones that draw a scenario of comprehensive care for children that is essential if we want to build with them and for them a more just society, more solidarity, more aware of the need to care for the most unprotected, the most vulnerable and also to protect our future. Because it is a milestone in domestic legislation to define a code of rights for children and adolescents, as is also pointed out by the socially required conduct for the protection of the safety of minors. Because it is important to design a protection strategy against violence, and more so is the call to engage in such protection to how many people or institutions should - and not only can - participate in it. Because it is very well to involve the Administration, as it is its obligation and could not be otherwise, but it is even more important - and it is from the law itself - that the family be projected to be the place where any protection system is born and perfected, even though it may be the most risky environment for a few minors. Because involving the educational, health and social services sectors is one of the key elements that can best respond to risk prevention, but also to the damage caused by the phenomenon of violence against children and adolescents, as well as police services. Therefore, the specialization of all of them should be called for as a vertebral element in the intervention of their agents, so necessary to adequately address problems of such specific, hard and needy contours of persons trained in all those areas of the Administration. I shall return to the amendments again. With regard to the specific measures introduced in the process of amendments in the Senate, my group understands that the bulk of them are technical improvements and precision of criteria, which are easily available. We stressed some issue, such as the extended family, in Article 2.ñ), which we are going to reject as one of the few exceptions, but the bulk has received the support of our group. I am going to expand on the one that justifies the change of position of my group, the amendment and subsequent compromise with regard to the seventeenth final provision, concerning the competition titles issued to regulate each of the sections of the legal text, which now show respect for the competences of the autonomous communities, in front of a text, that of the Congress, which did not do so. This provision, and having regard to the matters concerned, points out the complementary nature of this law in the fields of Chapters II, III, VII and XII of this Title III, i.e. in matters affecting the levels of action, the family sphere, social services, data protection, and without prejudice to others such as health care, education or data protection, which already contained determinations in that additional provision which respected existing competition titles. It is a text that, in the end, having regard to the object of the Chamber of Territorial Representation, has managed to remedy the indisputable error of leaving out of the agreement the architects of the main system of social protection for children existing in the State. Ladies and gentlemen, that would have been a big mistake. I repeat, this party has supported over decades the governments that have built the best social protection systems that exist not only in the State, but also in our most immediate cultural environment. It would have been a tremendous mistake not to correct the law in order to try to approach our competitive postulates and thus allow our agreement. As Mr Echenique told me a moment ago, today we are going to put in the Official State Gazette one of the best laws, a law as important as this, and we all welcome it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u7	Thank you very much, Mr Barandiaran. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Giménez Giménez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u8	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are talking again about the organic law on comprehensive protection of children and adolescents from violence, and the first thing I do is to congratulate ourselves on the work we have done in both Houses. The various parliamentary groups have been able, both in Congress and in the Senate, to work side by side and to improve the norm. Any rule can even be improved once it is published, but I believe that the result, the tone of work, is why we should congratulate all those we have participated in. With this, the first thing I want to do is thank the comrades. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a legislative step forward in the protection of children and adolescents from all forms of violence, in accordance with the Convention on the Rights of the Child, and also taking into account the recommendations made by the Committee on the Rights of the Child itself to our country. A law that, as we said at the time, is designed for our children, who are one of the most vulnerable sectors of our population, and which also requires all our work and effort, effort that must continue. We must be clear that this law is a starting point, a starting point for improving the situation of children, and today I would like to put on the table some of the outstanding challenges we face in the area of childhood and adolescence. We have significant challenges, such as child poverty, which we have been making progress on. This law deepens in situations of violence, and if we have a broad perspective of violence, social exclusion, severe poverty affecting children, it is a form of violence. That is one of our challenges: to address child poverty well. I would also like to look into something that I have always been very concerned about, which is the high school failure suffered by many children in our country. When you filter and see what kind of profile these boys and girls have that school failure, which is then the only thing that it does is to condition the development of a life worthy of a whole new generation, we also see that they are boys and girls who live in socio-economically very vulnerable households, which brings here two challenges of work for this House: we delve well, in a serious, respectful and rigorous way, into child poverty and school failure, because look, ladies and gentlemen, in forty years of work of the Socialist Party and the People's Party have not been able to have a good educational pact and a serious measure to address this problem. They have been patched, but no serious measures have been taken. So those are the challenges I think we need to go deeper into. In addition, we need to go deeper into this new plan, in these European funds for Recovery, Transformation and Resilience, which talk about leaving no one behind; that it is not an advertising phrase, please, that it is a phrase with specific measures; that in each of the components there is a specific line for vulnerable sectors, that there is a specific component for children, because at present, both Component 21 and Component 22, which speak of education, which speak of inclusion, do not establish a specific measure, a specific component for children. So let us take advantage, let us do things right, and that is what I believe must condition the whole development of our policies. I believe that the observations made to us by the Committee on the Rights of the Child, the various organizations at the national level, the latest results, where we saw that we had not even exceeded the poverty rates of the 2008 crisis, have to reflect on what the current situation is: a great crisis experienced by COVID, a great problem that we now have to solve. Thanks to all the work, all the effort and vaccines, we will be able to overcome the health crisis, but the social crisis comes to us, ladies and gentlemen, the social crisis comes to us, and it will go through the lives of many children. Therefore, I really encourage us to put on our batteries. Have we put our batteries on minimum vital income? Well, look, doubtless. I would love to be here saying that minimum living income is a shield that is actually bearing fruits, but only relative fruits; relative fruits because it is not reaching who it has to reach; relative fruits because we have been in this House for more than a year, and we have not come to close the minimum living income; because, moreover, there are families that remain outside; because, moreover, there are families that currently charge a ridiculous amount of minimum living income. What is it that's causing? Poverty, and that poverty is not solved. But we have also been working for over a year, and at no time has there been talk of inclusive itineraries in the minimum living income. Is that how we're gonna solve situations and establish shields? Your Honor, I am so much more demanding when we talk about poverty and the removal of that poverty from the homes where there are many boys and girls in this situation. Do we eliminate the dependent child benefit? We've asked for it as an asset and a liability. Let's support parenting, support childhood, support birth, improve child support, and reintegrate into our system. As you see, I come with proposals for work, because we work well on this children's law; we work on it, as I said, all parliamentary groups; we put in place good measures; you know that I am proud of the cessation of responsibility of the Administration that established Citizens in that proposal to extend it to twelve months, that the prescription of this type of people who have the right to report these cases is from the age of thirty-five. It seems to me that all these kinds of measures are important. There have been many technical improvements in the Senate, which is why our parliamentary group is going to support them, but I also want to stop at one of the compromise amendments, which I believe has had debate and which we have worked on. It is the establishment of an amendment to the Organic Law regulating the criminal liability of minors, in relation to some of the issues of article 59, which states that an exceptional assessment - it has to be made clear that we have assessed it on an exceptional basis - when a minor can be subjected. Mechanical restraint will be avoided - I want to make this clear because I know that there has been concern about this issue - and in those cases where there is a use of containment measures, the prosecutor's office will be informed, too, juvenile courts will be informed and the minor himself will be subject to medical supervision. In terms of legal certainty and the protection of minors, I would like to make it clear that this transaction in which we have participated makes clear and assessed when such measures can be used. I end up like I started, congratulating us because today is a day for childhood. I want to congratulate the Children's Platform...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u9	Mrs. Giménez, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u10	...and all the organizations that have helped us in this work. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u11	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, first of all, Mrs Sabanes Nadal.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u12	Today, the comprehensive protection of children and violence law that makes us better as a country ends, which aligns us with the European, international and constitutional mandates of the Convention on the Rights of the Child. It is also a warning to the deniers of international child law. It is a long-awaited text and worked by the organizations. We want to thank each and every one of them especially for their improvements and contributions in the passage of the law through Congress and the Senate. With the law we send a strong message, ladies and gentlemen: violence against children is neither admissible nor tolerable in any space, in any sign, in any speech, in any campaign, in any Parliament and under any personal and social circumstances. Freedom of expression does not cover hate speech, and less so with boys and girls, with childhood. Finally, I would like to highlight the work of our group, More Country-Greens-Equo, and all the groups in this House who have worked to improve the law. We have succeeded in recognizing that girls suffer specific violence because of the mere fact of being girls; improvements in schools and in the updating of social networks. In these days, images of children in Gaza, but also of children arriving on the coast of Ceuta, are horrifyingly impacting us. This law places particular emphasis on the fact that children cannot be stripped of their clothes to find out their age, thus avoiding violating their right to privacy and dignity. Ladies and gentlemen, thanks to this law, we are a more worthy country...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u13	Thank you, Mrs. Sabanes.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u14	... Something we have to celebrate the whole House on this very important day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u15	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the same parliamentary group, Mr Miquel i Valenti has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u16	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies; good morning, ministers. With the vote on this law - we assume that the text that comes to us from the Senate will come forward - this House amends its little mistake this week and its lewdness in protecting the weakest groups. We start the week with bad news, the non-processing of the trans law, and we end it with good news, the approval of this initiative that begins long before this law begins to walk in this House. It begins with the work of entities that have been fighting for years, years and years and guaranteeing the rights of the children of this country, continued with the creation in this House of the Commission to protect children's rights and today takes one more step - it is not a final step, but one more step - with the vote of this text that guarantees rights, that updates legislation and that approves our legislation to that of the best States in order to guarantee the rights of children. We abstained from voting on this initiative in the House before it went to the Senate, and we argued our abstention saying that the measures we had proposed, and that they were to a large extent amendments that came from the illustrious Col·legie de l'Advocacia de Barcelona, which guaranteed the rights of the child throughout the judicial process, had not been fully incorporated. We also argued our abstention saying that on a competitive issue it was very difficult for us to vote in favour, and at the same time we said that on the very content of the law, which we share almost, almost in its entirety, we did so with our hearts a little divided. With the Basque Group's compromise amendment which, as they have argued, guarantees the rights of the autonomous communities, which are those who know the reality, which are those who have been working on various initiatives for decades, as is the case with the Generalitat de Catalunya, we can celebrate our vote in favour of this text and thus put a sweeter end to the processing of this initiative. We therefore welcome the fact that this law can move forward, we welcome the vote in favour and we thank the work of so many entities for making this a reality today. We thank them for their work and ask them to continue to monitor us and to continue to press us so that this law does not remain in a simple text and becomes a reality as soon as possible. Thank you all very much, ladies and gentlemen, for your work. I think we can be fully satisfied with what we are doing here today because it makes sense to us as representatives of the citizens. Thank you very much, President. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u17	Thank you very much, Mr. Miquel. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Finally, Mrs Illamola Dausà has the floor for the Plural Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u18	Good morning. Thank you very much, Madam President. Paraphrased Senator Mayte Rivero, of Junts per Catalunya, in defense of her amendments a few weeks ago: Societies that do not protect their elders and children, mutilate wisdom and deny their future; they are societies that are doomed to failure. In the process in this House we said that this organic bill was good but improveable, and we therefore tabled amendments. Finally, we were not able to vote in favour, as they invade the powers of the Generalitat de Catalunya. That dichotomy - a good, but always improveable law, and a decentralization - made us finally feel - has been said by other groups - heart sour partio at some point. In the process in the Senate, various of our amendments are being negotiated, and I detail what we think is essential. On the one hand, the protection of the image of the minor beyond his death, that is, always, which is logical because it is implicit in the very objective of this norm, and also and above all - which has also been said - in the support of the competences thanks to the agreement between Junts per Catalunya, PNV and Geroa Bai - sine qua non condition for our affirmative vote, because it is a law that covers not only what but also how - which was indispensable to ensure the preservation of the competence of the Generalitat. This guarantee of non-competition is the one that allowed Junts per Catalunya in the Senate to vote in favour of the text, and it is also the one that will now allow us, Junts, to change our sense of vote now that it has returned to Congress and move from the initial abstention at the time to the favourable vote. Working together and listening to everyone is what makes it possible to include the different sensitivities and makes it easier for us to be the ones who ultimately do not add to this draft Organic Law on Comprehensive Protection of Children and Adolescents from Violence. It is desirable, from our point of view, in a democratic state that the rules should not be adopted by the minimum required, but with the maximum possible consensus, as it reflects more faithfully the feeling of the whole of society. Today we adopt a law on the protection of children and adolescents as terrible images of Ceuta, Gaza and other parts of the planet come to us; images that are sadly not exceptional. Let us hope that for all these victims and, above all, for the children, we will be able to find a solution among all of them and offer them a worthy future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u19	Thank you, Mrs. Illamola. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Carvalho Dantas has the floor for the Republican Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u20	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. It is a special honour for this Member to be here today, in this rostrum, because there are few more important things in life than defending children and adolescents against all forms of violence. Before I enter into the content of the law, I would like to refer to two situations which, in our view, are of extreme injustice and a violation of the rights of children and adolescents, which are equally important and perhaps even more urgent. The first is that today in the Spanish State there are 147,000 children and adolescents in irregular administrative status; there are 147,000 children who are not, do not exist, who are not for the public authorities. The second is that in recent days many hot returns have been made from children and adolescents in Ceuta. It is a great sadness, a great lack of humanity that today we are adopting a law of these characteristics while deporting in warm, we return in hot heat children who arrive swimming, children who arrive exhausted at the borders of the Spanish State. Having said that, which is not a small thing, let us go into the matter. I begin, as it could not otherwise be, with a special thanks to the Children's Platform, which in 2009, 2009!, included the proposal of this law in the supplementary report to the United Nations Committee on the Rights of the Child, and today we are voting on it. In the Republican Group we are very pleased to pass this law today, because from now on there will be tools needed to protect children and adolescents from violence and in an integral way, which is very important. It is also very important to say that this law is the result of the work of many political formations; above all I want to highlight the work in the search for consensus of many, many people and many entities - hesitated to the Platform for Children, but I could quote many more, as the Member of the Citizens' Group has done before - consensuss with social organizations and experts because without this participation it would be impossible to make such a law. I would like to highlight some of the achievements that we have achieved among all of them. First, the statute of limitations on sexual abuse of minors, which will not begin until the victim reaches the age of thirty-five, with a compromise amendment that we have achieved a few parliamentary groups in extremis, basically two hours before the start of plenary here a few weeks ago. I especially thank the victims who have fought to the end. Secondly, the prohibition of integral nudes and genital explorations or other particularly invasive medical tests for the determination of the age of underage migrant persons. Another achievement is the ban on the use of mechanical restraint in child and adolescent protection centers; in 2019, young Ilias Tahiri died tied to a bed with a lot of people on it. False parental alienation syndrome is eliminated. It is also obliged to use the pre-established test up to the age of fourteen to avoid revictimization. It also incorporates the duty of all citizens to report any signs of violence against children, which is very important. Intersectorality, bullying, violence against vulnerable groups, violence through the Internet is addressed. The right of the child to be heard and given his or her opinion, as stated by the Committee on the Rights of the Child, is also strengthened and the protection of children without parental care, those within the centres and under the protection system is strengthened. In short, ladies and gentlemen, with this law, children and adolescents will feel more heard, more protected and more defended. However, since it is a consensus law, some issues that are essential for the Republican Group have been left out and others that we reject have been maintained. I want to highlight three of them. The Act continues to grant the status of official authority to social services and the Children's Platform explains that this may further unbalance the power relationship between the Administration and children and adolescents and their families in administrative procedures. It is an amendment that was not accepted. Amendments have been rejected from five political groups seeking to comply with the comments of the UN Committee on the Rights of the Child on bullfighting violence to prevent the harmful effects of bullfights on children. The Committee recommends that the participation of children under the age of eighteen as bullfighters and as a public in bullfights be prohibited, ladies and gentlemen. It is a great shame that this issue has not been included in the law on the protection of children and adolescents; it is very clear that the Taurus lobbies are a state structure. By the way, thanks to the associations that have fought on this issue. Finally, the PSOE has rejected a transactional amendment signed by six political formations for administrations to seek housing solutions. It is a shame that a child protection law allows for eviction and does not seek housing solutions for minors. Despite all this, Republican Left is going to vote yes. I would like to express our gratitude to the thousands of people who have worked for years to make this law a reality. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u21	Thank you, Mrs. Carvalho. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Muñoz Dalda has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podem-Galicia in common.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u22	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, for decades, activists, non-governmental organizations and international bodies have insisted on the need to equip advanced democracies with tools to protect children and adolescents, and thus to solve once and for all the historical debt we have with them. The pandemic has only aggravated the situation of child abuse, which was already alarming and often invisible, since it occurs mostly in private settings. We are convinced that this long-awaited law represents a new paradigm of recognition in the defence of the rights of protection of children and adolescents and that it will place our country at the level of the highest international standards, thus complying with the requests of the Convention on the Rights of the Child, as well as the Treaty of Lisbon, our own Constitution and of course the Sustainable Development Goals of Agenda 2030, which required us to adopt a law to protect children in an integral way from any form of violence, similar to the Law against Gender Violence, guaranteeing the rights of children and adolescents throughout the Spanish territory and which will strengthen the best interests of the child as the guiding principle of legislation. This law also deepens the consideration of childhood and adolescence as subjects of law and not only as objects of protection. In addition, its comprehensive approach has enabled it to intervene in the field of education and prevention and to establish new tasks and obligations for public institutions in family support, in social services, in the way in which advertising can work, in social networks, in the field of criminal law, etc. With the adoption of this law we send a message of rejection of any form of violence against children, including measures of prevention, detection, assistance and protection. I will then explain some improvements that the Senate has introduced. The conduct of nudes and genital explorations as part of the age determination tests of children and adolescents who emigrate alone to our country in cases where they are not sure of their age will be prohibited. With the prohibition of these methods through the law, Spain responds and responds to the recommendations that have been made for years by both the Ombudsman and the United Nations Committee on the Rights of the Child. From now on, cases such as those of Arcange, a minor girl who arrived in Spain at the age of sixteen in 2017 fleeing from the sexual violence she had suffered since childhood and from the forced marriage to which she was to be subjected in her native Cameroon, and for which the Committee on the Rights of the Child condemned Spain in February of this year. In addition, through the introduction of an amendment to the law, the reform of the age determination procedure for foreign minors who migrate alone is expected to be completed in the next 12 months. In this way Spain ensures the fulfilment of its international obligations and gives precedence to the best interests of the child, his rights and dignity during the conduct of these procedures. Another significant development is that the amendments now introduced in the Senate will substantially improve the regulation of measures to ensure coexistence and security in child protection centres, in specific protection centres for children and adolescents with behavioural problems and in centres for the implementation of custodial measures for minors. In particular, the prohibition of the use of mechanical restraint measures, i.e. measures for the attachment of a minor to an articulated bed, to a fixed or anchored object to the facilities of the centres, is stipulated. From now on it will be avoided to repeat cases such as that of Elijah, the young man who died tied to a bed in the use of these practices of subjection in a child protection center in Almeria in 2019. Only the use of wrist restraints, provided that it is carried out under a strict protocol and it is not possible to prevent, by other means, the serious risk to the life or physical integrity of the minor or of third parties, shall be permitted as an exceptional measure and only applicable in specific centres for the protection of conduct problems and in custodial measures. This exceptional measure may be applied only for an essential minimum period of time which may not exceed one hour. During this time, the minor will be accompanied, and on a continuous basis, by the centre's educator. In any event, the measure shall be communicated immediately to the Office of the Prosecutor, the judicial body and the public body. All these are conditions that children's organizations have requested to be expressly included in the draft law. Another important aspect that is introduced in the Senate processing phase is the creation of the State Council for the Participation of Children and Adolescents, within six months. This amendment responds to a request that has been made by children's organizations for years and implements one of the commitments included in the coalition government agreement. The establishment of the State Council for Child Participation guarantees and develops the right of girls and adolescents to be heard and to have their views taken into account, in line with the principles and rights enshrined in the Convention on the Rights of the Child. The Child Participation Council will be a consultative body that will also enable minors to participate in the process of developing public policies and legislation affecting them. Another amendment concerns protection against media violence. An amendment had been introduced to protect images of minors from birth to after their death, as well as greater cooperation between public administrations and the media in such cases. I conclude as I began, reiterating my gratitude and gratitude for the indispensable work that third-sector organizations, families, activists, have done every day for the knowledge of the daily reality of our childhood and adolescence. We now have more tools to give a strong response, to mitigate the devastating effects of violence on them, by supporting them and allowing them to move towards rehabilitation and inclusion. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u23	Thank you very much, Mrs. Muñoz. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs López Álvarez has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u24	Ramah heard a voice. There were tears and moans. It is Rachel who mourns her children and does not want them to comfort her because they no longer exist. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Thus the Gospel of Matthew quotes the moment when Joseph, the father of Jesus, was warned in a dream that Herod would try to kill Jesus, so that he and his family went to Egypt. When Herod realized that he had been ignored, he gave the order to kill all children under two years of age in and around Bethlehem. According to Matthew, Jeremiah's prophecy was then fulfilled. In the same way you bring, after your process in the Senate, your law Herod wanting to change the rules of a society to take away from us the greatest and most beautiful gift that gives us life, our children. [[applause]] That's right, ours is taken from us and they despise the wards, as in the case of the Baleares girls, of whom we have experienced new abuses in the last few days. You say it is autonomous competence, but is this not an organic law for the entire territory of the State and to protect all children? Be clear, because when you are interested it is state competence and you bring in a block of amendments incorporated in the Upper House for the elimination of the use of force in juvenile centres, but of the abuses to those Baleares-protected girls you do not like us to talk to them. [[Applauds]] You are pathetic, and your policies are deplorable and your laws atrocious, as much as this law on the protection of children and adolescents did not have in this House with the support of the nationalist parties precisely because of competition issues and returns from the Senate with your support because you have managed to introduce an amendment to ensure respect for the competences of the autonomous communities. Cry to heaven, ladies and gentlemen! Respect is due to the victims of terrorism. [[Applauds]] What will the parents think of those children killed by ETA, whose heirs we see sitting every day in one of the armchairs of this House and who are still given privileges! What will these parents think when they know that today with this precisely child protection law they have been granted new patents, by which their children were killed! Today you commit a capital sin. [[Rumors]] And atrocious is also the invasion of Ceuta by which Morocco has challenged Spain, fuelled by its non-existent policies of protecting our borders, our sovereignty, our nation and our homeland. And in that invasion, Morocco, the country you call an ally and the one you water with the money of all the Spaniards for their military rearmament, you know what you've played with? With human lives, he's used minors. 'I, with my eyes, have seen these days newborns with hypothermia.' Is that your child protection? No, that's their false boonist propaganda, because the reality is that Morocco sent a civilian army to Ceuta and used babies for their media to have the perfect humanitarian image with which to sell their false boonism. [[Applauds]] You have no heart! And how easy it is to talk in the distance when it is not your children who cannot go to school because they have been assaulted! His policy, this government's immigration policy, is criminal. And the pandemic is you, your laws, your obsessions. Now the battlefield has brought him into being that our children are not ours, and now they take advantage of the personality of the children, their illusions and the happiness that offered them a future without intentions to confront them between the sexes, confuse them with sex and teach them to question their identity from an early age. In VOX we do not know how to speak in any other way than from the heart, even when we see laws like these, in which their aberrations outrage us. That is why I tell you to have a heart and to be able to react today with this law, for those little innocents who with their entry into force are going to be snatched away from innocence, they are going to be robbed of the possibility of growing naturally, with the most sincere simplicity of frankness, with confidence in their parents, because what you approve today is the creation of crimes by choosing how a father wants to educate his children. To legislate on children by claiming rights with partisan interests is not to protect minors. Who do you want to cheat on? The Child Protection Act does not strive to protect minors. There is no goodness or justice in his law; again and again there is hatred, which now transfer the most innocent and weak, to our children. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, the task and responsibility of educating, guiding, supporting and helping children lies with your parents, and here you continue, creating confusion and now wanting to eliminate the biological link between parents and children, to destroy the most beautiful institution, the family. I finish this intervention with the end of a beautiful story that I read to my daughter every night at her request, don't you think it was a mother's imposition and you want to charge me with some crime! For six years, she never got tired of hearing that 'because she was brave and generous, the Mermaid was rewarded, and since then walks through the seas of the world protecting lovers', because that is the human identity, that of the love on which the family is based. And the family is so strong that you won't be able to with it.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u25	Mrs. Lopez, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u26	They won't be able to take her, they won't be able to destroy her. Although with their interference with this law they try to annihilate their essence, there is one thing they will never be able to change: the fruit of a mother's womb.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u27	Thank you very much, Mrs. Lopez.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u28	That's why... [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u29	Thank you very much, Mrs Lopez, your time is up, I'm sorry. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mrs Redondo Calvillo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u30	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you, President. First of all, I would like to reiterate my thanks to my fellow Members of Congress in the presentation, Alicia and Marga, and in the Senate, Carolina and Welcome, for their work and willingness to help me always; to the different parliamentary groups for their desire to reach a consensus continuously, and, of course, to the children's organizations that sent us all their contributions, because, of course, without their commitment and dedication this law would not be what it is. We have tabled one hundred and thirty-five amendments in Congress and more than one hundred have been tabled in the Senate; some have been admitted literally and others have been negotiated, because the People's Parliamentary Group has understood that the best interests of the child should prevail, although, of course, without renouncing what we considered to be fundamental that had to be incorporated into the law. In this way, we have succeeded in introducing from the Senate that the State Council for the Participation of Children and Adolescents participates in the elaboration of the strategy, that in the conduct of medical tests to determine age it is not possible in any case to produce naked integrals or genital explorations, that the audience of the minor of fourteen years as pre-constituted proof is made through psychosocial teams that support the court in an interdisciplinary way, that in the case of violence against children the dissemination of any kind of image must have the express authorization of heirs or parents, that the image of the minor is protected from his birth until after his death and we have managed to define and strengthen something that was very important to us: the concept of the safe environment, including also the digital environment, to quote some of the incorporations that we have managed to include. Our amendments sought to make this law more accessible, more universal, more secure; it will strengthen prevention, awareness-raising, specialization, detection, assistance and protection of minors from violence. And we have managed to make it a little bit more, but there is still much to be done and many outstanding issues to be developed, such as measures, for example, for the elimination of parental alienation syndrome, the development of the strategy, the different protocols that are contained throughout the law, the obligation to refer the two bills to the courts within one year or, ultimately, the normative development itself and the enforcement of the law. Ladies and gentlemen, it would not be the first time that a good rule has been made and then it remains on paper because its developments are not being carried out or because it is not accompanied by sufficient funding. And in the funding, ladies and gentlemen, we haven't even been allowed in. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, there is evidence that child protection is a priority for the People's Party. I would like to recall that in 2015, with the Government of the People's Party, two laws were passed that modified the system of protection for children and adolescents, so that Spain became the first country to incorporate the definition of the best interests of the child as a fundamental right, and I would also like to recall that this law is beginning to develop in 2017, also with the People's Party, when work began in collaboration with children's organizations such as Save the Children or experts from the University of Comillas, among others, because these works, unquestionably, are the basis of this law. Then, in 2019, the Socialist Party picked it up, brought it with its corresponding report, and last year, Mr. Iglesias, although sincerely, apart from baptizing, did little more, because the contributions to the 2019 to 2020 text are very scarce. When the law came out of Congress it was called church law, Rhodes law, and today even Herod law. No, gentlemen, neither the one nor the other, this law is of each and every one of the children and adolescents around us and of all those children and adolescents who are no longer, but at that time they were victims of some kind of violence and have been waiting for it for a long time today. [[Applauds]] This law belongs to them. And with it we win all, even the children of those people who do not believe in the need of this law, because those children and adolescents will also be protected by it. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to share a concern with you. The first years of a child's life lay the foundation for all its growth in the future; up to three years children need nutrition, protection and stimulation for their brain to develop properly. And poverty is a type of violence that acts decisively in the generation of inequalities, the most disadvantaged children are the least likely to have access to the essential elements for healthy development. In case of abandonment and maltreatment biological response systems can be activated and cause toxic stress that will interfere with your brain development, and as the child grows this stress can lead to physical, mental and behavioral problems in adulthood. However, programmes for boys and girls in early childhood were very few and their funding was even more inadequate, and public investment in early childhood development was very low. That is why we are concerned about education from zero to three years, for which you presented a plan to create thousands of places in an eight-year period, which at that time seemed very extensive, although we are still more concerned now that that period has disappeared. Does that mean we're going to go beyond eight years so that children from zero to three years can be schooled? We are concerned about this low level of funding, and President Casado therefore proposed to allocate 70 million euros to eradicating child poverty. Only a few posts and posts of advisers had to be reduced, and it would have been a real boost to the fight against poverty. But, as you know, it was not accepted, which makes us doubt, at the very least, how high the fight against poverty is for this Government. I want to end with a compliment. Last Saturday, May 15th, International Day of Families was celebrated. With this celebration, the United Nations declares the importance given internationally to the family and serves to draw attention to Governments in the development of public policies, but also to society, in order to make them aware of the problems and needs of the family. The family is fundamental in this law. And it is also so for the People's Party, because it considers it key in all aspects of our life, including politics, so it has always been present in our policies. Our support and congratulations to all families. I'm on my way. Today is a great day because the passing of this law can mean a before and after for the lives of thousands of children and adolescents in our country.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u31	Mrs. Redondo, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u32	But don't forget that without development and budget allocation it will be a hair loss not for us, but for them.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u33	Thank you very much, Mrs. Redondo.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u34	Ladies and gentlemen, if we change the beginning of history, we change the whole history. Let's not just stay here. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u35	Thank you very much, Mrs. Redondo. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, Mr Anguita Pérez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u36	Thank you very much, Madam President. Welcome, ministers. Good morning, everyone. And I say good morning because sometimes it is said by education, almost automatically, and yet today faithfully reflects reality, and is that today is a very good day. It is a good day for parliamentary work, for the work of our General Courts because today in this House we are going to demonstrate the best status of representatives of citizens; that is what is expected of our work. We continue the parliamentary process of the children's law, and we do so when the text comes to us from the Senate with the greatest support of the legislature, showing that there are issues where there should be no friction, the gravity of which for the lives of the people is decisive, is so dramatic and so painful that the only ethically acceptable answer is to make common cause to solve them. It is also a good day for them, for them, for the children and adolescents of our country. Ladies and gentlemen, the dignity of a society is measured by how it takes care of its most vulnerable members, and there is nothing more fragile than the innocence that indissolubly accompanies childhood; neither more fragile nor more valuable nor more necessary to protect, as, by the way, our State Security Forces and Bodies are doing in the last few hours in Ceuta, and as Luna, a Red Cross companion, did, to whom from the Socialist Parliamentary Group we want to send a hug and all our solidarity for all the attacks of hatred simply because she is a good woman, a good person, a good citizen and a true patriot And not the amagogue of Private Abascal, going once again to carve out the need of the vulnerable and return with the baton of the effect called. [[applause]] [[Applauds]] It is immoral and irresponsible; it is immoral because of the lack of empathy and solidarity with the most vulnerable, and it is irresponsible because in no way do grandiose, empty and catastrophic speeches or statements help, and because when you see at the border a guy who has been paying a great salary all his life without having worked, ladies and gentlemen, that could have an effect called. That could give rise to an effect called! [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, as a society we have become aware of the protection of the most vulnerable, which we believe is obvious, but it has not always been so. For centuries childhood was valued in relation to its social utility, and not as a vulnerable group to protect. It was relatively recently when society began to be aware of the cruel and unfair situation that was taking place in the area of child protection, when the first movements for children's rights were born and, consequently, legislation began to be enacted for their recognition. Unfortunately, however, it is not enough just to declare the existence of rights, but they must be properly legislated, properly protected and properly developed. This organic bill is called upon precisely to do so, so that those rights are not merely a declaration of good intentions. After its passage through this House and the Senate, the resulting text is more complete and more ambitious and forms a true milestone. This is also thanks to the vital contributions that civil society has made, enriching this bill. This brings together many claims that these entities have been claiming for years. It is essential, and in this case it has become apparent, to legislate with the hands of the associations and sectors involved in order to have a broader and deeper view of the issue in question. This organic bill takes steps to address a very complicated reality. We know that violence and abuse against minors are not as evident as in the past; they are mostly door-to-door, surrounded by almost impenetrable silence, and on many occasions even children are not fully aware of their victim status. Fortunately, at times pure childish intuition helps them to understand that something bad happens to them, even if they are not able to understand it. That is why we want to listen to them and to them, to hear what that intuition tells them. Thus, ladies and gentlemen, an amendment is incorporated from the Senate that increases social participation with the creation of the State Council for the Participation of Children and Adolescents as an advisory body. This measure is important because the basis of respect for the dignity of the other is to listen to him, not to deny the use of his own voice. On the other hand, other equally valuable amendments are added, such as the elimination of genital exploration and the integral nakedness in age determination tests or the regulation of the use of force in juvenile centres. These measures are in addition to the already important ones that were previously in this text, such as, for example, the increase in the prescription of serious crimes, which, as you know, goes from eighteen to thirty-five years, or'avoiding the revictimization of victims and helping to create safe environments in the family, in school, in sports centres, in leisure places and also, and of course, in the increasingly dangerous virtual world, and there is also the prohibition of the use of false parental alienation syndrome in any judicial process. Overall, the draft law addresses and responds comprehensively to the task of raising awareness, prevention and intervention about the violence that our children and adolescents may experience, putting us at the forefront among countries in terms of legislation on child prevention. And I would like to thank and acknowledge the immense work of those who considered responsible for this collective success: first of all, our public services, our public professionals, who have been guaranteeing and protecting our children for decades; organised civil society to demand a regulatory framework such as the one we are going to adopt; the Government, dear ministers, chaired by Pedro Sánchez, who once again demonstrates the commitment in lawmaking for those who need it most, and also the colleagues and colleagues of the rest of the parliamentary groups who have worked tirelessly to make this law a reality: Mary, Alicia, Isabel, Mertxe, Sergi, María Carballo, Sara, Iñigo, Lucía; our senators in the Senate, speakers of this law; and also the parliamentary group for helping us and advising us in every and every complicated moment of this law, as well as my colleagues in the Committee on Children, Adolescents and Social Rights, led by my dear colleague Sonia Guerra, for the immense work that has not been done by my colleague and friend, and my friend. [[applause]] [[applause]] I want to thank you for the work you have done all these years to dignify people's lives, from the moment of the beginning in our lives, as this law demonstrates, to the last of our days, dignified each and every one of our vital stages. I conclude, Madam President, by insisting on the satisfaction that we must feel today that we have collaborated and participated in the drafting and adoption of this bill, because with it we are being useful, and that is every mission entrusted to us. Once and for all today we see the thick layer of complicit silence in the face of any case of violence against children and adolescents.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u37	Mr. Anguita, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u38	Again, ladies, very good morning. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the Socialist Group, ladies and gentlemen, on the ground]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u39	Thank you very much, Mr. Anguita. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] On behalf of the Government, I call on the Minister for Social Rights and Agenda 2030. Minister of Social Rights and Agenda 2030: Thank you, President. [[Belarus Urteaga]] Good morning, all of you. Today is a very important day for our country not only because of the final adoption of this law, but also because in the next debate we will approve the full legal recognition of persons with disabilities. I did not want to fail to mention this because the will of persons with disabilities will finally be respected, thanks to the final adoption of this law, which will ensure equality before the law for persons with disabilities. Ladies and gentlemen, when we adopted in this House on 15 April the opinion of the organic law for the integral protection of children and adolescents from all forms of violence, I ended my speech by asking them to continue to improve this law in the Senate to strengthen it and make it even better, and that is where I want to start today, thanking the Members who have worked tirelessly to improve this text, but also the Senators, who I know have also worked hard to make this law better today than we have brought it to this House. Thank you so much for that tireless work. Today we adopt this law, and this is a fundamental milestone in our country because for the first time, the protection of children and adolescents against all forms of violence is comprehensively regulated. Beyond the concrete measures, to which I will also refer later, I believe that the greatest success of this law is to send a clear and unequivocal message to Spanish society that, regardless of the social origin, gender or skin colour of children and girls, no form of violence towards them and girls is acceptable in a state worthy of the name of democracy. This law will probably not open doors tomorrow nor will it occupy many minutes of television, but I can say, without any doubt, that it is an essential step, which shows that politics can, must and will improve the lives of the people of our country. I would like to ask you, from now on, that the public administrations, the political forces and the social actors should work with the citizens as a whole to fully deploy the possibilities of this law, that we should deploy its scope so that, from tomorrow, the children of this country will begin to notice its effects. As I said, significant improvements have been incorporated during the Senate process, which I wanted to refer to. For more than twelve years in this country, foreign children who arrive without a family have been stripped of their clothes and, depending on the size of their breasts, pubic hair or genitals, in addition to other tests, their age is determined. I was elected to this House for the first time in 2015, and since then my personal commitment has been known to end these practices once and for all, and that commitment has been unwavering. I have always thought that these practices violate children's rights and that, if they were known, the citizens of this country would not be well advised that this would be done to children who migrate alone and reach our borders. I think time has given me reason. When the other day an amendment was passed in the Senate to ban the naked integrals in the procedure of determining age, social networks were filled with hundreds of people who were stupefied thinking about how this could be done in a democracy in the 21st century in Spain. Well, I want to say to all these people today that this is forbidden from this moment on thanks to the initiative of this government and thanks to the majority of this House, which will make it possible. [[Applauds]] Another development that this law is going to include is the prohibition of the use of mechanical restraint, i.e. we will prohibit the tying or attachment of a minor to a camera or to a fixed point anchored in the facilities of a juvenile centre. This was also done in our country, and the Ombudsman has repeatedly asked us to prove this practice. From now on it will be forbidden to repeat cases such as Ilyas, the young man who died tied to bed in a child protection centre in Almería in 2019. For Ilyas and for all the boys and girls in our country, this will never be possible again. [[Applauds]] Finally, another of the most relevant and least known aspects of this law is that we are going to create the state council for the participation of children and adolescents. This council is called upon to play a key role and to allow us to listen to children, to listen to their proposals, to listen to their ideas in drawing up the public policies that affect them and all the public policies that take place in this House. The participation of boys and girls in public policies is essential for their usefulness and respect for their rights. Therefore, today I want to convey a message to the children of our country, and that is that this law is yours, make it yours. With this I do not mean that you defend it too much or that you say that it is perfect, on the contrary, be critical with it, evaluated and, once we deploy it, tell us what is missing or what we need to improve. We are here to listen to you and to work for you and for you. [[Applauds]] These improvements that we include today add enormous value to this law, along with other issues that were already included and to which the spokesmen of the groups have also referred. The increase in the time for prescribing crimes of sexual violence against boys and girls, to start counting once the victim reaches the age of thirty-five, to ensure that children and adolescents are heard in the files of their interest or that they can report for themselves These are some of the improvements that were already incorporated and that reveal that this law is going to mark one before and one after in the protection of children and adolescents in our country. This law deploys an unequivocal approach to rights, which is essential to promote what has to be the main success of this law: the promotion of a cultural change that implies a unanimous and unequivocal rejection of any form of violence against children by all citizens. In addition, we have been able to crystallize the gender perspective in this text, something I would like to thank, in particular, the Minister for Equality, because without her tireless work it would not have been possible to incorporate these improvements so clearly in this text. [[Applauds]] This law finally puts an end to the validity of a label that was macho and scientific, the parental alienation syndrome, installed without any foundation for years in our country. This false syndrome has been used in court proceedings and judgements, trying to establish that the rejection of the father manifested by boys and girls was due to maternal manipulation. This has discredited the testimony of boys and girls and created a framework of total impunity. This has been the case even in cases where children and girls were reported as being sexually abused or abused by the father himself, with the very grave danger and consequences that this entails. Well, with this law we put an end, at last, to the false syndrome of parental alienation, which will also be banned in our country. [[Applauds]] Secondly, an absolutely key element is that the suspension of the regime of visits to the father should be strengthened in all cases where the child has witnessed, suffered or lived with manifestations of male-based violence, because boys and girls are not spectators of male-based violence, they are direct victims. This measure makes this recognition a reality and, above all, sends a clear and clear message that I want to reiterate: an abuser will never be a good father. I repeat, an abuser will never be a good father. [[Applauds]] I want to move peace of mind to the spokesman of the People's Party. The financing of this legislation is foreseen from the very beginning in the economic memory. This is how this Government works, rigorously, making the best proposals and also ensuring their funding so that they can be implemented. More than €70 million is foreseen in this law so that it can be deployed to the maximum. This Government does take the rights of boys and girls seriously. [[Applauds]] Of course, this law is an absolutely collective achievement of many mothers and many parents. Today we could not be adopting this rule without the tireless work of children's organizations, which have been demanding this legislation for years, and thanks also to the work of many people with political responsibilities - many of you are here today - to whom I would like to express my absolute gratitude for that tireless work. But I wanted to thank you especially for your efforts to James Rhodes, because I believe that if the law bears his name precisely, it is for his commitment and dedication; because I believe that without his work this law would not have seen the light in our country, and it is fair to recognize it. Thank you, James, for that dedicated work. Ladies and gentlemen, what we are doing here today, adopting legislation that is pioneering in the world and that is going to make Spain the international leader in guaranteeing the rights of children, is a fundamental step. This is one of those days when we can be very proud of our country and of a citizen who has a special sensitivity to the rights of children. Today we can say that we are doing real politics, politics with capitals, politics that really changes people's lives and gives true meaning to the word democracy. Therefore, I do not want to end without telling the people of our country that they are listening to us that we never stop doing politics from activism, from institutions, from our neighborhoods, from associations, from social networks. Any action to change things for the better, don't be told otherwise. This is why childhood is a law in our country today. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist parliamentary groups, Confederal de União Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal and Republican, and of the members of the Government present, standing]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u40	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker should disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Draft law on the protection of personal data processed for the prevention, detection, investigation and prosecution of criminal offences and the enforcement of criminal penalties. [[File number 121/000046]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u41	We turn to the next item: amendments adopted by the Senate to the draft Organic Law on the Protection of Personal Data processed for the purpose of prevention, detection, investigation and prosecution of criminal offences and the enforcement of criminal sanctions. Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor on behalf of the Basque Parliamentary Group. [[EAJ-PNV]] [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, if you want to leave the Chamber, please do so as quickly as possible in order to continue the debate. [[Rumors]] And I'm asking you again to be quiet, please. Mr. Legarda, anytime.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u42	Yes, thank you very much, President. We are discussing the amendments adopted in the Senate regarding the draft organic law on the protection of personal data, which transposes Directive 2016/680 into domestic law, amendments tabled by the Basque Group in the Senate and which are the same as we defended before this plenary last month and which now come back to us approved; amendments which contribute to the tuitive direction of European legislation on the protection of personal data and whose purpose is to avoid, inter alia, an unfair and unfair use of such data towards its holder, especially with regard to police, judicial, criminal and prison cooperation. The first of the amendments, to Article 22 (1) (h) and (2), is aimed at improving the rights of the data subject, and in particular the right to know whether his data are subject to automated processing, the algorithms and logics applied, the possible consequences that their processing may have, and to obtain a copy of his data subject to automated processing. It has been said by the author of the draft that this constitutes an over-restriction of the directive and that these rights cannot be imported from the European Data Protection Regulation. However, the Basque Parliamentary Group considers, as in the Senate, that this is not an obstacle to incorporating these citizens' rights into the organic law that we draw up to transpose the above-mentioned directive. It is not an obstacle, first of all, because Community directives and regulations have different purposes. The directives approximate the laws of the Member States, but with a threshold of convergence between them lower than that of the regulations. Thus, while the regulations tend to cover regulation in an area with almost no room for manoeuvre for States, the directives only seek to establish a common minimum denominator that does not make it impossible for States to regulate beyond, especially when with a subject such as the protection of personal data, which is a subject of rights to personal and family privacy, as stated in article 18 of the Constitution, the aim is to improve the protection of these fundamental rights. This would be the second reason, the material, for us to approve the amendment to paragraphs 1 (h) and 2 of Article 22, as I said to them, the right to know by the data subject whether their data are subject to automated processing, the algorithms used and the possible consequences that the processing may have, and without it being said that this would endanger an investigation, public safety or the very safety of the State, or harm the rights and freedoms of other persons, because if this happens, the controller and the authority may deny that information and any other information, as stated in the directive and article 24 of the draft law, which has not been amended in any case. Ladies and gentlemen, we believe that what we are dealing with in the amendment that we are now discussing is extremely important, because automated treatment through artificial intelligence and automatic learning means that mathematical programmes capable of learning are capable of making predictive inferences about the evolution of a person's behaviour, assessing their current state or deciding whether to implement a set of actions in the face of specific situations. Ladies and gentlemen, it is well known that the critical aspects of artificial intelligence lie in the biases, not necessarily malicious, but contained in the computer design of inference processes, i.e. algorithms, and also in human bias, which consists in acristically admitting the results of artificial intelligence, assuming a principle of authority derived from the expectations created by such systems. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, it is important that we incorporate in this organic law the right of the person to know, namely whether his personal data are treated in the way I have described, and this is for the knowledge and information of the person concerned, which is necessary in order to be able to exercise his rights of complaint and rectification if the algorithms used had biases with disturbing and unfair results for his rights. In short, ladies and gentlemen, we are calling for the principle of transparency, the principle of the transparent algorithm in its use by the public administration, which is one of the keys, of freedoms and fundamental rights in a globalised society and with automated processes of prediction and decision-making that affect people and their rights, that is, also, ladies and gentlemen, all of us. The second and last of the amendments adopted in the Senate concerns Article 36(4). Now, following the amendment, the processing of high-risk data for the rights and freedoms of individuals is avoided, in particular by the use of new technologies and mechanisms, without being previously informed by the Data Protection Agency as to whether such processing is in conformity with organic law and on the adequacy of the correct identification of high-risk and the measures taken to minimize risks and possibly their possible damage. This changes the meaning given in the draft to the failure to issue the report within the time stipulated by the Data Protection Agency. The project allowed the authority that intended to initiate a high-risk treatment to launch it, after the agency's deadline, to issue the report even without issuing it. In the amended text, this positive silence becomes negative, something much more in line with the purpose of the institution of administrative silence, which is nothing other than to protect the rights of citizens and which is achieved here by preventing automated processing of high-risk data for the rights of citizens from being put into operation without being evaluated by the Data Protection Agency with regard to, as it said, the adequacy of the organic law and the measures envisaged to mitigate or remedy the risks and, where appropriate, the damage even after the deadline for issuing the report, which, on the other hand, we consider will not come to pass, but that in any case the law cannot fail to consider the effects of silence that are more in keeping with the tuitive purpose of both the institution of silence and the protection of personal data, in that they are the expression of the fundamental right to privacy proclaimed in article 18 of the Constitution. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u43	Thank you very much, Mr. Legarda. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs Cepeda. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Gutiérrez Vivas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u44	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. We are here today to discuss amendments from the Senate, as Mr Legarda has rightly pointed out, on the Organic Data Protection Act. I would like to tell you that our group will vote in favour of the two amendments tabled, firstly because, as regards the amendment of Article 36, we believe that we are talking about high-risk assumptions and, therefore, the violation of citizens' rights and freedoms is of particular relevance. In this case we agree with the author of the amendment that administrative silence cannot become a rule that nullifies the continuation of the processing of those data, in which the risk has been considered high. We are therefore fully in favour of this small amendment. [[The lady]] The same is true of the amendment to Article 22, which perhaps seems even more important to us because automated decisions are something we face in our daily future, but in the near future this is going to be even more important. Virtually all information systems are already organized on the basis of artificial intelligence, the use of big data and the processing of data and, therefore, it is clear that it will introduce us into a new era, which is the era of automation and automated decisions. I believe that the definition of profiles, segmentation or even the subsequent automated decision based on algorithms, which will decide on a lot of things that will affect us in our lives, will bring us closer to being more vigilant about users' rights by the Administration. I therefore believe that it seems reasonable that the data subject should have the right to know and obtain certain certitudes about the automated processing to be produced from his personal data. This seems very important to us because, as I mentioned earlier, we are increasingly going to enter the world in which automated decisions are going to govern many of the decisions we are going to make, because virtually the system and the algorithm are going to make them for us. We therefore believe that progress in protecting these rights for users and consumers is very important. He ended up with something a little general about the law. I believe that the debate about this law, which is true that it is a very technical law, a complex law because it speaks of things like automation and algorithms, many things that have to do with our personal data, is increasingly important in the near future, not only because we have talked about treatments and information systems, but also because technology is moving forward and is going to move forward at an ever more rapid pace. This will force legislators to be particularly vigilant in how technology progresses in order to maintain and defend the rights of users and consumers. Therefore, this is a very fast race to be very attentive to. [[The Lord]] I would like to thank all the parliamentary groups for the work that has been done in this organic law. I want to thank the work of our spokesperson on it, of my colleague Edmundo Bal, who I know has been intense and precisely when we are talking about protection, and in addition to this particularly relevant data that have to do with all the criminal and procedural aspects of users, of citizens at the end of the day. I believe that we have done a job, where it is probably difficult to have political recognition on the part of society, but which certainly always leads us to defend the most important interests of the citizen and the consumer. Thank you very much to all who have worked on this law. I believe that we have taken a step forward by adapting this regulation precisely to our legal system and by always ensuring, as we have done before in speaking of the child, for the rights and freedoms of all users, of all citizens. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u45	Thank you very much. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Boadella Esteve has the floor. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u46	Good morning, I'll be very brief. What we are dealing with on today's agenda is the two amendments which remain alive and which are put to the vote. My intervention will only be to support the two amendments that have been tabled. We understand that they are of a technique to highlight, that they are perfectly valid and that point to those theses of good administration, of administrative silence as an element to be valued in the future. Is there anything that generates more uncertainty in citizens than administrative silence? For here it has focused on the area of prevention and research. I did not want to finish the speech without highlighting the seriousness of what we are dealing with. We all know that the transposition of this European directive is very late and that this delay has resulted in a penalty of EUR 15 million plus EUR 89000 per day for each day that this transposition is not carried out. The deadline was May 6, 2018 and we are doing so today, May 20, 2021, 1100 days later. I therefore believe that those who ruled both at one time and the other have to take responsibility here, as this has affected two different-coloured governments. I wanted to state the content of the judgment, which says that the lack or inadequacy of rules ensuring the proper functioning of the area of freedom, security and justice within the European Union - it must be understood - must be considered particularly serious. It is in this particularly serious situation that we have been in these 1100 days, when this transposition of the directive has not taken place. It is therefore important for this law to go ahead, for this area of freedom, security and justice to be created within the framework of the European Union and for it to go ahead with these amendments which are being tabled here today because, beyond technical solvency, they help to further guarantee citizens' rights. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u47	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Pagès i Massó has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u48	Good morning. Ladies and gentlemen, in Junts per Catalunya we welcome the fact that the transposition of the European Directive 2016/680 will soon become a reality. During the parliamentary process, both in this House and in the Senate, we believe that amendments have been made that substantially improve the text proposed by the Executive in such a sensitive area as the protection of personal data for better police and criminal judicial cooperation. We will support the amendments from the Senate. I am not going to expand on a technical justification, because I believe that it has been overexplained by the Members before me. At this point, however, I would like to make it clear that the Government of the People's Party and now the Socialist Party have ceased to function. The deadline for transposition of this Directive expired on 6 May 2018. I repeat for those citizens who are listening to us and believe that they have misunderstood it: the deadline for passing this law did not end on May 6, 2021, but on May 6, 2018. It has therefore been more than three years, 1100 days, as Mr Boadella said. The incompetence of the two major parties that alternate in power in this country has resulted in an exemplary reprimand by the European authorities. The Court of Justice of the European Union has ordered Spain to pay EUR 15 million per day and EUR 90,000 per day until the adoption of this bill. In a country with a youth unemployment of 40% and after a very hard year for small and medium-sized enterprises, Spain will have to pay more than 30 million euros because its government is unable to fulfil its commitments as a member of the European Union. But it is not only the economic issue, but for three years Spanish citizens have been deprived of the protection of this regime that gives them rights and guarantees; they have taken away their rights from Spanish citizens. In Spain, the delay in the incorporation of European directives is not the exception, but the rule. According to the General Council of Economists, Spain takes an average of 12 months longer than the rest of the Member States. Instead of the grandiose speeches on Europeanism that you have every two out of three, the question is: why do they jeopardize the legal architecture of the European Union every time the Commission and the Council adopt a new directive? In conclusion, I think it is important to put in contrast, in the face of this expenditure of EUR 30 million that Spain will have to assume because it has been delayed in the fulfilment of its European duties, the criminal responsibilities that Catalans responsible for external action have to pay; an action by the Court of Auditors disproportionate, absolutely unfair and which, in the end, we find to be manifesting itself as an act of revenge. The big question we want to ask is: Who is going to ask for responsibilities...?
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u49	Your Honor, your time has just ended.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u50	Ten seconds, President. Who is going to ask the members of the People's and Socialist governments for responsibilities...?
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u51	Your Honor, your time is up. Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Carvalho Dantas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u52	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft organic law on the protection of personal data processed for the purposes of the prevention, detection, investigation and prosecution of criminal offences and the enforcement of criminal penalties, as mentioned above, has as its main objective to transpose into Spanish law Directive 2016/680 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data by the competent authorities for the purposes of the prevention, investigation, detection or prosecution of criminal offences or the enforcement of criminal penalties and the free movement of such data. That is to say, it repeals the old framework decision of 2008. It should be stressed that the Spanish State is slow to comply with legal commitments and, in this case, European commitments. It should be said that the delay in its transposition has entailed a flat-rate fine for the Spanish State - it has been mentioned earlier - a coercive fine of 15 million euros and the procedural costs; I repeat, 15 million euros. Between each other, the delay. Let us remember that the People's Party should have transposed this directive before 6 May 2018. I say this again because it is very important to stress: the biggest fine in history that Europe has put on a country, 15 million euros flatter the coasts. It is also important to stress that this directive has the same structure as the General Data Protection Regulation; however, it has the particularity of being much more limited and restrictive and therefore more guaranteeing. In fact, the amendments that will surely be adopted today make it more secure. Although the draft law represents a decisive step towards the effectiveness of international legal cooperation between authorities in different fields - security, prison, taxation, prevention of money laundering, monetary offences, financing of terrorism, securities markets, etc. - and judicial and police authorities at European Union level, it is also worth highlighting our fear that certain fundamental rights of citizens will be violated. The Spanish Constitution gives these rights - to privacy, to non-discrimination, to the image itself - a very important status of maximum protection, and we believe that they could be affected by this project by giving more power to collect, process and store data on citizenship without judicial control and without respecting the right to the presumption of innocence of the persons investigated. However, we obviously understand the importance of having a minimum level of harmonisation in the standards in force in all the Member States of the European Union and of consolidating an appropriate legal framework for the transfer of data in order for effective police and criminal judicial cooperation. On the basis of that dichotomy that I have just explained to you, the law must follow the main objectives of the directive. In particular, the protection of the fundamental rights and freedoms of natural persons, in particular their right to the protection of personal data, in particular in cases where the processing is carried out by the police or judicial authorities for the purpose of preventing, investigating, detecting or prosecuting criminal offences, including prevention and protection against threats to public security. Here we want to make one point and a separate point, because combining the protection of the right to privacy with the need for cooperation implies putting into value the principle of proportionality with all, absolutely all, guarantees that the processing of personal data is proportionate, timely, minimal and sufficient for the fulfilment of the purposes pursued. The new law should facilitate European international police and judicial cooperation under the principle of mutual trust. However, it must guarantee the protection and defence of the rights of all citizens. Our main concern, ladies and gentlemen, is that farce of the 1978 Transition, in which the political files of Francoism did not disappear. From then until now we have had record and evidence of the maintenance of political data files. This is a reality. What cannot be is that belonging to a political group or an association, having a different belief or having a different origin is a reason to be registered today. Finally, we recognize that, following the inclusion of the amendments, the text of the law has become more secure and the safeguarding of the fundamental rights of citizens has been enhanced. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u53	Thank you very much, Mrs. Carvalho. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations We can in common Galicia in common, Mrs Velarde Gómez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u54	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Today we are finally finalizing the parliamentary process of a very important law that has as its axis the protection of personal data of natural persons. The law that calls us today comes with a broad consensus both in this House, in Congress, and in the Senate, and gathers greater guarantees than the European directive that we had to transpose, something that we in our group are very proud of, because we have worked to make that happen. I remind you that this law establishes important milestones, such as a guaranteed period of review every three years of data of a criminal nature. It also provides for a period of 20 years for the storage of data after each three-year review, even when, as an extraordinary measure, the European Directive makes it possible to exceed the ordinary time limits laid down when certain cases of facts such as the non-prescription of the offence or the need for protection of victims occur. It perfectly combines this possibility of investigating criminal offences or offences with the safeguarding of the judicial guarantees of the rule of law. I think we should all congratulate ourselves, ladies and gentlemen, because we have done a good job which is supported by the broad consensus with which this rule was adopted in this House and because it comes from the Senate with only two amendments. With regard to these two amendments by the Basque Parliamentary Group to articles 22 and 36 of the Act, United We can vote in favour of the amendment to article 36, but not in favour of article 22, and I want to argue why. We will vote against because we believe that Directive 2016/680 already limits the access of the person concerned to a number of elements, so introducing some more than the same general regulation involves confusing and mixing different areas for which the European Union has already provided for different regulations. Moreover, it is true that the enlargement they seek with the amendment can have a more secure fund, but we do not understand it to be necessary, because the methods, techniques, protocols of action and tools used by the State Security Forces and Bodies are never public in nature. The content of the European directive also takes into account your concern, but at the same time it is not intended to harm investigations. This legislation must also guarantee the rights of citizens who are victims of crime and protect the right to peaceful coexistence in society. Our group believes that the directive harmonises the right to privacy with the right to security of victims of crime. I would like you to understand that, if that amendment were to come forward, the internal procedures of the ongoing investigation would be shown and this could pose a danger to the investigations carried out and to police work. Nor can we in any case leave open the door for the law to end up unwittingly serving potential criminals for its own benefit against the investigation and the rights of its victims. For your peace of mind, I will tell you that article 14 of the law provides for a general prohibition that all automated decisions not only have a negative legal effect on the person concerned, but simply that they affect him in a substantial way. In addition, the competent authorities shall monitor the operation of these automated and artificial intelligence systems. It is the supervisory authorities themselves - also the Basque agency - who recommend, in fact, not to provide information on the logic applicable for security reasons, in order to prevent this information from being used to launch attacks on the systems concerned. However, we are going to vote yes to the amendment to Article 36 because it expands the text of the European directive and also makes this administrative silence a favourable response to citizens rather than to the administration. When this law is passed, Spain will become part of the international vanguard in the standards and guarantees of data protection and the rights of natural persons, thereby reinforcing a fundamental right such as the right to privacy. I think we can congratulate ourselves on doing a good job, ladies and gentlemen. As has been said here - and I want to repeat it again, although I said it already in the process of approving the opinion in Congress - this law should have been passed in 2018. We know that, but we have to remember that it is the passatism - and I repeat this - of the People's Party that has caused the European Union to impose a fine of EUR 15 million on Spain. Ladies and gentlemen, I understand that there is criticism here of the fact that we have been fined - we too find it incredible that we have come to this point because of the cowardice of the People's Party - but we cannot be equidistant on this issue. The objective fact is what it is and there is no other: the PP must have transposed it before May 6, 2018 - I repeat again, before May 6, 2018 - and did not. All this government is doing is working to fix what the PP didn't do. So that equidistance of both governments in different colors, no. The objective fact is that the PP didn't do his job. I'm on my way. The main differences between an authoritarian regime and democracy are precisely judicial guarantees, the combination of the right to privacy and justice. We therefore welcome the broad agreement with which this data protection law will be adopted. This consensus demonstrates once again - because we have also seen it with the law of children; it is an important day today - that when you want, you can reach agreements to defend the common good. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u55	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Alcaraz Martos has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u56	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. My first words are to support the Civil Guard, the National Police, the Army and the Local Police of Ceuta and Melilla, who are working to ensure the integrity of our borders and the security of the citizens of Ceuta and Melilla. [[Applauds]] My support and encouragement also goes to its citizens and I want to say that Ceuta and Melilla are Spain and will remain Spain, despite whomever. Ladies and gentlemen, since VOX we also want to show our indignation at the 15M. We're indignant, like millions of Spaniards. Do not be confused, ladies and gentlemen, because I am not talking about the 15M of a decade ago, although we are also outraged. I refer to the 15 million euros, 15 million euros for the failure of the People's Party. But, ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE, what a tougher face you have every time your Social Communist Government blames the People's Party for failing to comply with this regulation! You had several weeks until July 20, 2018 to respond to the letter of request and did nothing. Moreover, the inaction negligence of this social-communist government has also led us to a penalty imposed of EUR 89 000 per day, in addition to EUR 15 million. Failure to comply with the transposition of the European directive has not given you any kind of problem. The sanctions that have been imposed on Spain are not going to be paid by all of you out of your pocket; they are going to be paid by the usual Spanish. This sanction today, not including the costs - which we also have to pay - amounts to a total of EUR 22 387 000. Do you know how many families could receive the minimum living income with this fine? It would be 47,693 families who could receive the minimum living income. Ladies and gentlemen, account for how many families in the queues of hunger could be helped by more than EUR 22 million. Then you came here, in this House, to say that we must raise taxes on the Spanish, the quota of self-employed, gas, electricity or even the tax on using roads to improve the services and social welfare of the Spanish. Are you really not blushing when you come to this House to ask for this when you use Spanish money to pay fines that you might have avoided? [[Applauds]] I cannot forget that this directive comes under the umbrella of the unworthy Minister Marlaska. If, since he arrived in the Government, he had been concerned precisely with this sanction as much as he has with ETA's killers and their partners, Bildu's pro-terrestrials, we might at this time have a fine of a much smaller amount. But Minister Marlaska is much more concerned to bring terrorists closer to their homes than the quotas of the autonomous; Minister Marlaskale is much more concerned to pursue VOX than to avoid the queues of hunger; Minister Marlaska is more concerned to walk through the electoral campaign to the director of the Civil Guard than to use those 22 million euros in bulletproof vests to protect the National Police and the Civil Guard. [[Applauds]] Minister Marlaska is more concerned to protect communist partners than to provide 22 million euros for the material needed and demanded by prison officials. Ladies and gentlemen, do you remember this news? [[Shows a press clipping]] While from our group we asked to do skillful the months of July and August 2020 to work precisely on laws like this, in the Ministry of the Interior of this Government what they were worried about was making a placement agency for ETA killers. [[Show another press clipping]] If Minister Marlaska had dignity, which he does not have, he would have resigned irrevocably. We cannot allow this Government and the Ministry of the Interior to become the INEM of the ETA killers, while you waste more than 22 million euros from the pockets of all Spaniards who do not arrive at the end of the month. It's over. To be recorded in this House, although unfortunately Mr Rufián is not here today, as my colleague Pedro Fernández said, who quoted this mention of a mosso d'Esquadra: The Republic does not exist, idiot! [[shows another press clipping]] [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u57	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Pedreño Molina has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u58	Good morning. Thank you very much, Mr Vice-President. Today we are witnessing a debate that should not have come this far, and it is not a matter of wasting time, but of responsibility. It costs us 3 million euros to all Spaniards this return from Congress to the Senate and from the Senate to Congress of the transposition of a directive on data protection for the purposes of criminal offences and the enforcement of criminal sanctions. It is 3 million euros that add up to almost 20 million euros with which Europe has already fined us because the gentlemen of the PSOE and the gentlemen of the government have not done the duties. It is 23 million euros thrown away at the time of the ERTE, the layoffs, the closures of business and the fall of our economy. Ladies and gentlemen, this government continues to surprise us and is getting worse and worse; and, alongside it, the Socialist Parliamentary Group, which supports this government and is unable to contribute anything at all. Today it is his turn to the incompetence of the lords of the PSOE; the incompetence to reach agreements with the rest of the parliamentary groups to incorporate two technical amendments of the Basque Parliamentary Group that improve this draft law on data protection in the criminal field. I don't know if they haven't heard the spokesman for the Basque Nationalist Party. What is the problem so that these two amendments have had this move and have cost us an even greater fine? Don't look for any more excuses. The text of this regulation was discussed in this House on 13 April. It was an absolutely simple exercise, which consisted in transposing a European directive that left the People's Party government virtually complete in 2018, a transposition into a forty-six-page document that we still do not approve after two years at the table of the Minister of the Interior, Minister Marlaska, the worst minister in the history of democracy. [[Applauds]] This had already cost us EUR 20 million for the sanction of the courts of the European Union and today, almost forty days later, the fine has been increased, as you know, at a rate of EUR 89 000 per day of penalty. Take out the accounts, ladies and gentlemen, there are 3 million euros more, in total 23 million euros that we have to pay all the Spaniards for the leniency of this government and for its irresponsibility. This cannot go unnoticed, and we cannot go from point to point on this fact. Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party family, how have you led to the rejection of two technical amendments in Congress and in the Senate and that this continues to cost us more and more money for your incompetence to reach agreements? This is because you, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, are acting under the same modus operandi as Mr Sánchez, who is proposing on the basis of decrees, rather than seeking consensus that will benefit all Spaniards. I decree as the appointment of the former vice president Pablo Iglesias to the parliamentary commission that controls the CNI or decree on labor and tax measures of passive classes in Social Security. By the way, as you know, both of them have been laid down by the Constitutional Court, and what we still have. In short, they are very ineffective, gentlemen of the PSOE. The consequences of the decrees and the haughtiness are that, with the government's incompetence to finish drafting a few pages of a technical directive, there is also the inability to negotiate with the members of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Then goes the spokesman of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and I hope that when he comes up here, in addition to getting involved with the People's Party, he comes with the check, with the check of the 23 million euros of the fine so that we do not have to pay it all the Spaniards. You and your government partners pay for it with your money. Because it is very easy to come here to do nothing when you are playing with money that is not yours, a vital money for many families that have been condemned after this health, social and economic crisis that has been increased by the poor management of this government. Unfortunately, this is already a common practice of this government: to let the deadlines for transposition of European directives pass and that all Spaniards must pay the fines imposed on us. If today they are placed on the European Union's website under the heading of infringements and select the country Spain, they will see that there are already forty directives without transposing them that are already out of date and that, as for this one, they will penalise us and fine us. Oh, my gosh, gentlemen of the PSOE, because you're accomplices to this outburst in the pocket of the Spaniards. I think they have not yet learned of the enormous economic and social crisis that we are experiencing, because we are certainly not going to waste EUR 23 million. The corporal. In any case, we in the People's Parliamentary Group are going to vote in favour of the amendments and the opinion so that we can finally put an end to this nightmare which is now almost three years old. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u59	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Serrada Pariente has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u60	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen of the PP and ladies and gentlemen of VOX, two starting questions. Ladies and gentlemen of the PP, how much did the patriotic police that you set up in the Ministry of the Interior cost us to the Spaniards? How much did it cost us? [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen of VOX, how much does the speech of hatred that they continually pour into this rostrum of the Congress of Deputies cost us for the Spaniards? How much does it cost the Spaniards, gentlemen of VOX? Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, to come here today to say that the Socialist Party has not done its job is to obviate the worst episode that has happened in our democracy, with a health crisis and an economic crisis that has paralysed the legislative life of this House. Moreover, all the initiatives that you have said, Mr Pedreño - there are not forty, there are forty-three - the forty-three, absolutely all come from your time. You did nothing, and on top of that you come here today to ask the Socialist Party for explanations, of what, ladies and gentlemen? Please note that we were here today to talk about a technical issue, because I believe that we have forgotten the technique and have moved directly to the policy of what we are doing, what we are not doing and why the Minister of the Interior is unworthy or not unworthy. Look, there's only one thing you guys overlook, and it's that this interior minister is doing what he's doing is getting rid of the ideological chiringuite you set up within the interior ministry. [[Applauds]] That is why, ladies and gentlemen, you should have more respect for the Minister of the Interior. Or what happens, is that they no longer receive information from within the ministry? What happens, that they no longer have sources within the ministry? Is that the problem you have with the Ministry of the Interior? Be clear, ladies and gentlemen of the PP and ladies and gentlemen of VOX. I am going to try to land the debate on this technical issue, which is what we are dealing with today and what it has to do with it, because today I think it is the third organic law that we are discussing and it is another important law for the citizens of our country. It is an important law because it places citizens at the centre of security action in our country, a law that gives them more rights and more control in order to be able to access precisely the data with which the State Security Forces and Bodies, with which the Office of the Prosecutor and the judges, when there is a criminal offence, can work. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, this is also a law dealing with citizens and placing citizens at the political centre and at the centre of freedoms. Ladies and gentlemen, today we have two amendments coming to us from the Senate. I would like to anticipate that the amendment that speaks of Article 36, the amendment that has to do with administrative silence, is from the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Contrary to what the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party say, we do believe that, although not necessary, it is a timely amendment to incorporate the text and will therefore count on our support. However, ladies and gentlemen, we cannot support the other amendment that is being tabled today, which is the amendment to Article 22, because I will try to give you some fundamental points, but mainly because it is an amendment that is already being developed in the legislative text itself, in the organic law itself, and also in the directive itself. Therefore, add some point or add some paragraph within an article we believe is not enough, as it is perfectly described throughout the articling of the law. This amendment has to do with two questions - Mr Legarda has put them perfectly: the first is to indicate automated decisions as an element for regulation and the second is to provide a mechanism for communication between the administration and the citizen. As I was telling you, both issues are developed both in the law that came out of Congress to the Senate and also in the text of the directive itself. As I also said to you, it is the directive itself which limits the right of access to certain information by the person concerned. Here I would also like to go into another issue that has to do with the uncovered chest support that some of you in this House are giving to the work of the State Security Forces and Corpses. This Article is intended to provide a further guarantee to the State Security Forces and Bodies to carry out their work, because, otherwise, if everyone could have access to the logic of the operation of investigations, from our parliamentary group we believe that the security of all Spaniards would also be endangered. In addition, we also believe that there is no need to introduce a new paragraph to this article - and I refer to point 2 - because this wording proposed at this point on how to facilitate the response of the person concerned to his requests, in the exercise of the right of access, is already contained in Article 12.1 of the directive itself, but, in addition, it is also perfectly developed in Article 20 of the organic law itself, which talks, for example, about informing in a concise and intelligible way, with clear and simple language, trying to use the same means of communication used by the citizen in contact with the authorities. Both the directive and the text of the organic law sent to the Senate contain clear regulations on this issue, so we do not consider it necessary to include this proposal in the final text and therefore, as we have already announced, we will vote against this amendment. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the work of all the parliamentary groups, also the work of the lawyers and the services of the House, as well as the work of my colleagues in this presentation, José Antonio Rodríguez and Sonia Ferrer. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u61	Thank you very much, Mr Serrada. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u62	We turn to the next point, amendments adopted by the Senate to the bill reforming civil and procedural legislation to support persons with disabilities in exercising their legal capacity. Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor in position-setting by the Basque Parliamentary Group. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u63	Yes, thank you very much, President. Today we will take a long step along the long path of participation... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u64	One moment, Mr. Legarda, please. Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet. Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u65	I was telling you, ladies and gentlemen, that today we will take a long step along the long road to full and effective participation in society on equal terms for persons with disabilities. Today we will complete the process of reforming civil and procedural legislation to support the exercise of their legal capacity, a change in civil and procedural legislation that accompanies the change of social sensitivity on disability, as indicated by the New York Convention itself, is a concept that evolves and results from the interaction between persons with disabilities and barriers due to the environment that prevent their full and effective participation on equal terms; a concept that has evolved, as pointed out by the Council of State, from the distant conception as a problem of a heritage nature that is faced with a system of protection based on the incapacitation of the person and the replacement of their will by judicial resolution, through the transition from an individualized guarantee model of measures based on the degrees of disability and the actions to be carried out to the present sensitivity, which contemplates disability as a reality that requires public policies of positive action for the effective integration of the persons concerned into society, and which takes place in instruments that do not imply the exclusion of the disabled but the promotion of their autonomy, but rather than the achievement of the status of their social status, as a consequence of the achievement of the achievement of their social status. In this evolution of the concept of disability, the 2006 New York Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and its optional protocol, ratified by Spain in 2007 and published in April 2008, has been a precursor. He introduced a new idea of disability that has inspired and triggered as a trigger a cascade of changes in our legal system and its interpretation, being the last, so far, the law that we will pass today. The New York Convention, which has been domestic since 2008 following its ratification and publication under article 96.1 of the Constitution, has brought about a genuine revolution in the conception of disability, as it places it in the field of fundamental rights, in the field of human rights. The Convention is therefore considered to be the first human rights treaty of the twenty-first century, which obliges the public authorities, respect for persons with disabilities, to promote their conditions of equality and to remove all obstacles that prevent them under article 9.2 of the Constitution, and since 2008 has been taking place in the various powers of the State and in the various territorial and institutional spheres. As far as this House is concerned, I would like to recall: already in 2011 the amendment to the Convention, the consolidated text of the general law on the rights of persons with disabilities, the worsening of the penalties for crimes committed against them, the possibility of their participation in jury courts, the right to marry on equal terms, the right to vote in elections or the prohibition of forced sterilization. Now, with the amendment of our civil and procedural legislation, we incorporate in them the content of article 12 of the Convention, which mandates States parties to recognize persons with disabilities as having equal legal capacity with all others in all aspects of life, to take appropriate measures to provide them with the support they may need in the exercise of their capacity, to provide safeguards to ensure that such measures respond to their rights, will and preferences, and that there is no conflict of interest or undue influence and that these measures are proportionate and appropriate to their circumstances. I'll finish it, President. We are undergoing a profound change of sensitivity in the way we deal with the treatment of disability, by placing it since the New York Convention - which I remind you is domestic law - in the area of the fundamental rights of these people, which implies their recognition, respect and protection by all public authorities. We are now transforming our civil and procedural order to adapt it to article 12 of the Convention, which has been said to be their heart, the key to the vault, to give them full legal capacity on equal terms in all aspects of civil life. We now amend nine laws that affect civil proceedings in which people are involved throughout our lives: birth, filiation, marriage, separation, family relations, recruitment, trade, succession, legal proceedings and a long time. It is a step in the right direction to equate persons with disabilities in full rights with other people and to promote conditions for them to be real and effective; a step that without the collaboration of organised civil society around these persons with disabilities would have been much more difficult and less focused, so I thank them deeply and sincerely for all their efforts and work; a step, ladies and gentlemen, which cannot be the last. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u66	Thank you so much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, Mrs Giménez.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u67	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, today in this House we are making progress on the rights of vulnerable groups; we have worked in childhood and right now we are debating and giving impetus to another progress on equality, an advance in the recognition of the rights of persons with disabilities. We are moving forward in this recognition of persons with disabilities as rights holders; that I believe is one of the most relevant legal changes, because they are rights holders in making their own decisions. It is a law that has a human rights approach to promote the real equality of persons with disabilities, to respect them in their decision-making when concluding contracts, in terms of wills, in all legal affairs, in their daily lives, in everything we decide. It is a law that takes into account the individual situation of each person with disabilities in order to be able to provide them with the necessary support, that is, we move from a system that replaces persons with disabilities in making decisions to another accompanying one, which I think is legal, and from the rights perspective, it is one of the main changes with which we find ourselves. We comply with the International Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, which states that persons with disabilities have equal legal capacity. Equality, ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about equality, equality and respect for a dignified life, equality which also establishes our own Constitution in its article 14, equality in our legislation. I believe that we should not forget that at certain times in history persons with disabilities have been treated in a very unfair way; some currents have at times regarded them as non-dispensable persons, persons condemned to charitable policies and ostracism. But, today, in our society, I believe that inequality is lived from another point of view. When you talk to entities working in the field of disability, they show that discrimination and inequality in disability lead to high unemployment rates, discrimination in access to goods and services, and high social rejection. The deepest discrimination faced by persons with disabilities is that vision that places them in segregated places, which puts them outside society. Therefore, all initiatives in which we have to work must contemplate diversity and combat discrimination. In Citizens we consider equality to be one of the main pillars of work. We appreciate all that support from the third sector, because thanks to that support, the work of this House, we were able to put an end to the forced sterilization of disabled women. We are grateful for the legislative amendment that we are seeing today because it is a major change in parity more, ladies and gentlemen. It is a legal system, I repeat, that I believe it is one of the most relevant because we move from substitution to respect for the will and preferences of people, because we want them to be the ones to make their decisions, and to do so we need to provide the necessary support measures. This standard follows the European references to guidelines of the Council of Europe itself, which establishes a field of work linked to the establishment of preventive measures. In this case legislation, guardianship, is eliminated, but it is that, in addition to eliminating guardianship and establishing as the main figure the guardianship, it is established the elimination of the extended parental authority, the rehabilitated parental power, figures that were too rigid and not adapted to the system of promoting the autonomy of adults with disabilities. In the process of amendments, we in Citizens have addressed a number of issues. We have considered the issues of succession. Persons who perform guardianship or healing can only be favored in succession when there is an open notary will. We have made improvements in what the denomination is because the terms are relevant and we eliminate the word disability because we believe that this amendment represents an advance. We incorporate for Social Security purposes persons with disabilities who have a recognized disability of 33 % or more, but also those who already have equally recognized support measures. Ultimately, ladies and gentlemen, the rule takes a human rights-based approach to promote equality of persons with disabilities, to respect their autonomy in decision-making by ensuring a support system that allows them to live in a real way with that greatest equality and dignity possible. Anyone of us who has a disability in our environment is aware that depending on the individual situation in which we are living, we previously had a very unfair system. Previously - said a companion - you had everything or nothing, you were someone or nobody, because really what they did was representative in everything. Not now, now we adjust to reality. For those exceptional measures that need full representation we have that total representation because we are rigorous, we are aware, but in those cases, which are the majority, in which with good support measures the person will make his own decisions, it seems to me that we are giving a great response to social diversity. [[The lady]] In Citizens we want to continue to accompany people with disabilities on their way to dignity and equality. I would like again to thank this House for the tone of work in our Committee during the entire session we have held here in Congress and for the tone of work we have done in the Senate. I believe that we are faced with a number of legislative changes that give an example of what our way of working on what our daily work is. It's a good way of doing politics that he invited everyone to get used to. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u68	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Boadella Esteve has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u69	Good morning again. The truth is that today there is a historic milestone with the final debate of this long project, which involves the radical modification of civil law. For us and for all groups it was a priority. The 2008 Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities required adaptation to the legal system, but also within these priorities we had a very important since PeCAT, the safeguarding of our own civil law. As you know, the Catalonian Parliament legislates in civil matters and above all in these matters which were dealt with here, and for us it was a priority that the necessary reform in this whole area of disability will also leave the doors open, leave its own civil law safeguarded. The last priority in this area was consensus, as in many disability issues. Working on these issues with consensus, with good understanding in all groups, I believe that it should be one of the top priorities and that has been sincerely achieved in all the work of this paper. Issues such as prodigality pass into history. A new modern approach is generated in relation to support measures and, most importantly, this modern approach involves putting seeds for the fruits of many new legislation that can come from now on, many new measures that can come from now on. Could you be more ambitious? I'm sure it is, I'm sure you could go further, but this is certainly the lowest common denominator that allows us to make this proposal viable and get out of the BOE as soon as possible. It is the framework that provides support measures for persons with disabilities. Therefore, it opens a door to a completely new stage. It is the framework that has allowed us, of which we are especially proud, to interact and make this journey together with all entities in the field of disability. From here I would like to thank all of them for the support and follow-up they have been doing while the parliamentary work lasted. It is a scenario in which spaces are opened to address new practices. Finally, I have been fortunate enough to work in this area of disability in a guardianship body. Initially I entered working there when - before it was pointed - towards the so-called civil death. After this civil death and this overcoming came the world of the guardianship entities, of the guardianship, to a whole development of entities that saw its splendour. And from those sentences in which it was said that it had to be a custom dress today, as the entities of the sector say, to this metaphor that it will not only be a custom dress but a wardrobe full of possibilities. Today, therefore, we make the process of adopting these measures much more friendly and much easier for families to take judicial action and much more friendly and much easier for persons with disabilities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u70	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the same group, Mr Pagès i Massó has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u71	President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much. With the completion of this legislative process, we fulfil a mandate of the International Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, we materialize the commitment made by the Spanish State at the time of its ratification of the Convention and we finally recognize the inherent rights of first-rate citizens. The International Convention talked about equal legal capacity in all aspects of life for persons with disabilities, and that is what we intend to move to state legislation today. In this regard, we can congratulate ourselves on the broad - almost total - consensus of the Chambers on recognizing the rights of persons with disabilities. This bill has already come out of this House with a broad consensus, but it was a perfectable law and, for this reason, two hundred and ninety amendments were tabled in the Upper House. Being able to work without mediating the emergency procedure in the Upper House, in the Senate, made it easier for many transactions to be made and, no doubt, to improve the text. Junts per Catalunya tabled sixty-one amendments to the text in the Senate proposing improvements to fifty-one articles of the draft, of which eleven have been incorporated in the form of transactions. [[The Lord]] However, we regret that the Senate did not introduce the amendment which proposed to protect Catalonia's own powers and the autonomous communities with competence in this area, on the conservation, modification and development of civil rights. The corporal. We need to be clear with the citizenry. This law testes the adaptability of all areas of interaction of persons with disabilities, from the banking system to the medical system, pharmaceutical system, etc. We must modernize, we must be able to meet the changing needs of our fellow citizens. I would like to end by making a meaningful recognition of the entities and civil society organized by their tesón and resilience to defend the rights of persons with disabilities. Only from respect for difference, from knowledge - which is very important - and recognition we have the capacity to decide and that makes us all a little more free. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u72	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Saavedra Muñoz has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in common.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u73	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, today is a historic day. The International Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, made in New York in 2006, was the international treaty that was a milestone in the conception of disability and marked principles and guidelines for action that became a rule of compulsory compliance in the States that had ratified it. Spain did so in 2007 and has since become an extraordinarily valuable tool for advancing disability policies. Persons with disabilities and entities defending their rights - to which we greatly appreciate their efforts - found support for the demands of a society with equal rights, and their work for the adaptation of the legal regulations to the provisions of the convention has led to a Copernican shift, from segregation to inclusive society, from dependence and guardianship of others to rights and autonomy in decision-making in their lives. These changes have not been achieved without resistance from the old conceptions, and much remains to be done. Universal accessibility is still far away, educational inclusion is not yet a complete reality, and the tendency to replace the will of the disabled in decision-making continues to plan, often camouflaged, in a supposed defence of their interests. In addition, we have come from years of cuts and a disastrous management of the previous crisis by the governments of the People's Party, which punish especially those with functional diversity or dependent status and their families. Years of systematic demolition of the Unit Act, cutting State contributions, eliminating benefits and services, increasing unfair co-payments. There were also setbacks in employment and educational inclusion, by eliminating essential support for persons with disabilities and by cutting down on public care and support services. Our political force and this coalition government are determined to reverse these cuts and to push forward policies on citizenship rights for people with functional diversity. [[Rumors]] This is being a key legislature...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u74	Your Honor, one second, please. [[Pause]] Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u75	This is a key legislature in this regard. In this House we have approved the ban on forced sterilization of persons - women - with disabilities, long demanded by international bodies. Recently, the Council of Ministers approved the first constitutional amendment directly linked to social rights. The reform of article 49 of the Spanish Constitution speaks of persons with disabilities, rights, personal autonomy, social inclusion, freedom of choice and preferences. The adoption of the education law represents a very important advance in educational inclusion. And in the General Budgets of the State, social investment is increasing exponentially, and in particular the allocations for the Unit Shock Plan - already agreed in social dialogue and with the autonomous communities - by reversing cuts in order to advance the autonomy of people with functional diversity and respect for their rights, by promoting resources such as personal assistance, a change in the model of long-term care and the model of residences, by moving towards deinstitutionalization, and by making commitments to progress in universal accessibility, which have been pending for many years in this country. This law implies a paradigm shift in our legal system, which was based on the replacement of persons with disabilities in decision-making, to ensure from now on that decisions will be taken by the individual, according to his or her will and preferences, with the support he or she needs, and mechanisms to avoid abuse, conflicts of interest and undue influence will be arbitrated. Many of the limitations people face originate in an environment with physical, cognitive, communicational, attitudinal or legal barriers. This law provides assistance to overcome these barriers in the exercise of legal capacity, and thus guarantees equality in the exercise of rights. It is a law that has improved throughout the process with a broad consensus among the parliamentary groups, and with the clear will to work towards agreement, very evident in the debate on amendments in this House. This recognition is extended to work in the Senate, which has introduced amendments that enrich this text referred to the House. I will only refer to a very significant example. The Senate has introduced an amendment to the Civil Code, which, with due legal guarantees, prohibits the establishment of visiting or staying arrangements with respect to the parent who is accused or convicted of offences against the life, physical integrity, liberty, moral integrity or sexual freedom of the other spouse or children, where there are substantial indications of violence. The spirit of the organic law on comprehensive protection of children and adolescents, which we will adopt in this House today, has thus been adopted. The law we adopt today must therefore also be accompanied by changes in the environment, in the social mentality and in the training of legal professionals and public administrations in general. This law, because of its implications and its novelty, must undoubtedly be evaluated within a few years, together with the entities of disability, in order to correct those aspects that need to be adjusted. It aims to ensure that all people, regardless of their abilities, respect their rights, decisions and self-management of their lives; that all people can participate and develop in society on an equal footing. This is the challenge that moves us by passing this law; the challenge that United We can continue to work on, which will certainly make our country a more dignified and just country. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u76	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs De Meer Méndez has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u77	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, my support, my encouragement and my affection for all the ceuties for the nightmare they are going through these days, and especially our tribute to our deputy for Ceuta - and deputy for Ceuta from this House - Teresa López. [[Applauds]] Today we come here to discuss the Senate's amendments to the bill reforming civil and procedural legislation to support persons with disabilities and to exercise their legal capacity. It is a complex text that reform many legislative texts of broad tradition in our legal system and is therefore a non-balladian issue. First of all, I would like to dwell on the substance of the matter, because, apart from the fact that it may have technical issues, which we consider to be favourable, we nevertheless believe that the spirit of this bill is absolutely wrong. And it is that, first of all, we note that you have a problem with the concept of the dignity of the person. You have a problem, yes, because for you-and you demonstrate it precisely bills like this - the dignity of the person resides in the will, and this is a tremendous and gigantic error. Because you say that the will of the incompetent must be respected above all and in any case, even if the person to whom he is represented could eventually have been wrong. You reject concepts such as deciding on the basis of the best interest of the incompetent, which for you is outdated and discriminatory, and you eliminate guardianship because you consider it a discriminatory representation of the will of the representative. This is a gigantic error that leads to the sacralization of a person's will, even if he or she suffers from a disability limiting understanding and discernment, that is, it limits precisely the exercise of his or her will. If a person decides to lie down on a bridge or drink a raft of bleach, should he be allowed to do so because his will must be respected, even if he might eventually be wrong? There are people whose disability is precisely not being able to discern, and there are people with limited disability to the extreme for whom it is an achievement to blink. And you know what? That your dignity is exactly the same as yours, it's exactly the same. [[Applauds]] And that, among many other things, is what distinguishes us from you. For you, if you do not decide it is not worthy and, for us, it is worthy as a person, decide or not decide. Dignity is inherent in the human being, ladies and gentlemen, as a bearer of eternal values, and it is a mistake that much of the policies, precisely, are based on this dignity conceived and based on capacity and will. In this regard, the sessions we had in the presentation are very illustrative. I'm going to stop especially at that of María Paz García Rubio, Professor of Civil Law at the University of Santiago de Compostela and part of the General Commission of Codification, which stated literally in his presentation that it cannot be what is best for the person with disabilities, for their personal or heritage interests. You have to make a recreation, a hypothetical will, and you have to reproduce what would have been the will of the person in question, taking into account his or her vital history. Or he also said that the necessary safeguards must be established to ensure that the will, desires and preferences of the individual and in no case his best interests are done at all times. Do you really think this? But who do you think the judges are incapacitating? I refuse to renounce the common good in defence of the possible right to be wrong of persons with disabilities. I refuse. Furthermore, ladies and gentlemen, you speak of the legal capacity and the capacity to act, and this bill is precisely characterized by eliminating this difference between the legal capacity and the capacity to act, and this generates an immense paradox. Because, if the wishes and preferences of persons with disabilities must be the guiding criterion for the acts of their civil life, why not also with minors? Why is guardianship maintained for children who have not been emancipated subject to parental authority or have no care? And, when parents exercise parental authority over minors, should they also take as a guiding criterion the wishes and preferences of minors? Don't you realize this is nonsense? But, in the end, you have to introduce - because reality is reality - a system of protection for persons with disabilities. And we are glad that, in practice, what is going to happen is something similar to what has been happening so far, because in the end people with disabilities - and they are no less so - need support. You guys set up a two-type system. However, in one of them, in that of the judicial systems, in which you establish the guardianship, they claim that it is abolished in the case of parents towards their children of extended or rehabilitated parental authority, because they consider that families are not the best environment for the person with disabilities. This text constantly sees the attack on the institution of the family. Ladies and gentlemen, you seek to enhance the value of autonomy and equality to the detriment of best interests and protection, but it is the protection and best interests, precisely, which favours autonomy and equality. You are slaves of globalism, of third institutions that impose texts that determine our legal order in this House. Ladies and gentlemen, this is why you say that guardianship is a denigrating institution, but it is a measure of secular protection that comes from a tradition of Latin law that has been the light of civilization. But you all touch away from civilization.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u78	Your Honor, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u79	They're just barbarians living in the ruins of a higher civilization. Thank you so much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u80	For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, I have the floor, Mrs. Moro Almaraz. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u81	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Today we bring here a text just at the end of its processing, when it should have been at the beginning. What a paradox, isn't it? When there is a great consensus, there is no initial debate in Congress. However, we are happy in my parliamentary group because there is a text that reflects a lot of will, a lot of work, a lot of debate, a lot of listening to technicians and people with disabilities. There comes a text that was obviously moved in the light of the New York Convention, but within the framework of article 10 of the Constitution. The dignity of the person, Mrs De Meer is something else than what you have indicated. And it says well in saying what you have done, because you have not been, you have not cooperated. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a reform of human rights. Today more than ever I am proud to be a civilist. Civil law is the right of individuals, it is the right that has evolved since Rome, where it was the right of citizens, but it has become the right of individuals, who care for each and every person. And today we take one more step, a step that began with the Constitution, which followed in 1983, which in this decade has taken very important steps. Today I believe that women are the ones who best understand what the paradigm shift of this law is. I remind you that our mothers in May 1975 regained the opportunity to dispose of their assets, to act in legal traffic, because we had limited capacity, such as persons with disabilities. I assure you that it is a pride to defend that people with disabilities today have full legal capacity. They'll have it as soon as we support this law. [[Applauds]] See that that means we have to get used to two terms. The terms are full capacity, because there is full exercise of rights, and we have to get used to support, not limitation, not incapacity, not demanding the person we want. But how are we going to go against families? This law strengthens families, people who love their children most, their loved ones. [[Applauds]] It will be their support, those support that will also be voluntary. You will not have to sue your child to establish protection. They will be able to carry it out with a voluntary declaration, with an agreement. And if you have to go to the judge, you'll go without a lawsuit, in a case of voluntary jurisdiction. Today this law - and the People's Party has introduced this amendment - makes section 7 of the Civil Prosecution Act delete what it says at this time: that only those who have full civil rights, from now on persons with disabilities, can be brought to trial. And that concept of disability, yes, it is the one that incorporated the New York Convention, a flexible concept that evolves with the needs of people, but what we have done has been to establish technically in texts and standards how it develops. And of course, some will say: you have passed the brake on this rule. We've seen it here; don't believe it. Or you'll tell us: you're short; maybe. We have been cautious on the basis of the prudence already incorporated by the General Codification Commission. We have been consistent as far as possible. But, you see, the courts have done an unpayable job since 2008, but you can't wait to solve a problem six or seven years, it was necessary to be in technical regulations such as the Civil Code, the Voluntary Jurisdiction Act, the Notary Act, the Protected Heritage Act. It was imperative, and this is what this law does. Don't be afraid because, in fact, we're going to need a lot of pedagogy to train jurists and change the mindset. Some of us have been working thirty-five years in civil law and have evolved, and that is the greatness of Spanish law and society. Therefore, this is the law that will allow us to look into the eyes of persons with disabilities, to whom we speak with an easy language, which is incorporated into the law, to whom we provide a facilitator, to whom legal professionals will have to speak to them in order to understand what is happening. Look, I'm gonna break a rule. If you want me to be nicer, I'm going to recommend a chapter in a series: New Amsterdam. First Season, Chapter 15. See this episode and you will understand this law. There, a person of seventy-five years, with a long and painful treatment of chemotherapy, tells his doctor: I can't anymore, I have found my illusion, I want to live this time with the illusion of this person who is next to me and who cares for me. Ladies and gentlemen, a curator comes to the hospital and says to the doctor: no, I am the one who decides, the will of the seventy-five-year-old cannot be, it is I, because moreover the authorized has let him throw. See that chapter and you will understand that what is happening today is that it will no longer be imposition by taxation. And those who cannot decide, will be abandoned? No, there will be the courts, there will be the representative curator. There he is. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, I conclude with my thanks - I will probably forget someone, because I have very little time, but I did so in the Commission and I refer to it - to so many people: thanks to Cermi, to the entities of disability; thanks to our colleagues who have done so much and who continue to do so outside this House: Paco Baño, Nacho Tremiño; to my colleagues in the Senate.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u82	Your Honor, you must finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u83	I'll be done right away, please, President. Miguel Lorenzo, Biolante Tomás, my partner Miquel Jerez. To the mouthpiece of disability, who has always been waiting, every minute, Carmen González Guinda; to the direction of the group: Cuca Gamarra...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u84	Your Honor, your time is up. Thank you very much. [[Mrs. Moro Almaraz: Every time we flailed, Andrea Matarí was with us. She is the best forerunner of this law.-Applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, standing by]] Thank you very much. For the Socialist Group, Mr González Caballero has the floor. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u85	Good morning. Thank you very much, Mr President. 'Give me wings to decide about my life,/give me wings to build my future,/let me decide and dream,/in the future is my freedom. / Give me wings to decide who to be with, / give me wings to express how I feel, / give me a chance, / I want to move on, / I want to fight. / Give me wings to get it, / let me share it, / give me wings, / let's fly together. ' Preparing this intervention, I recalled this poem by Isabel Criado, a Cordoba poet with disabilities, who explained this creation in the following way: I want to decide about my life, make my own decisions. I tell my family, my monitors and friends to give me freedom and help to do it. I want to get my dreams and I want to make it accompanied. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, this bill will ensure that millions of people with disabilities, like Isabel, can realize what they are asking us to do: make their own decisions, achieve their dreams by the means they need. A demand fulfilled of the civil society organized that accompanies us today, and to which I greet: Cermi, ONCE, Full Inclusion, Mental Health, Down Spain, Autism Spain, Aspace and Spanish Federation of Brain Damage, among many others. With this law we fulfil the mandate of article 12 of the New York Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, but in addition this House and this Government approves it with conviction, pride, and justice. [[Applauds]] Today Spain makes many hopes come true, today Spain makes many illusions held back in the past for our friends and for our families. But it is not a law that only benefits a minority, with this law we build a more integral Spain, because an integral society is one that does not discriminate against anyone, neither in society nor in the normative texts nor, of course, in rights. It is a law that is framed in the legislature of social advancement for persons with disabilities, as the President of the Government has said, a road that began with a great step forward, with the recognition of the vote in 2018 and with the eradication of its forced sterilization, a road on which today we continue to make firm progress, with the equality of legal capacity, and which will culminate in the amendment of article 49 of the Constitution. This law places Spain among the countries at the forefront in the autonomy of persons with disabilities, with a model change that eliminates the current incapacitating system of will, and makes it a new system respectful of the will, preferences and specific circumstances of people, through the establishment of these supports. It is a reform that amends eight laws, which respect the multi-legislative reality of our society, which will focus on the training of legal operators for their effective implementation, and which will guarantee accessibility, the right to understand and to make understandable persons with disabilities in all processes, from going to a notary, to a trial or to sign a mortgage. It is an initiative that began in 2018 by a different government, whose foundations were drafted for the excellent work of the General Commission of Codification, and this government promoted its processing, bringing to Congress in July last year the text that we approved today. Ladies and gentlemen, this law has sat on the same table for people of very different sensibilities with a desire to understand themselves, allowing this agreement to extend rights. I would like to thank Mrs Saavedra, Mrs Telechea, Mr Boadella, Mr Mikel Legarda, Mrs Sara Giménez, and also the good work of the Chairman of the Committee on Justice and her legal team, and, of course, the commitment shown by this Government, by this Minister of Justice, reflected in the constant attention of Maria Sol and Mr Javier Truchero. I would like to make a special mention of the deputy of the People's Party, Mrs Maria Jesús Moro, for her good work, loyalty and collaboration to carry this law forward, as well as thank my parliamentary group for the confidence given to defend this important law today, together with my colleagues Luis Carlos, Yolanda and Senators Josele, Chema and Patricia. [[applause]] This is certainly not news, but today Congress is turning from sham to cooperation. The group of persons with disabilities has allowed politics to cease, for a moment, to be a field of combat and become a field of collaboration in advancing rights and equality in this country. [[Applauds]] I'm sorry that VOX, I'm sorry that the extreme right again wants to get out of this picture of equality and the progress of rights in Spain. I recommend time, the same time that since the Illustration has allowed humanity to leave that self-imposed minority, of which Immanuel Kant spoke, and which, from its beginning, had its enemies in those who, as now, still think of the civilian majority of all persons with disabilities. Time, ladies and gentlemen, for there were already those who thought that the working class was underage; they were wrong; we got universal suffrage and social rights. Time, for some thought that women were minors and that they could not vote or have a current account; they were wrong. Today, we follow the unstoppable path of equality. [[Applauds]] Today, there is a party that continues to think that all persons with disabilities should continue to be treated as minors; they are wrong. Time and work, Mrs de Meer, we did not see you in any of the lecture sessions, but I also recommend work. You talk about families. Ninety pages have this bill, it only has to go to the explanatory statement, in which the family is valued as an institution that remains in our society the basic group of solidarity and support among the people who make up it. Time and work, I only ask you to read the explanatory statement. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, I'm done. With the approval of this law Spain puts the means, the wings, that would say the poet Isabel, some wings to start the flight, some wings to build a new time in which now people with disabilities can decide in freedom. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u86	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] On behalf of the Government, the Minister for Justice has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u87	Thank you, Mr. President. He took the floor with one goal, thank you. I think it is a day of great satisfaction because we are going to pass a law in which, after hearing you, almost all of you, will participate in these qualifications: it is a just law, it is a social law, it is an equal law and it is a worthy law. It is a law that generates satisfaction. I am speaking from a fully personal point of view on behalf of the Government, it is a law that generates satisfaction with the subject matter it regulates, and it complies with the 2006 New York Convention, which has been binding on Spain since 2008, on the rights of persons with disabilities. It recognizes that equal legal capacity to which many of the spokespersons have referred and articulates mechanisms to make it real. We have overcome twenty-one centuries of good law, of notions such as incapacitation, extended parental power, rehabilitated, guardianship of the elderly, etc. Today, society demands other instruments and other legal institutes, and that's what we do, that's what we do. We have amended, as we have heard, the Civil Code and eight extremely important laws. I am not going to enter into that, I do not want to enter into a precious debate which I have had the opportunity to continue in all its parliamentary proceedings. I said that there is great satisfaction in this matter and I cannot fail to be happy - I want to say this here, although yesterday I had occasion to do so in the Committee on Justice - for another reason, and it is that there is a new way of doing politics, there is another way of doing politics, the formula of agreement, consensus, mutual sacrifice and shoulder-to-shoulder, and that is what I have to congratulate on. I want to thank that civil society, those collectives that have been lighthouse and port: lighthouse because they have illuminated the way we had to go and port because we have reached where they asked us. Thanks to the General Codification Commission for its enormous effort and thanks, of course, to all the political groups that have provided the best of themselves for a text that represents us all and, more importantly, makes us a better society. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u88	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen. We'll vote in three minutes. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u89	Ladies and gentlemen, I remind you that you will only be able to vote from your seat, identified with your name on the screen. I would also remind you that those Members who have been authorized to vote for the telematics procedure cannot do so from their seats. We begin the voting. Senate amendments. Draft Organic Law on Comprehensive Protection of Children and Adolescents from Violence. Separate vote on the amendments. Amendment to the preamble, with regard to the deletion of paragraph 54 of the text submitted by the Congress. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 100 plus 244 telematics votes, 344; in favour, 63 plus 111 telematics votes, 174; against, 37 plus 57 telematics votes, 94; abstentions, 76 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u90	It's approved. Remaining amendments to the preamble. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 100 plus 244 telematics votes, 344; in favour, 100 plus 164 telematics votes, 264; against, 4 telematics votes; abstentions, 76 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u91	The amendment was therefore adopted. Vote on the amendment to Article 4 on the addition of a ñ). We begin the vote. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 100 plus 244 telematics votes, 344; in favour, 62 telematics votes; against, 100 plus 181 telematics votes, 281; abstentions, 1 telematics vote.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u92	The amendment is therefore rejected. Vote on the amendment to Article 4 concerning the addition of a point (o). We begin the vote. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 100 plus 244 telematics votes, 344; in favour, 100 plus 167 telematics votes, 267; against, 18 telematics votes; abstentions, 59 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u93	The amendment was therefore adopted. Vote on amendments to Articles 5 and 21, paragraphs 4 and 8 of the first final provision, paragraph 36 of the sixth final provision and the new final provision. We begin the vote. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 100 plus 244 telematics votes, 344; in favour, 100 plus 164 telematics votes, 264; against, 19 telematics votes; abstentions, 61 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u94	The amendments were therefore adopted. Vote on the amendment to Article 17. We begin the vote. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 99 plus 244 telematics votes, 343; in favour, 63 plus 119 telematics votes, 182; against, 19 telematics votes; abstentions, 36 plus 106 telematics votes, 142.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u95	The amendment was therefore adopted. Vote on amendments to Rule 28. We begin the vote. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 100 plus 244 telematics votes, 344; in favour, 37 plus 74 telematics votes, 111; against, 63 plus 112 telematics votes, 175; abstentions, 58 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u96	The amendment is therefore rejected. Vote on amendments to Rule 43. We begin the vote. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 100 plus 244 telematics votes, 344; in favour, 100 plus 170 telematics votes, 270; against, 6 telematics votes; abstentions, 68 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u97	It's approved. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats while we are voting. Amendments to Articles 46 and 56 to paragraph 11 of the first final provision and to the second final provision, paragraphs 19 and 27 of the sixth final provision, to the tenth final provision. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 100 plus 244 telematics votes, 344; in favour, 100 plus 163 telematics votes, 263; against, 10 telematics votes; abstentions, 71 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u98	They're approved. Amendments to paragraphs 2, 9, 14, 18 and 22 of the sixth final provision. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 100 plus 244 telematics votes, 344; in favour, 64 plus 112 telematics votes, 176; against, 36 plus 54 telematics votes, 90; abstentions, 78 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u99	They're approved. Amendments to paragraphs 11 and 16 of the sixth final provision, paragraphs 8 and 9 of the eighth final provision and to the twelfth final provision. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes cast, plus 100 plus 243 telematics votes, 343; in favour, 63 plus 133 telematics votes, 196; against, 37 plus 53 telematics votes, 90; abstentions, 57 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u100	They're approved. Amendments to paragraphs 11 to 15 of the eighth final provision. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, plus 100 plus 244 telematics votes, 344; in favour, 63 plus 107 telematics votes, 170; against, 22 telematics votes; abstentions, 37 plus 115 telematics votes, 152.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u101	They're approved. Amendments to the ninth and twentieth final provisions. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 100 plus 244 telematics votes, 344; in favour, 63 plus 170 telematics votes, 233; against, 37 plus 71 telematics votes, 108; abstentions, 3 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u102	The amendments were therefore adopted. Amendment to the final provision eleventh. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 100 plus 244 telematics votes, 344; in favour, 63 plus 113 telematics votes, 176; against, 21 telematics votes; abstentions, 37 plus 110 telematics votes, 147.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u103	The amendment was therefore adopted. Rest of the amendments. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 100 plus 243 telematics votes, 343; in favour, 100 plus 182 telematics votes, 282; abstentions, 61 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u104	The amendments were therefore adopted. Draft law on the protection of personal data processed for the prevention, detection, investigation and prosecution of criminal offences and the enforcement of criminal penalties. [[File number 121/00046]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u105	We now proceed to vote on the draft Organic Law on the Protection of Personal Data processed for the purpose of preventing, detecting, investigating and prosecuting criminal offences and the enforcement of criminal sanctions. We vote on the amendments separately. Amendments to article 22. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 100 plus 243 telematics votes, 343; in favour, 37 plus 97 telematics votes, 134; against, 63 plus 144 telematics votes, 207; abstentions, 2 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u106	The amendment is therefore rejected. Amendment to article 36. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 101 plus 244 telematics votes, 345; in favour, 101 plus 190 telematics votes, 291; against, 52 telematics votes; abstentions, 2 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u107	The amendment was therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u108	We move on to the bill reforming civil and procedural legislation to support persons with disabilities in exercising their legal capacity. We shall now proceed to the separate vote on the amendments. Amendments to paragraphs 10, 22 relating to the amendment of Article 264 of the Civil Code, 47, 52, 53, 54 and 63 of Article 2; to Article 3(2) of the deletion of Article 28 of the Mortgage Act, to Articles 5 and 15 of Article 7. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 101 plus 243 telematics votes, 344; in favour, 101 plus 181 telematics votes, 282; against, 10 telematics votes; abstentions, 52 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u109	The amendments were therefore adopted. Rest of the amendments. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: present, 101 plus 243 votes cast telematically, 344; in favour, 101 plus 161 votes cast telematically, 262; against, 10 votes cast telematically; abstentions, 72 votes cast telematically.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u110	The amendments were therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u111	Ladies and gentlemen, this plenary session includes, as you know, the debate and adoption of the amendments of the Senate, of organic legislative initiatives, items 26 and 27 of the agenda, which have to be put to a final vote on the whole, which, in accordance with Rule 131.2 of the Rules of Procedure, must be announced in advance by the Presidency. Therefore, pursuant to this provision, he announced that the votes would not take place before 4 p.m. I would also like to inform you that, from 13:00 to 15:00 today, the non-law proposals and motions, the general votes of the Senate amendments to the draft organic laws, the validation or repeal of the actual decree-law, as well as their processing as a draft law, the opinion of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on international conventions, the amendments to the whole and the proposal for the creation of a subcommission will be able to be voted on by telematic means. All these matters will be put to the vote in the Chamber at the end of the sitting.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u112	We continue with the debate on the validation or repeal of Royal Decree-Law 8/2021 of 4 May, by which urgent measures are taken in the health, social and jurisdictional order to be applied after the expiry of the state of alarm decreed by Royal Decree 926/2020 of 25 October, declaring the state of alarm to contain the spread of infections caused by SARS-CoV-2. To present the royal decree-law, I have the floor, on behalf of the Government, the fourth vice-president and minister for ecological transition and demographic challenge. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, the Vice-President of the Government has to start her speech. I ask you to hold your seats silently and to listen respectfully to the Vice-President of the Government. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u113	President, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like, once again, to convey the solidarity and affection of the Government to all those who have lost during the pandemic to some loved ones, to those who are sick, to those who are recovering from this terrible disease and to those who are suffering the effects of a health crisis that has an impact on the economic order, on the labour order and on the emotional order. I also want to transfer affection and gratitude to all those people who continue to fight, because, let us not forget, there are still many people who continue to fight and take care of us in the front line. These are words that, although we repeat from this rostrum, and from different forums, are important, they are the highest priority of the institutions' action in combating the pandemic, the implementation of all the instruments to minimize the consequences of this. This is the Government's objective, to address the special needs that this pandemic continues to cause, with a particular focus on social needs and the protection of the most vulnerable groups, also boosting the economy and meeting the Government's commitments. Therefore, looking at how to reconcile these complex months where we are recovering normality, where we are increasing the number of people vaccinated, the fact that we see on the horizon, at last, the possibility of a group immunity that helps us to face what is left ahead. It is a very different context than in recent months and we are already without a state of alarm, a situation that will allow me to qualify as hopeful thanks to the vaccination process that is taking place in our country, speeding up vaccination rates according to the planned schedule and organization and the effort shared by the administrations, which allows us to glimpse this situation so desired by all and for all. Ladies and gentlemen, the objective of Royal Decree-Law 8/2021 of 4 May, for which the Government today requested validation, is to provide legal coverage for urgent measures in the health, social and jurisdictional order to be applied after the expiry of the state of alarm declared by Royal Decree-Law 926/2020 of 25 October, by which the state of alarm was declared at the time to contain the spread of infections caused by SARS-CoV-2. This royal decree-law includes measures of extension or guarantee of regulations whose effectiveness was conditional upon the validity of the state of alarm and which, therefore, also expired on 9 May, the date on which this royal decree-law came into force. Other measures are also added which, although not expressly conditional on the existence of the State of alarm, have been taken in relation to the consequences of the pandemic in order to mitigate its negative effects and whose temporary validity is also nearing completion. As has happened in countries of our environment, such as Portugal or Italy, the Government decided not to use its constitutional prerogative to request further extension of the state of alarm from the Congress of Deputies on the basis of three reasons: firstly, the evolution of the epidemiological situation which, while maintaining elements of concern, presents different, more positive, perspectives thanks to the pace of vaccination of the population and its progressive immunization, ensuring channels of delivery and distribution of acquired vaccines, increased awareness and social responsibility of a large part of society and the effectiveness of the measures adopted by the autonomous health authorities; secondly, the finding that, as a general rule, the measures adopted under the state of alarm in recent months by the competent delegated authorities can continue to be articulated in case of necessity within the framework defined by the Organic Law 3/1986 of 14 April, of special measures in the field of public health, and by Law 33/2011 of 4 October, General Public Health, being subject to the permanent normalization of the normalization of the state of which is provided for in the form of non-conformity or the third rule of law. In short, the non-application for extension responds to the assessment of the proportionality between the current level of gravity of the situation and the use of the state of alarm as a regime for possible suspension of fundamental rights and freedoms. The Royal Decree-Law 8/2021 of 4 May, for which it requested its support for the purposes of validation, in accordance with article 86.2 of the Spanish Constitution, is structured into six chapters, fifteen articles, an derogatory provision and two final provisions and includes the following measures in the health field, in the civil sphere in relation to the communities of owners, in the social sphere and in relation to housing and gender-based violence. Allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to focus on setting out some of these measures, especially in those extraordinary ones applicable to situations of economic and social vulnerability. In general terms, as I have already pointed out, they are extended for a period of three months from the expiry of the state of alarm, i.e. until 9 August 2021, some of the measures taken to cover these situations of vulnerability in relation to the guarantee of certain supplies and the right to the perception of the social bond by vulnerable consumers and groups, as well as certain measures of protection in the area of housing rental contained in Royal Decree-Law 11/2020 of 31 March, which provides for the adoption of additional urgent social and economic measures to deal with the COVID-19. The Government's firm will is to strengthen the protection of persons in a situation of particular social and economic vulnerability, largely as a result of this crisis. Thus, until 9 August 2021 the supply of electricity, natural gas and water to consumers with vulnerable, severely vulnerable or at risk of social exclusion cannot be suspended. Existing measures to protect vulnerable consumers are strengthened, in line with the effective framework developed to identify and structurally reduce the phenomenon of energy poverty. Royal Decree-Law 8/2021 of 4 May also introduces health control measures for international passengers at airports and ports in order to prevent the introduction of contagion vectors and new variants of SARS-CoV-2 while at the same time promoting an openness to tourism. Health control measures will be based on the risk situation decided by the Ministry of Health, as well as documentation obligations through an electronic form and a QR code to be provided by the traveller at his/her entrance, with the collaboration of travel agencies, companies and tour operators. Extraordinary measures were also taken for horizontally owned community owner boards. The Royal Decree-Law suspends the obligation to convene and hold the board of owners in the communities subject to the horizontal ownership regime until 31 December 2021, extending in such cases the budgets and exempting itself from obligations. In these communities, meetings of owners are not being held, given the limitations of face-to-face meetings caused by COVID. The existing doubts about the possibility of adopting agreements in a telematic way, since the Horizontal Property Act omits this possibility, make it difficult for us to interpret and require clarification. This royal decree-law therefore allows for meetings of the boards with quorum and reduced majority and telematic means to take measures that are indefatigable. The suspension of housing procedures and launches in vulnerable situations in accordance with established procedures is extended until 9 August 2021 and, given that the month of August is inaccessible to justice, de facto means that protection extends until September. It also provides for the possibility to apply to contracts whose maturity was established between 9 May and 9 August 2021 an extraordinary extension of the term of the lease for a maximum period of six months, during which the terms and conditions laid down for the contract in force will continue to apply, provided that no separate agreement has been reached between the parties. In addition, it extends until 9 August 2021 the possibility of applying for a moratorium or partial cancellation of rent where the lessor is a large holding company or public housing entity, and also extends the period during which tenants and homeowners affected by the extraordinary suspension provided for in Royal Decree-Law 11/2020 of 31 March, which provides for additional urgent social and economic measures to deal with COVID-19, may submit the request for compensation provided for in the second additional provision of Royal Decree-Law 37/2020 for urgent measures to deal with situations of social and economic vulnerability in the field of housing and transport. With regard to gender-based violence, this Royal Decree-Law provides that public information, counselling, tele-assistance, comprehensive social assistance, shelter for victims of all forms of violence against women, including victims of trafficking for sexual exploitation and sexual exploitation, and the tele-telematic monitoring system for gender-based violence, as well as the autonomous communities and local authorities, will be able to allocate appropriate funds under the State Pact against Gender-based Violence to implement all preventive and assistance projects or programmes, even though they have fallen under alarm. As far as measures of a judicial nature are concerned, they focus on the reform of the current regulation of the appeal procedure. The aim is to make it possible for the Dispute-Administrative Chamber of the Supreme Court to become aware of the decisions adopted by the chambers of the higher courts of justice and of the National Court in this matter and also to establish legal doctrine, with the intervention of the public, autonomous and state administrations, in addition to that of the Ministry of Public Prosecutions, on the scope of health legislation in relation to the limitations or restrictions of fundamental rights imposed by the health authorities, and to do so within a very short period of time, as required by the health situation, serious and extraordinary, which obliges these authorities to take such measures. Ladies and gentlemen, the temporary extension of these measures responds to reasons of urgency and necessity in a context in which, after the end of the state of alarm, social and economic recovery will occur progressively, to the extent that a percentage of vaccination is achieved that will restore confidence, and for a period in which economic activity in certain sectors may still be subject to certain restrictions arising from the evolution and effects of the pandemic. The Constitutional Court has repeatedly endorsed the adoption of measures with social impact in exceptional and urgent situations that are explicit and reasoned and also the formality linked to the urgency that prevents the regular processing of normative texts. This royal decree-law complies with that repeated doctrine of the Constitutional Court. Its material motivation stems from the need to address the serious consequences of the worsening vulnerability of many tenants of their habitual housing as a result of the current scenario of paralysis, job losses or significant reductions in hours or wages. The extraordinary and urgent need is part of the political and opportune judgment of the Government, and the measures taken are considered necessary, proportionate and essential in order to meet the general interests affected and to continue to protect those who need it most. But the most important thing is that this royal decree-law re-means the responsibility and continued protection of the Government to protect, on the basis of the resources available to it, all social protection measures for three months. By extending these measures we can ensure that there is no one affected by light cuts, water and supplies, the possibility that women are more protected or cannot be disposed of in a post-crisis context. The Government intends to continue to protect three more months, until 9 August, because we are fully aware that the pandemic has not ended, even though the recovery has begun, even though the state of alarm has risen. That is why he asked his ladies and gentlemen to give their support to the validation of this royal decree-law, because we cannot leave those who are still in need of additional protection by the State and the institutions in key areas for comfort in life in our homes. Thank you very much for your attention and, as I say, you asked for your support, for the validation of this decree-law on behalf of the Government. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u114	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Oramas González-Moro has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u115	Thank you, Madam President. [[The lady]] Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, this government has decided to declare a state of alarm and to paralyse the economy of this country, confined the citizens in their homes for ninety-nine days, and it is the same government that is now draining the envelope, at the height of the fight against the coronavirus. It is not understood that for reasons of a political nature, not health, because you do not want to wear yourself out with unpopular measures, leave the autonomous communities defenceless, without the necessary legal tools to limit the freedom of movement and assembly of citizens. That is bad politics, that is the worst policy, because you have already checked what the Supreme Court has said, that the freedoms and rights of citizens cannot be limited or eliminated by autonomy. But you already knew that, and you didn't care at all. At the worst moment, you have taken the responsibility off your hands and passed it on to the judges and the territories. This government can be criticized for the mistakes it made at the beginning of the pandemic, because they were very serious: for the delay in the reaction to the danger, for the disaster in the purchases of sanitary material, for the miscarriage with masks, which were not necessary first and then were essential, or for saying that the English strain would not be important, but what no one can deny them is that the Spanish government took the lead in a situation that had never been experienced in this country, which assumed its responsibility. However, with the same sincerity, I must say to you, Madam Vice-President, that your Government has not taken the size today. Your Government, the Government of Spain, has thrown the towel at the most difficult time in the fight against the coronavirus, you have thrown the weapons and you have deserted the front line. And God wants that decision not to have a terrible cost to our country, because the wrong message that is being transmitted to millions of citizens is that we can now lower the guard, that the alarm in the state is over with the end of the state of alarm, that has returned to normal. And that, Madam Vice-President, is totally irresponsible, but above all it is totally false. It is essential that in the Autonomous Community of the Canary Islands the perimeter closure of the islands is accepted when one island, unlike others, is at level 3 or 4. It has been brought down by the High Court; the Canarian Autonomous Community has appealed to the Supreme Court and the prosecutor has already reported negatively and made it public. It is essential for us, so that the Canary Islands can move forward healthily and economically. The perimeter closure is fundamental and what I would like to know is what you will do when in the next few days the Supreme Court says no. In any case, the aid that will be extended in this decree, the social, electricity and rental aid, seem important to us, and, because today we are not deciding to end the alarm, but simply to extend the social aid to the people, my political force will support it. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u116	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the same group, Mr Sayas López has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u117	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. If there is any decree that highlights the government's incompetence, it is precisely this one that we are debating this morning; a government that has been throwing away the entire pandemic and transferring all responsibility to the autonomous communities, generating regulatory chaos in Spain with seventeen different ways of dealing with the pandemic, and now, when the state of alarm is over, it says that the Supreme Court, which resolves the Supreme Court, is the chaos that the government has generated. It is that we have been in an unbroken state of alarm for six months, a time when Parliament has been robbed of its decision-making capacity, and the Government has been unable to bring in a valid and effective instrument to protect the Autonomous Communities. It is that the powers of the State have been completely reversed; we have had a government that has renounced the executive power, a legislature that has been robbed of the possibility of control and a judiciary that is being asked to act as executive power, and that is absolutely a clear symptom of the incompetence of this government. But we can talk about the government's incompetence in whatever matter we are dealing with. Yesterday we were talking about labour reform, at a time when millions of Spaniards are unemployed or at ERTE and we still have a lot of self-employed people who have not been able to resume their business. We are at a time when many Spaniards have lost all hope and no longer even point to the unemployment list because they don't think they have a chance to find a job, and the Minister of Labour comes out and announces a job reform, while the Economic Vice President looks up and sighs like saying why we've gotten back into it, and then the President of the Government of Spain comes and corrects it. Look, it's not that this is a coral government, it's that directly what we have is a henhouse. And we have a Spanish government that is worried about what Spain will be like in 2050, instead of being in today's; a president who is more comfortable dreaming than working, who is more comfortable in the clouds than in reality. Thus we find that, at the time when our economy has fallen most since the Cuban crisis, at a time when we are in a diplomatic crisis that has no precedent in decades in our history, we have the president dreaming of what Spain will be like in 2050. And in the meantime, listen, the problems that the autonomous communities solve them, the legal security that the Supreme has to deal with, the issues that have to do with the crisis in Ceuta the European Union or even its majesty the king, and the economy directly leaves it to inertia, because you know, ladies and gentlemen, life is dreamy. Let the president sleep, which will be awakened by the Spaniards when the elections arrive. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u118	Thank you very much. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mrs Gorospe Elezcano has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]] [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u119	Thank you, President. Good morning, everyone. Good morning, minister. Good morning, Vice President. By your intervention, we have the feeling that what the Government intends to do is to go from point to point at the end of the state of alarm, because this royal decree-law that you intend to validate here today is much more than a royal decree-law, it is the finite of the state of alarm, and it gives us the feeling that what you intend to do is to pass the screen, the screen of the state of alarm, of a pandemic past, and to arrive soon at a new screen, that of an immune future. But the truth is that this state of alarm has been triggered by a health crisis and that, between the screen they want to pass quickly and we all want to pass on that pandemic past and the immune future, there is another screen in the middle, and, in terms of public health, that screen is very risky. That is why we did not understand and today we again insist on what was the Government's haste to raise the state of alarm, when different political formations and different institutional areas demanded that after so long, after more than a year of so much health effort - you have referred to it, to the effort that many professionals on the front line are making - so much social effort, so much economic effort, because of the urgency, because they want to get to that hopeful screen, they have taken the risk that there will be rebounds. They have taken a risk that the Government alone is reckless. And not only do institutions and other political formations say this, because after the sluggish night of 9 May who has acted throughout the pandemic as a spokesman for the health crisis of the Government you represent, minister, Mr Simon, said in his statements: Neither I nor anyone knows what can happen within fifteen days, neither I nor anyone can know how much revenue will be in those killed in the coming days, and the question is that some of the data are already starting to come out, and the reality is that, for example, in the Basque Autonomous Community, where many tests are being carried out, more than in the state average - because, of course, we find it crucial to move forward in vaccination, progress in prevention, but, of course, also in early detection, and for that we have to do many tests, many RCPs and diagnose and detect as many cases as possible - it is already seen that there are more infected people in these days than in the evolution that had been done with previous measures. Therefore, because of that concern, we began to face facts that we should not have faced. They set in motion an accountant, the accountant that started in 100 and continued with 99, 98..., that we all want to get to a good place with the results they predicted, but on May 9 they set in motion another accountant: 15, 14, 13, 12, 11..., until we see what would be the consequence of that decision. They've done the politics of self, me, me, me. You have unilaterally decided to raise the alarm. You have unilaterally decided what measures are included in this decree-law that you intend to validate today. They haven't called us at all. Look at me. I am a representative of the Basque Nationalist Party in this House, of the Basque Group. Our group voted in favour of the investiture of President Sánchez, our group has supported multiple proposals from the Government to maintain the Government, to give institutional stability to the decisions they are taking. They haven't called us at all. The measure you were taking to appeal to the Supreme Court and, in theory, to give legal certainty to the competent health authorities is absolutely questionable, because all you have done is to subject all decisions related to public health to judicial control, to subject very delicate decisions to the control of the judiciary, thus establishing a framework of distrust in society over all the decisions that the health authorities were taking. And what they had to do, what they should do and not do this decree-law is to incorporate into the legal system some legislative proposal that establishes a framework of confidence so that the health authorities of the autonomous communities, in fact, in their area of competence, with legal certainty, can take measures, without having to be subject to the trial of any judicial control. They have not consulted us, as I was telling them, either to raise the alarm state or for any of these measures. Therefore, do not come to our group to ask for support for this to come forward. If we ask them for responsibility and if we ask them to reorient their action in this area, because we are still on the screen in the middle, and there are probably many more. Of course, we offer you our willingness to cooperate, but you also have to put on your side an important effort to talk, propose, negotiate and agree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u120	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Bal Francés has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u121	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, everyone. Madam Vice President, congratulations, but I only give them to you because yesterday was your birthday, I don't give them to you for this royal decree-law, nor much less. This royal decree-law must have started in the Council of Ministers, probably, from a situation in which someone said, "Oh, what a surprise! May 9 ends the state of alarm. [[The lady]] We have been six months with the Royal Decree-Law of the state of alarm and, as always, fast and running and very badly done, as I will say now, present us with this Royal Decree-Law, as the representative of the Basque Nationalist Group has said, without consulting anyone. Here are these lentils, if you want to eat them and, if not, leave them. Well, look, we've been asking since the fourth extension of the state of alarm - and I did it personally with the first vice president of the government - for a legal plan B. We, and I, in particular, from this very rostrum almost a year ago, told the former Minister of Labour, now Vice-President of the Government, that economic protection measures and social protection measures had to be extended, because they were not going to end the situations of necessity because the pandemic was to be referred or extinguished. However, you don't do your homework. This royal decree - also said Mr Sayas - is certainly an example of absolute failure, of lack of leadership, of lack of credibility, of lack of responsibility. And yes, indeed, it is what you call co-governance, that no one knows what it is. I tell him what it is: for you the browns and for me the flowers. That's what you understand by co-governance. [[Applauds]] We set in motion the accountant of the days remaining from the pandemic on the part of the President of the Government and we tell the autonomous communities: there you are. But, above all, now we not only tell the Autonomous Communities, no, we tell the Third Chamber of the Supreme Court, which says: but what have you believed? Do your work, you are the Executive Power. All this, by the way, adorned with horrific statements by the first Vice-President of the Government, who says that the Supreme Court must help the Government - go with the separation of powers!-, and another that says that the Executive empowers the Supreme Court; the Supreme Court that created the Constitution of Cadiz of 1812 is empowered in 2021 by the Government of the Socialist Party. It's a joke! Besides, and you're a lawyer, you should have consulted someone who knew anything about a cassation appeal. Because you see, the cassation resource - we say so, technically pedantic - is a nomophylactic tool. That's a good word, but I'll tell you what it is. The Supreme Court is only aware of the interpretation of the rule, it is not aware of the facts. However, in this contentious-administrative procedure the court has to do what it has to do is a trial of proportionality between the accumulated incidence, the possibility of contagion, and the restrictive measures of freedom, and that cannot be done by the Supreme Court because it only has the competence to interpret the meaning of the norm by creating jurisprudence. That is why, in our legal plan B, which we registered in November 2020, we told the Government that the solution is that this proportionality trial as to the facts is done by the National Court, since the Supreme Court cannot do so. In this way, we will establish a uniform case law for the whole of Spain which will give rise to the treatment of citizens equally and fairly in the different parts of the national territory. We find ourselves with the maximum nonsense right now: Valencia, autonomous community with the lowest cumulative incidence, below 30 cases every 14 days and Balearics, 46 cases, both with curfew, Valencia at 23:30 a.m.; Canary Islands, about 80 points of cumulative incidence and Navarre, 190, both without curfew because the higher courts of justice have decided not to validate the measures that the health authority has requested. As it turns out that the Valencians and the whalers - the individuals - have no legitimacy to go to the Supreme Court, we find that these gentlemen will say: I do not contag myself, but neither can I go out at night. The shipwrecks, on the contrary, will say: I can go out at night, but I have a high risk of contagion. And this you have done with your foresight. For that, the truth is, I stayed with Carmen Calvo when he said there was no need to amend any law. The truth is that in order to modify them in this way, it is better not to effectively modify any law. She also said, by the way, the first Vice-President of the Government, that something should know about constitutional law, that outside the state of alarm everything could be done except to establish the curfew. Can the right of assembly in one's own home also be limited by the autonomous community? But, what nonsense; but, what madness. Really, if you don't know, ask before you make a rule like this, and you certainly don't subject us to blackmail, which is what you are doing with the royal decree-law. Then the Constitutional Court would bury it - that of Mr. Iglesias in the CNI - but of course mixing the competence of the Supreme Court to hear the cassation appeal and the social measures for the protection of vulnerable groups is a blackmail, and that is where we are going to pass; we are not going to pass. [[Applauds]] Parliamentary initiative of my group registered here in the Congress of Deputies My group urges you to approve all the social measures that you include in this royal decree-law by means of another royal decree-law, but not by this royal decree-law. [[shows a document]] So, please, work, because that's what we pay you for. You have many ministries, but you don't like to work too much. Protect the citizens, stop propaganda at once, talk about Spain of the year 2050. We must work precisely to protect those vulnerable groups, to effectively extend all those measures that you have counted when you came up here, but they will have to do so through another royal decree-law if today this royal decree-law is not validated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u122	Thank you, Mr. Bal. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Boadella Esteve has the floor for the Plural Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u123	Thank you very much, President. Good morning. Madam Vice-President, we are here, in the validation of Royal Decree-Law 8/2021, with a whole list of measures that are undoubtedly necessary, such as those relating to health and passengers; there are questions relating to the scope of owner boards, renewals of posts and meetings, and some measures on gender-based violence that we also consider very necessary. However, there are economic measures on a particularly heavy issue that are surprising, such as the compatibility of the retirement pension and the salaries of those doctors and nurses who have been hired on the occasion of the COVID. More than one file started in March 2021 by Social Security claiming compensation for the retirement pension for doctors who worked during the pandemic, and we therefore welcome the correction of this issue in this way. In view of this set of measures, we must also highlight the extension of those measures relating to situations of social and economic vulnerability with the non-suspension of supplies, with the moratoriums on rent rents, or the 50% reduction, or the extension of leases that you also pointed out. We can share that all these measures are necessary and certainly many of them can be improved in the wording that is done in the royal decree-law, and that is why we will also ask you to proceed as a bill. The only thing we want to highlight, before we get into one of the key issues, is that these situations and measures begin to affect more people than those who are the object of protecting this economic and social vulnerability. Owners of a property that has a person who is considered vulnerable are expected to have a report by social services on the situation of vulnerability, which can claim compensation until 9 September 2021 with a reasoned and justified statement. Well, these owners, this middle class, which is enduring these situations to which the State, the public administrations do not respond, are the ones who we sincerely believe are now suffering this situation. Therefore, some mechanisms will have to be adopted to help these people, obviously we agree that no one can be left without any kind of domicile, but what cannot be done is that they bear the full responsibility for the solution, which they are not able to give social services or the public administrations themselves. Beyond this question, I told them that there is a key issue in this royal decree-law: measures in the area of contentious-administrative jurisdiction. The judicial authorization to maintain these measures is in the hands of the higher court of justice of each autonomous community, which can then be unified in doctrine by the Supreme Court. We cannot be very happy with this solution - this is what I am transferring it to - which is once again moving issues that would have to be of a political nature to the judicial system. We have a feeling that this process of bringing political issues to justice is due to political breaches. Mr. Pedro Sánchez in this same Congress, on May 20, 2020, said that he said that they would analyze the necessary and very concrete reforms of four laws: the General Health Act, the National Health System Act, the Public Health Act and the National Security Act. Vice-President Carmen Calvo, on 13 May, also said that important legislative changes needed to be addressed by the end of the state of alarm. Well, these commitments at the seat of the Congress of Deputies are not fulfilled, and when they are not fulfilled, a solution that we sincerely believe is not the most obvious from the point of view of legal certainty, from the point of view of the role that the Supreme Court should have. I sincerely believe that they are making a totum revolution, putting all these necessary measures and in the midst of these necessary measures are picking up those more complicated questions. We are not going to put a stop to these necessary measures. As I said before, we understand that they must be adopted, that they must have the legal protection they deserve, but, although we give light to this royal decree-law, we insist on the need for its processing as a bill to give voice to this Congress of Deputies and above all also to combat something that has no longer gone very well in the Constitutional Court. To all this from the judicial route, to all this from political non-compliance, would add a deep reflection also on whether these royal decrees-laws fulfill the extraordinary and urgent need. The truth is, I've been in a state of alarm since March 2020. That the solution at the end of the state of alarm fulfils these criteria of extraordinary and urgent necessity and that it must be done in this royal decree-law with the commitments since May 2020 of the same president of the government, when the pure and effective reality is that we all knew when the state of alarm ended, we believe that of extraordinary and urgent necessity it has little, more need than of urgency. In any case, we call for these regulations, these measures can be done with much more consensus. We will therefore vote in favour of this royal decree-law and give you a vote in favour of the bill, but we ask you to take these reflections into account for the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u124	Thank you very much, Mr Boadella. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Medel Pérez has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podem-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u125	Good afternoon. The statement of the state of alarm felt very bad to the right in many ways, and well in others. We had to hear insulting speeches and false arguments, even when they voted in favour. They made continuous innuendos aimed at creating insecurity in the citizenry, regardless of the consequences in a situation as serious as a pandemic. The machacona insistence on the excess mortality against coronavirus mortality, although they know perfectly well that it is a matter of accounting because of how death certificates are accounted for, had and continues to have as its purpose, as we can see continuously in the Health Committee, to generate distrust in order to achieve political profitability. Their oscillating vote - in particular that of the PP - as politically suited to them, went from yes to no abstention. His fascist court speeches in the sense that those who do not think like me are anti-Spanish, anti-patriots - we have only heard him say here - or phrases like what the government does goes against Spain, were speeches that also made implicit calls to skip the rules of the decree. They accused the government of absolutism for maintaining the state of alarm, something surprising for the love they have for Francoism, but those are the contradictions, knowing, moreover, that the lifting of the state of alarm would lead us to a new wave. The contagions did not have or have the least importance for the right. But the one that put more emphasis on disobeying the measures of the state of alarm promising freedom instead of healing, hiding the dead under the armchair, was Mrs. Ayuso. Listening to her seemed like it was healthier to get away from drinking than staying at home. According to his thought, it seems that he was more free to risk becoming infected and contagious to the most unprotected than to do something to prevent the contagion. It has been an achievement that this Social Communist Government has been able to vaccinate 98.2% of those over 80 years of age with two doses and 90% of those over 60 with one dose. This has made it possible to raise the state of alarm with guarantees, but we must maintain all possible preventive measures as long as the epidemiologists advise it. Repealing the validity of the state of alarm is not a call to discontrol, to neglect of measures to prevent contagion, but to epidemiological irresponsibility. I believe that this new stage will be subject to the teaching of facts; we will see how the pandemic evolves and we will see the rate of vaccination. It is clear that the rate of vaccination could have been higher if the European governments had decided to release the patents months ago. By the way, what defachation on the part of the People's Party to demand speed in vaccination and to be against patenting. [[Applauds]] Let's not forget the rest of the world, please. We can put all the excuses that come to mind, but we will not save ourselves while there are countries left without vaccination. Either we're all saved or no one's saved, and it's not a slogan, it's the pure reality. When the state of alarm expires, the measures subject to its protection expire, but most of these measures may be articulated if necessary within the framework, for example, of Organic Law 3/1986 of 14 April, or by Law 33/2011 of 4 October, General of Public Health. This is a very serious issue involving autonomous communities, courts and laws. It is something that must be subject to observation, to careful analysis, and to make of it partisan interests is nothing more than an irresponsibility. But if the PP didn't like the state of alarm, he doesn't like the end of the state of alarm either, or so it seems. First, they accused the government of absolutist centralism. As the state of the weapon ceases to be in force and it is the autonomous communities that make the decisions, they accuse them of decentralizing inappropriately, etc. You never do anything right, they think. That's probably why we'll be antipatriots. At the same time, they claim freedom from the disease. They blame President Sanchez for the weekend crowds. They, who have been continually inviting the agglomeration. Now they've come up with a plan B. The letter B is the preferred letter of the alphabet for the PP, a salvific plan B but which, as the PP itself recognizes, does not allow the curfew to be implanted. Finally, an empty plan of content. We shall vote in favour. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u126	Thank you, Mrs. Medel. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. García. Mr Calvo Liste has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u127	Thank you, President. Your Honor, the statement and successive extensions of the state of alarm did not feel bad for us, who felt bad, and very bad, was for all the Spaniards. [[Applauds]] Madam Vice-President Ribera, an advance. Many royal decrees with measures, yes, urgent, but yesterday from its ideological sectarianism opened the door to end the Tajo-Segura transfer, condemning half of Spain's agriculture to ruin and encouraging confrontation between compatriots. Take your hands out of the transfer and finally develop a national hydrological plan that interconnects all the basins, generates employment, work and gigantic sinks of CO2. [[Applauds]] Returning to the question, again in a hurry, irresponsibilitys and patches. The worst possible government at the worst possible moment again abuses the figure of the royal decree-law, on this occasion with urgent measures after the end of the state of alarm, in a conglomerate of six chapters: health control of international passengers, measures relating to boards of communities of owners, situations of economic and social vulnerability, measures on gender violence, socio-economic measures and the express reform of the Law on Dispute-Administrative Jurisdiction. I will focus on this last chapter because I consider it the most damaging in terms of the substance and form used. We must not forget that Sánchez is directly responsible for the worst management of the world's pandemic and that the first changes brought the health and economic problem to the autonomous communities in what came to call co-governance, that is, to avoid further political wear and tear. As we know, the Dispute-Administrative Jurisdiction Act had been amended to allow the higher courts of justice and the National Court to authorize or ratify the measures taken by the administrations after the end of the state of alarm. The disparate judicial orders automatically arrived, which were not subject to appeal in cassation, as confirmed by a recent Supreme Court ruling. Hurry again, irresponsibility and patches. For this reason, the Government, as it does not govern and drain the bundle, has had to draw another royal decree, that is, from the hoax, in order to allow what was previously not to be resorted to, that is now. The Government has had more than a year to improve existing legislation, which would have avoided the chaos we are experiencing by the management delegation in seventeen taifas kingdoms. In VOX we already know what time Sánchez and his associates dedicates to: the law of euthanasia, the law of childhood, the wing of climate change, the approach of terrorists, the rise of taxes, to monitoring social networks, the ministry of truth, with real decrees-laws everywhere, putting stickers in the boxes of vaccines and throwing messages like 'We will not leave anyone behind', when we are the last. [[Applauds]] Now, with this royal decree-law it has wanted the Supreme Court to unify doctrine through the express reform of the Law of the Dispute-Administrative Jurisdiction, introducing a new remedy of traumatic cassation that pretends to be processed in record time. The left creates the problem, solves nothing with the passage of time and, when the need arrives, transfers it to the courts. In VOX we believe that the unification of criteria is vital in the face of the chaos created by an incapable government and an autonomous state that generates more and more inequalities among the Spanish. This is an uncertain unification, due to its poor procedural technique: rachitic and accelerated delays, between three and five days, obviating the previous appeal and the preparatory phase, or allowing access to the State's Law at the stage of the appeal when it has not been a party to the proceedings, since it is difficult to abstract from the questions of fact, since the Supreme Court's assessment in this appeal prohibits the very essence of the review of facts, which undoubtedly leads to non-admissions. It is a real decree-law possibly unconstitutional, if in the end the amendment made by Law 30/2020 is declared thus, because the courts of the contentious-administrative are participating in the process of elaboration of an administrative act. The Constitution entrusts judges with the exercise of the jurisdictional function, i.e. by judging and enforcing the court. Judges cannot replace the Government in the exercise of the executive function and regulatory authority conferred on it exclusively by the Constitution, since the principle of division of powers would be broken and the right to effective judicial guardianship of article 24.1 of the Constitution would be compromised. [[Applauds]] In addition, the Supreme Court sees a problem of rank in the rule used to regulate the issue. Up to eleven paragraphs devote the Government in the royal decree to justify the use of this legislative tool; it should not be so clear when it gives so many explanations. Hurry again, irresponsibility and patches. This Government and its partners, therefore, preach dialogue and consensus, but then do not set an example, since the royal decree was improvised against clocks, unilaterally, without having agreed anything with the autonomous communities - that is, in co-governance - or consulted with the judges of the Supreme Court, as detailed in the emergency report of the Technical Cabinet of the Third Chamber of this Court. A demolishing report detailing all the problems of implementation of the formula chosen by the Government and adding to the substantive complaints that the higher courts themselves have made about the horror of leaving to judges decisions that are strictly political and scientific in nature, making them executive partners in the process of administrative action. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm done. We moved from a state of alarm to a state of judicial government. Hurry again, irresponsibility and patches. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u128	Thank you very much, Mr. Calvo. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Rojas García has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u129	Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Due to the diversity of subjects covered by this royal decree-law, its analysis should be carried out from the following perspectives: legal, health, social, labor, housing and consumption. It is on the legal side, ladies and gentlemen, where we have more discrepancies and it is the one that we want to analyse more closely, Madam Vice-President. Because, ultimately, the legal mass of this royal decree-law deepens the treatment of measures in the pandemic, but in some ways it shows the lack of understanding and action capacity of the Executive that Mr Sánchez presides, as has already been made clear here in the mouth of other spokespersons. The decisions of the Executive set out here are leading our country to a genuine legal chaos which is set out in the example of how it should not be governed and which, at the same time, portrays the model of President Sánchez, a clumsy and inefficient model which consists of drawing from the duties and obligations of the Government itself to the courts of justice, and that, ladies and gentlemen, is unacceptable. It is precisely the derivation of these responsibilities towards others that is a constant policy of the Executive in recent times. All we have to do is review the horrific year that has passed through our country, ladies and gentlemen, with a Government gripped by the rift and confrontation, which has been unable to transmit a peak of serenity and management, which was so necessary, especially in the harsh times of the pandemic. When the Spaniards were concerned about fighting the virus and its spread, the Government was concerned about monitoring social networks or ceasing those who were against the Government. This says almost everything, ladies and gentlemen, but it is very graphic and very serious what has happened. When Mr. Sánchez was in charge of the state of alarm, at first, he lied with the warnings, with the cases, with the deceased, with the statistics, with the media, with the masks... When we needed, ladies and gentlemen, a serious government, we had a lying government, which stretched out its lie every day. And yesterday, ladies and gentlemen, we were able to see how Minister Escrivá was blatantly lying in this Congress about the autonomous in Spain. And after many misgivings during the first pandemic management, what did the Executive do? To divert their responsibilities to the autonomous communities. I would like to hear from Mr Sánchez, the Presidents of the Autonomous Communities, all of them, corrector. In short, a Government on the run when a Government was most needed. They could well have accepted our legal plan to make a law of pandemics that will avoid a decree of this nature, but above all that will avoid the legal discontrol and insecurity that exists in our country and that the Government has created, that legal insecurity that today is fine, ladies and gentlemen, but that could have been avoided with our legal plan, a plan that Vice President Calvo herself admitted and then denied, a plan that has defended the vast majority of legal operators and even the Council of State. An offer to build the country together in an uncertain future, in a complicated future; an offer that our President Pablo Casado made from loyalty to Spain but which the government has rejected. Ladies and gentlemen, we realize and see more and more clearly that this is a government unable to listen, because it no longer sees the Spaniards, has lost their focus. The first thing the government is worried about is how to keep their armchairs, how to close their cracks, how to content their partners and how to reprove the opposition. Someone has had to forbid them to listen to the opposition, ladies and gentlemen, but you know that in Congress laws are passed, the royal decrees are validated and the opposition is heard, and from the debate, Madam Vice President, proposals are noted and the rules are improved. Whoever doesn't do this is that it's not valid to rule, it doesn't know how to rule. Those who think that the laws serve to put into ink the Official Gazette of the State reproaches against the opposition - as recently and shamefully was done by the Socialist Party in the amendment of article 315 of the Criminal Code - are not in the way of the good legislators, because they have chosen the path of the bad politicians. Those who want to legislate on the basis of decree-laws that mix everything and that, like this one, come to modify other laws that are undergoing reform in this Congress, either have an absolute disregard for what we represent, or do not know what the separation of powers means, as has already been said here this morning. [[Applauds]] It is not possible, ladies and gentlemen, to abuse the figure of the decree-law; there are fifty-three royal decree-laws, with clear warnings from the Constitutional Court itself, which has already thrown back two decree-laws, and will come more. It was truly pathetic to hear the first vice president here yesterday say that they had to go quickly to fight the pandemic. Why did you have to go fast? To plug Mr. Pablo Iglesias into the CNI? Is that what the decrees are for, ladies and gentlemen? To pass the ball to the judges and that the courts decide and co-manage in what it has to manage the responsibility of the Government? No, no, that's not how fast it is. That, simply, is doing things wrong. This government must be in place to govern, ladies and gentlemen, and this government is not up to our country, this government is not up to Spain. An amendment to the cassation appeal cannot be made by an urgent and extreme necessity procedure, by its very nature it stipulates that judicial proceedings must be conducted and that the rights and freedoms of citizens must be affected, as the Supreme Court is saying. Ladies and gentlemen, this decree places the Supreme Court in an institutional position which does not correspond to it, as an active participant in the process of taking administrative measures which, within our framework of division of powers and division of powers between administrations, does not belong to it at all. As Professor Muñoz Machado has rightly pointed out, it is inappropriate to turn the contentious-administrative jurisdiction into a governing institution of the crisis, requiring its authorization and approval of anti-pandemic measures decided by the public administrations. Ladies and gentlemen, guarantees must not focus on prior judicial authorizations, but on ex post control and the use of precautionary procedures, which are for that purpose. Turning judges from the contentious-administrative into judges of guarantees in an area of preventive justice that is unexplored is an unheard-of government delegation that is right now changing a legal model in a hasty and completely uncertain way that in no way should or can be done by decree-law. Marriage is not the right instrument to protect public health. It is a government that assumes its responsibilities and governs, but this government does not want to be to assume its responsibilities. This government comes here to legislate, to pass the ball to others. This government comes here to tell the Spaniards that it is not responsible for anything, that it is not responsible for anything. So, what's the government for, ladies and gentlemen? That is the reality that we are living in our country. We have the worst government at the worst, and that is what the People's Party says with the legitimacy of making proposals, proposing a plan B and warning the government of its mistakes over and over again. Thank you very much, Your Honor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u130	Thank you very much, Mr. Rojas. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. Guille. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Simancas Simancas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u131	Madam President, Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, this decree contains two sets of measures. First, it extends social protection to the Spaniards most affected by the pandemic and also provides legal guarantees to the authorities who must protect their populations against the virus. Nothing more, more social protection and more legal guarantee; nothing more and nothing less. Therefore, only from ignorance of its content or from the will to do harm can one oppose this decree. As we have to assume that your right-wing lordships have read the twenty-four folios of this royal decree, we have to agree that once again the Spanish right bets that everything will go wrong so that it will go well for them. [[Applauds]] Once again the Spanish right bets to approach power, albeit minimally, on the misfortune of the Spaniards. Once again the Spanish right abdicates its responsibilities towards this country. Ladies and gentlemen, this decree prohibits evictions from people who are having a bad time. This decree prohibits the cutting off of the supply of electricity, gas or water to vulnerable families, and a moratorium on the payment of rents to those who are unable to pay them. In addition, this decree enables retired nurses to continue to introduce vaccines and strengthen services for the protection of women victims of gender-based violence. Can you tell me which of these measures you do not agree with? Which one? [[Applauds]] And if you agree, why do you want to overthrow the decree? For screwing up the government, Mr. Bal? By bothering the government, are we going to make it possible that tomorrow, if this decree is not validated, anyone with difficulty during the pandemic can be expelled from their home or light or gas cut off or that nurses cannot put vaccines on? For screwing up the government? Are you going to be this irresponsible? [[Applauds]] Mr Rojas, this is also an extension of passenger control at international airports. They've been beating the crap out of us for over a year and now they want to vote against the extension of health control so that passengers coming from South Africa, Brazil or India have health control. Are you really going to be so irresponsible, after a year of giving us the screw-up with the bubble, with the lie, with the falsehood of Barajas? [[Applauds]] The other major issue is that of legal safeguards with regard to rights restrictions in the pandemic. Some things have been said that are not accurate and some lies have been said. It is not true that we have moved from the state of alarm to legal chaos, from nothing at all, or that the Government has disbanded itself. The state of alarm could not be extended further, because limiting and restricting fundamental rights in democracy is very serious. We cannot turn what should be exceptional into democracy into normal. We cannot make permanent what must be limited in time. We couldn't prolong the state of alarm. There is, of course, a whole arsenal of resources and legal coverage to take action. There is an organic law of 1986 which literally empowers the authorities to take all necessary measures to control communicable diseases; all necessary measures. There is coverage of an organizational law of 1986, the General Health Act of 1986, the General Public Health Act of 2011 and the Cohesion Act of the National Health System of 2003, which makes the decisions of the Interterritorial Health Council executive. And there's an early detection strategy, there's a coordinated response strategy, and there's a vaccination strategy. There is legal coverage, there is political coverage, there is operational coverage to limit mobility, to restrict the number of people who can gather on the street, to control the botellones, to also control the activity in bars and restaurants. There's legal coverage for all this. We're told, we're controlled by the judges. Well, of course! We are talking about fundamental rights and public freedoms in a rule of law. What do you want? That they don't control the judges? Do you know, Mr Rojas, what law does it allow the higher courts of justice to control these measures from the autonomous governments? The The Dispute-Administrative Jurisdiction Act 1998. Who ruled in 1998, Mr. Rojas? The People's Party, but they forgot to consider that some courts can say one thing in one territory and other courts, in another territory, say another. That's what's solved in this royal decree-law with a quick cassation appeal, but you want to vote against. [[Applauds]] The People's Party only wants its plan B. [[Applauds]] They have a desire, it's true, for the letter b. But this plan B is as fraudulent as the rest of its operations in B. We were told in times of state of alarm: The government of the Socialist Party establishes medieval confinements proper to authoritarian governments. And now they want those medieval confinements to be decreed by the autonomous governments, by the be, by the be for the good, without state of alarm, without parliamentary control and without judicial control. This is not a plan B, it is an unjust, unacceptable, unconstitutional and inconsistent plan I. [[Applauds]] Because, Mr Rojas, while you are casting a vote against this royal decree, the People's Government of Andalusia is applying it with a cassation appeal to the Supreme by complying with this royal decree-law. The only case here is that of the People's Party, Mr. Rojas. I'll tell you what chaos is. Chaos is calling on the people of Madrid to do what they want when there are the highest number of infections in the country, many very serious patients in the ICU and the highest number of deaths. [[Applauds]] There is reason for the Government of Andalusia to say that the whole state of alarm, for the Government of Madrid to say that no state of alarm and for the Government of Galicia, of the People's Party, to say that four and a half states of alarm. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group, you have voted against most of the decrees protecting the population, the general state budgets and the arrival of European funds. Correct your attitude, be loyal to your country. For once, do the right thing. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u132	Thank you very much, Mr. Simancas. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u133	We now turn to the agenda item on the opinion of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the declaration of acceptance by Spain of the accession of the Republic of Nicaragua to the Convention on the Collection of Evidence Abroad in Civil or Commercial Matters, done at The Hague on 18 March 1970. Several parliamentary groups have asked to speak. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Gutiérrez Vivas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u134	Thank you, President. The meaning of the agreement in these international treaties signed by the Kingdom of Spain with other countries always tends to be to improve the conditions under which the Spanish State may receive information on matters of interest which are closed with those countries, but, of course, this must be done whenever the other State is a State in which the principles of equal rights and freedoms are, at least, homologable with those of the Spanish State; if not, the lack of legal guarantees of the citizens - and, in this case, where we are talking about a commercial and civil issue, probably of legal persons residing in those countries - it seems to us that it does not in any case make the Spanish State homologable with a State where a dictatorship is the one that is commanding and deciding how the laws are enforced. I believe that there are no principles within a dictatorship, and Spain should not, as a State, sign agreements with countries in which the regime that is governing is a dictatorship, so that it is impossible to secure those rights and freedoms. We will therefore oppose and not vote in favour of this agreement and this treaty. Thank you, President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u135	Thank you, Mr. Gutierrez. Mr Gómez-Reino Varela has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in common.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u136	Thank you, President. I will speak very briefly. Our parliamentary group understands that it is an agreement as many as there are of this kind, which penalizes the judicial authority of a State to request, as is necessary in many cases, information or to carry out a request for judicial proceedings. Our parliamentary group sees no reason to oppose Nicaragua's accession to this convention and, moreover, having complied with all the procedural requirements, we refer to the criterion of the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u137	Thank you very much, Mr. Gómez-Reino. For the Socialist Group, Mr Gómez Hernández has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u138	Thank you very much, Madam President. Indeed, we are going to ratify this convention which facilitates the work of the judicial authority. That does not mean that we do not denounce the violation of human rights and that we work intensively to solve the democratic deficit in certain countries, but our obligation, also here, is to facilitate the work of the judicial authority and, for that reason, if the judicial authority understands that the conditions for progress in conflict resolution are given, we have an obligation to support it. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u139	Thank you very much, Mr. Gómez.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u140	We continue with the item on the agenda for the debate on the proposal for an organic law amending the Organic Law 2/1979 of 3 October of the Constitutional Court. Two amendments to the entire alternative text have been tabled to this proposal. In defence of the amendment tabled by the VOX Group, Mr Ortega Smith-Molina has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u141	Thank you very much, Madam President. The amendment to the whole with alternative text tabled by our group in relation to the proposed reform of the Organic Law of the Constitutional Court presented to us by the PSV, the 'Vasco Separatist Party', finds in us an answer and, moreover, obliges us to remember what is important, what we must not forget, what is the foundation, what is substantial, what is really important, what is contained in our Constitution. Our Magna Charter in its article 1.2 makes it clear that national sovereignty resides in the Spanish people, in the whole Spanish people, not in one part, so that sovereignty is not divisible. And it is article 2 of the Constitution that also makes it clear that our Constitution is based on the indissoluble unity of the Spanish nation, the common and indivisible homeland of all Spaniards. It is the Constitution that is subject to national sovereignty, which is why it is based on that Spanish nation; not the other way around, as some believe, that the nation finds its foundation and raison d'être in the Constitution itself. [[The Vice-President, Pastor Julián, took the Chair.]] The preamble to the Constitution itself made it clear that, with the adoption of the Constitution by this House, it was the Spanish people who ratified it. That preamble made it clear that it was the Spanish nation that precisely wanted to guarantee constitutional order and democratic coexistence within the Constitution. Precisely in this preamble is the will of the Spanish nation to maintain a rule of law as an end to achieving freedom, security and justice. Well, if that is the constitutional framework that we must not forget, we must make it clear that, as with the entire constitutional system, there are permanent threats against that Constitution and that constitutional system. Threats that may come from abuse of power, from the Legislature itself, violating fundamental freedoms and rights as, in fact, has occurred in successive and fraudulent states of alarm. Such attacks on the Constitution and such threats may come from interference or over-restriction, for example through a law or a statute of autonomy. And these threats can also come from the Legislature itself, whether from an autonomous court, or from Congress or the Senate. Such attacks on the Constitution, such attacks on the Constitution, need defence mechanisms. That is what our Constitution and the Organic Law of the Constitutional Court have established, with that Court as the maximum guarantee of respect and defence of the Constitution. It is a mixed system of protection and defence: a priori protection mechanisms and ex post protection mechanisms, an effect of preventive protection mechanisms and an effect of reactive protection mechanisms. It is precisely today that we are faced with a proposal that seeks to suppress this preventive control, which is the previous remedies of unconstitutionality, although, of course, there is the subsequent mechanism, the remedies of unconstitutionality that this House may raise, the questions of unconstitutionality that a judicial body may raise, or the remedies of amparo that any citizen who is affected or violated his or her principal rights may propose. In short, in these preventive mechanisms we find ourselves with a constitutional filter and its benefits are unquestionable, so we are already advancing them that our group proposes to maintain that previous remedy of unconstitutionality, and even expand it, as it was in other times, for organic laws. The benefits are unquestionable, they are unquestionable, it is not a matter of political opinion. If we have a previous filter of unconstitutionality, we avoid the litigation that implies that our constitutional system enters rules that will subsequently be subject to all kinds of remedies of unconstitutionality, amparo remedies and questions of unconstitutionality. It also provides legal certainty. A constitutional order that is known to be previously controlled and filtered by the Constitutional Court is an order that generates greater legal certainty for all Spaniards and all legal operators. This is, therefore, what we are talking about. The previous remedy of unconstitutionality - let me do the parallelism - would become like the preventive vaccine against the contamination of the organic legal body of the State. It avoids pollution, avoiding the entry into the constitutional order of rules that will then be declared unconstitutional. And it avoids, above all, and this is most important, the pernicious effects of the entry into the system, for example, of a statute of autonomy which deals with that system itself. Because the effects, although someone might say that they will be subsequently corrected in a remedy of unconstitutionality, in a remedy of amparo or in a question of unconstitutionality, are often irreparable. If we talk about property issues, it may be possible to repair the damage caused by a law or a statute of autonomy contrary to the Constitution, but if we think of a direct attack on the Constitution, such as the coup d'état of 1 October or as self-government statutes that have sought to undermine and blow up the Constitution, the rule of law and, ultimately, democracy, then it may be too late. That is why we need this previous remedy, this vaccine against abuse, against attacks on the constitutional order. It is a filter that also helps the Legislature correct its own mistakes, because it allows it, after the analysis of the Constitutional Court, to correct all those issues of that law or of that status, which are contrary, and allows it to make and carry out an effect of rectification or, if we want, accommodation to the constitutional text, to the constitutional principles. There is therefore no doubt that there are indisputable benefits with regard to this previous remedy of unconstitutionality. It helps, without prejudice to the other filters or to the other protection mechanisms that I have mentioned, to ensure that only those fundamental rules, organic laws or autonomous statutes that really comply with the basic principles of the constitutional order enter the constitutional order on a prior basis. So why does the 'Vasco Separatist Party', which does not stick without thread, try to introduce into the constitutional order this repeal of article 79 of the Organic Law of the Constitutional Court? They do so - and they do not believe that they deceive us - to pave the way for that reform of the 1979 Statute of Gernika that they are already preparing, because they do not want a prior constitutional check to be made. They intend to pursue, as they have already tried in Catalonia, an illegitimate path of constitutional reform through the statutes of autonomy. They want, in short, that the nonsense about their dream Euskal Herria, their violation of the fundamental principles and rights of the Spaniards, of all and, in particular, of those who live in our beloved Basque provinces, cannot be controlled beforehand. That's what's behind this reform. [[Applauds]] That is why VOX, ladies and gentlemen, in this amendment to the whole with alternative text proposes not only to maintain the previous remedy of unconstitutionality before the processing of any draft statute of autonomy or any reform thereof, but to regain that previous control for those organic laws which are also the basis of the constitutional order. We try to protect the Constitution in this way. Paradoxes of life: those who permanently attack us from being contrary to the Constitution, we are the ones who are constantly committed to protecting the Constitution, from the law, from the courts and from public opinion. [[Applauds]] Precisely VOX's, those we are accused of wanting to attack constitutional principles. For today it is a good opportunity for the other parties, those that are filled with the mouth of constitutionalists, to close the door to those who already pretend to end the possible controls of their abuses, of their nonsense, of their unconstitutionalities. In the end, it is not necessary to be afraid of the law, the law is necessary to protect precisely those principles to which I referred at the beginning of my intervention. Because the Constitution is one more rule, yes, it is the fundamental norm of the State, but there have been many constitutions and probably there will be other constitutions, but, I repeat, the foundation of that rule lies in the protection of the Spanish nation, in its integrity, in its sovereignty and, therefore, in the freedom and sovereignty of all Spaniards. Therefore, in view of the proposal of the Basque separatist party and of those who follow the same course of action to destroy from within the institutions the constitutional order as a previous step to destroy the nation, we propose an alternative text not only to maintain that mechanism, but to strengthen it. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u142	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Many thanks to the services of the House. In defence of the amendment tabled by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr De Olano Vela has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u143	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I rise to the rostrum to defend the amendment to the whole of the People's Parliamentary Group to the proposal of an organic law to reform the Organic Law of the Constitutional Court, an amendment with alternative text that consists in maintaining the text of the current organic law following the reforms adopted in 2015, that is, maintaining the previous unconstitutional remedy for the statutes of autonomy and its reforms, as well as the implementing instruments to ensure the effectiveness of the resolutions of the Constitutional Court. With regard to the previous unconstitutional remedy which you now seek to eliminate, ladies and gentlemen, no one should doubt that the previous remedy is a perfectly constitutional instrument. This has been stated by the Constitutional Court itself in its well-known judgment 66/1985 and has also been endorsed by the Council of State in its famous report of 2006, in which it already considered the advisability of reintroducing the previous remedy in the case of draft statutes of autonomy or of reforming them, since - and I quote literally - such ex post facto control may not be appropriate for normative sources which, like the statutes of autonomy subordinate to the Constitution, occupy the highest rank in the hierarchy of law. No one in this House should doubt that the statutes of autonomy and the Constitution are the basic institutional norms of each autonomous community and the basis of the social order and the civic and peaceful coexistence in each of them and that, together with the organic legislation, they form the constitutional body of our legal system. But we should also agree that the statutes of autonomy should be subject to the Constitution as a guarantee of stability in our legal-constitutional architecture, as established by the kelsenian principle of primacy of norms and not the other way around, as it seems to imply the proposed organic law that we are now amending, not even in the event that a consultation of a part of the electoral body has been made for the approval of that statute. Ladies and gentlemen, all of you know - some of you are saying this without redundancy - that the intended reform of the Statute of Catalonia has been used against the State, trying to double the primacy of our Constitution in the normative pyramid of our legal system. With the legislation in force until 2015, the said statute had to be corrected in fourteen articles by the Constitutional Court no less than four years after its adoption, which caused a clash of legitimacy between the electoral body of that autonomous community and its autonomous Parliament with the Constitutional Court. Because of this problem and the threats to our rule of law, in 2015 we again introduced, with the support of 82% of this House, the previous appeal, as it is an effective instrument to detect any act of the legislator that is unconstitutional, so that the Courts can modify and remedy it before it comes into force. In doing so, within a maximum of six months and in any case before its entry into force, irresolvable problems caused by a rule declared unconstitutional subsequently are avoided and the gap in a normative fabric is avoided, since it does not enter or form part of the legal system. In short, with the previous remedy, our legal system is given greater security. It is a question of being able to purify the legal order of the production of effects of manifestly unconstitutional laws. Ladies and gentlemen, lastly, what you are now claiming is that a statute of autonomy can reform the Constitution, but in that case we would no longer be faced with a reform or a new statute, but with a reform of the Constitution, and that, Mr Legarda - proposer of the Basque Nationalist Party - has its procedures assessed in the magna charter and the result would also have to be endorsed by the Spanish as a whole and not just by a part of the electoral body. To a greater extent, it is curious that they do not deny the possibility that there is a remedy of unconstitutionality, but that it does have a character prior to its approval, which shows that its objective is nothing other than to seek the clash of supposed legitimacys in order to keep alive a conflict with which to continue deceiving its voters. With regard to the powers of the Constitutional Court to enforce its decisions, which is the other point of the proposal for a law and of which VOX has surprisingly not even mentioned, of course the proponents have not been very original in this second point either. His arguments coincide with amazingly accurate statements made by the Basque and Catalan governments in their unconstitutionality resources submitted to the reform in 2015, resources that were resolved in 2016 and therefore should not be the subject of discussions - let me say - somewhat Byzantine. Ladies and gentlemen, the Constitutional Court is the final interpreter of the Constitution. What the Constitutional Court says through its rulings on the meaning of the Constitution is the last word. I hope that no one will question this statement, because if they did, they would be questioning our constitutional system. They will also agree with me that no one better than the Constitutional Court itself to clarify their doubts on this matter. It has done so, as I said to you, in judgments 185 and 215, both of 2016, in which it is established in a meridian way clearly that the control of the constitutionality of the laws has a legal and not a political character, ladies and gentlemen, adding that the fact that the Constitution does not provide for a mechanism for the execution of its judgments does not imply the disempowerment of the Constitutional Court of the power to execute and ensure compliance with its resolutions. Ladies and gentlemen, the only constitutionally acceptable interpretation is that our Magna Charter constitutes the Constitutional Court as a true judicial body and, consequently, it also has the power to enforce its resolutions. If that were not so - and I quote literally - the court, unique in its order, would lack one of the essential notes of the exercise of the jurisdictional function and, thereby, the power necessary to guarantee the supremacy of the Constitution. This is what the judgments I cited before the Constitutional Court say. Not even - and this is a common argument among all those who support the abolition of these powers of execution - the election by universal suffrage can oppose compliance with the decisions of the Constitutional Court, otherwise it would be as much as denying the Constitutional Court its own jurisdiction. In addition, the existence of similar instruments to facilitate the enforcement of Constitutional Court decisions is not extravagant in comparative law. Quite the contrary, many of the countries in our environment, including Germany and Austria, contemplate solutions similar to those in 2015 and which you now intend to repeal. Thus things, ladies and gentlemen, your doubts about the legality of the reforms adopted in 2015 have already been resolved and again to discuss what has been resolved certainly does not contribute anything to the debate because it lacks the slightest legal rigour, except that what is intended - and we think of my parliamentary group - is to maintain a fictitious victimization with which to feed its political delusions. Legal considerations do not matter to you, the only thing you seek with this proposal of law is to question the Constitutional Court and ultimately, I repeat, to facilitate the destruction of our constitutional system born in 1978. In short, as Francesc de Carreras explained in 2015 in writing about this reform, the fundamental thing is that the implementation of the decisions of the Constitutional Court is now better assured, which reassures what can come. What is not understood is why it had not been anticipated before. And that 'what I can ask for' that the lawyer said came in 2016 and 2017, ladies and gentlemen, and the reform was implemented, and the reform worked. But the danger has not disappeared in 2021, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, because its members of the legislature not only re-edit in Catalonia the coalition of parties that in 2017 promoted an institutional coup d'état that stopped the condemnation for sedition of their heads but that they have affirmed, in word and in writing, that they will do it again and that the legislature that has recently begun in Catalonia has three objectives: referendum of self-determination, amnesty and sovereignty; all of them illegal objectives, all of them impossible in constitutional Spain. You know that the reforms carried out in 2015 make it difficult for you to achieve your goals; you are aware that a Constitutional Court with its current powers would not allow it, and that is why you present this bill. Thus, no one can be surprised that the purpose of Esquerra Republicana de Catalunya, of Juntas, of PNV, of Podemos or of Bildu's florets is to repeal the 2015 reform. The novelty now, ladies and gentlemen, and what is really dangerous, is that all those parties that question our democratic system are either in the Spanish government or are the parliamentary partners of the Socialist Party. And all of this has one single responsibility: Pedro Sánchez Pérez-Castejón. Sánchez has wanted his stay in Moncloa to be supported by parties that have given an institutional coup d'état in Catalonia, in the party that honours terrorists who killed their comrades in the Basque Country and in parties that systematically question our constitutional system. Sanchez wanted it that way and that's why he said that only Sanchez is responsible. I had other options, ladies, but I didn't even want to try them. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Sánchez promises to be strong against those who attack Spanish territorial unity in Ceuta and Melilla, but Mr Sánchez himself is working with those who tried - and they say they will try again - to destroy Spain's territorial unity in Catalonia, something which is incomprehensible, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party. What will be next? Pardons granted to those who have shown no repentance? A hidden amnesty through a reform of the Penal Code, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party? The interests of Spain, ladies and gentlemen, are far above Mr Sánchez's interests. Do not let yourself be dragged away by your extremist partners, do not let the rule of law have defence mechanisms against those who seek to attack the freedoms of all; you would make a historic mistake. I'll finish it, Madam President. Yesterday Mr Sánchez appealed to the loyalty of the opposition bench to the government in the face of aggression on our borders, but he did not appeal to the loyalty of his parliamentary partners, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, which is frankly revealing. Ladies and gentlemen, the Spaniards - also Mr Sánchez - know that they can count on the loyalty of the People's Party and its president, Pablo Casado, when it comes to defending Spain from any attack, internal or external. Today, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, it is I who ask you to be loyal, not to the People's Party; I ask you to be loyal to our Constitution, to our system of freedoms, to the rule of law, to which none of them have to be left unprotected. In short, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, I ask you to be loyal to Spain and the Spanish. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u144	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much. Mr García Adanero has the floor at the time of the joint parliamentary group's fixing of positions.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u145	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, do not wait for the spokesman of the PP, Mr De Olano, who is very concerned about this amendment of the Constitutional Court, neither this nor any of the points that have been discussed today on the agenda because the President of the Government also counter-programmes Congress itself. Here, where we are the representation of the 37 million people who were called to vote in the 2019 elections and, logically, we are the representation of the whole of Spain, which we see that the president of the government himself counterprogrammes to mount an advertising show by 2050, shows the little respect that is given to this House. We must not forget, as I say, that the popular will lies here - and there is certainly nothing more to see than the group of ministers and ministers who usually accompany us - but today I believe that it has broken all the boundaries of what is respect for the fundamental institution in a democratic country, which is its Congress. It's the most sacred thing in a democracy. [[Applauds]] Therefore, it must be said. When the Basque Nationalist Party, which has as its final political objective independence, presents in this case a reform of the Constitutional Court, it logically presents it because this weakens one of the fundamental organs protecting Spain as a country. That is the case, he is a seer, and it must be recognized both by the Basque Nationalist Party and in this case by the Catalan parties. In the Basque Autonomous Community at the moment, both the Basque Nationalist Party and Euskal Herria Bildu have a parliamentary majority, a majority of two parties with the ultimate political objective of independence. The same is true in the Catalan Community, where both Esquerra and Junts per Cat and the CUP are three parties whose political objective is independence and which also have a parliamentary majority. Spain as a whole, therefore, vis-à-vis these majorities, clearly has to defend itself as national sovereignty, as provided for in Article 1 of the Constitution. Here's the thing. You know, and must be acknowledged, that you can have enough votes to make a change in the statute that obviously does not have the majority of Spain as a whole. In addition, there is a very weak government in Spain from a political point of view, which is currently being governed by the support of these parties, which have as their political objective the independence of Spain and is therefore at their mercy. This weakness was made manifest yesterday by the Minister of Territorial Policy himself, when he said that we had to maintain a dialogue with Catalonia without limits, but one thing is that it is done without time, but without limits... Man, the limits will be those that are established in our legal order, that is, in the Spanish Constitution. Of course the dialogue has limits! The Dialogue has the limit of the Spanish Constitution and the will of the whole of Spain, not the one decided by the Socialist Party and Republican Left of Catalonia. The same applies to the right to decide, since the other day at the meeting the minister himself held with the Basque Nationalist Party in the Basque Autonomous Community also told them that the right to decide was a question that could be raised. The right to decide what? What can be decided? That the Basque Autonomous Community is not a community of Spain? Can that be decided? Who can say that? The national sovereignty lies, is in the whole of Spain, of all the Spaniards, and however much the Minister of Territorial Policy, however much the President of the Government of Spain tells you that you will have the right to decide or tell the others that you will have a dialogue without conditions, does not depend on them, depends on the whole of the Spaniards. In the end, therefore, what is being done is to create problems that should not be created because that generates the distortions that are being created in those two communities. It is clear that those who will decide the future of Spain, who can decide it, are the whole of the Spaniards, neither President Sánchez nor Mr Iceta, either. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u146	Thank you, Mr. García Adanero. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much. Mr Iñarritu García has the floor for the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u147	Thank you very much, Madam President. I'll do it from the seat as it'll be brief. Ladies and gentlemen of VOX, ladies and gentlemen of the Group of the European People's Party, as you imagine we will be voting against your proposal, bearing in mind that a few weeks ago we supported the proposal for a derogation tabled by the Basque Group, by the Basque Nationalist Party. Gentlemen of the PP, gentlemen of VOX, if we oppose your proposal it is precisely because we do not want the Constitutional Court, which is somehow controlled by you or by people of your affinity, to govern, that is, to have become a parallel body of government. Ladies and gentlemen, the proposals that were put forward in 2015 and that were adopted as an organic law entailed an innovation, entailed the creation of a new figure within the Constitutional Court to interpret ex ante and in addition to give it coercive powers, introducing into it that this institution became an instrument, obviously, of centralization of the State. All that was an opportunity to open up, in this concept of plurinationality or federal spirit that some said, but not, on the contrary, to close it even further, assuming further violation of the principle of parliamentary and political autonomy and inviolability of the Autonomous Communities. That is, by closing the open dialogue that must take place between institutions and by closing the longings that societies and parliaments may have to acquire new statutes, you decided that no, that ex ante should be cut and say what parliaments could not say or speak representing their citizens. No, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, at the moment there is a proposal to repeal that cut, and I believe that not only we, the independenceists, who obviously aspire to another model of state and also to our societies becoming independent states on the international stage, but any democrat should have been alarmed by trying, through these reforms, to cut the parliamentary rights of parliamentarians from different parliaments and parliaments themselves, something maquiavellic. The representative of UPN, Mr García Adanero, said that the decision on what societies should be will be in the hands of the Spaniards. No, Mr García Adanero, as you have seen, there are more and more States within the international framework, and that debate is increasingly over, and when there are societies that democratically and peacefully want to become independent States, the solution to the problem comes by opening up channels of dialogue and dialogue in good faith. The problem precisely lies, is created and enquired when these channels of dialogue are closed, something that makes no sense in an advanced democracy. That is why, Madam President, as I said at the beginning, we will vote against it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u148	Thank you very much, Mr. Iñarritu. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u149	Thank you very much, President. We discussed two amendments to the entire alternative text of the VOX and Popular parliamentary groups to the proposed reform of the Organic Law of the Constitutional Court, which was introduced by the parliamentary group of the Vasco Nationalist Party and which was taken into consideration on 21 March last. The proposals for legislation, the alternative text, the amendments of the whole, do not differ substantially - as was presumed - from the arguments already advanced in that session to oppose the consideration. Firstly, and with regard to the previous remedy of unconstitutionality, the People's Party told us - and today it has also repeated this to us - that the Constitution must be equipped with instruments. In the discussion of consideration there was talk of an armor to stop any legislative act that is unconstitutional, so that the Courts can amend it before it comes into force, to defend - it was added - those who claim that a statute of autonomy can amend the Constitution. The previous appeal was also referred to as a bar of jurisdictional restraint before secessionist attempts, thus letting it be seen - I must say - that those who can claim to amend the Constitution through a statute of autonomy would be the autonomous parliaments and that their defence comes, first, from the Constitutional Court, through a previous appeal and, finally, from the Courts, by amending the text of the statute in the sense indicated by the Constitutional Court in a preventive manner. However, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you of something that is flagrant, something that is palmarious, and that the previous remedy of unconstitutionality is not against what has been approved by an autonomous Parliament, but against what has been approved by these General Courts after their processing and any changes, and that what is submitted to a referendum, if any - because not in all the autonomous communities there is an a posteriori referendum, the referendum on the citizenship of the respective autonomous community - is the text approved by this House and not that of the initiative adopted by Parliament. In short, such a clash of legitimacy, in legal terms, would occur, where appropriate, between what has been decided by this House and the Constitutional Court, which has never been in question. For its part, VOX - I have to say this - has been much more explicit with the reasons that guide it to propose the maintenance of the previous appeal against the approved text of a statute of autonomy in this House before its publication and, moreover, for its extension to all organic laws, saying that it does - and in this it is very explicit - to give the instruments to the parliamentary minority - that is, to VOX, among others - so that the majority of the House cannot approve autonomous statutes or other organic laws that violate the Constitution, as they point out that it has already happened in the past, as they assume that it will happen in the future and as they now say that it happens with much of the ordinary legislation and with organic laws approved by a majority - it continues to say - that it is said of progress and that, on many occasions, it surpasses the regime embodied in the Constitution without respecting its reform procedures, and that it will be affirmed - yes, in the debate of it takes into consideration - that the abolition of the prior remedy of unconstitutionalation would be no longer an act of unity, but of unity. Moreover, this possible violation of national unity would never have its origin in the text of a statute adopted in an autonomous Parliament for its adoption or reform, but in this House, in the Courts, either because the Courts approved it without change or because the changes introduced produced it. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, in order not to repeat the arguments put forward during the consideration, I would like to point out that, in our view, in legislative policy, the prior recourse to unconstitutionality only makes sense with regard to the rules outside the will of Parliament. To extend it to the activity of Parliament, from our point of view, it does not cease to be a regulation of preventive mistrust of the Courts towards themselves as to their will and capacity to defend the same Constitution, something, ladies and gentlemen, which is politically unheard of, and even more unheard of, if so, that this preventive mistrust does not extend to all the legislative activity of this House, as a complaint and has repeatedly denounced the VOX Parliamentary Group. With regard to the new legal regime for the enforcement of the decisions of the Constitutional Court, the amendments to the whole propose its non-derogation or partial modification, without any argument other than the one already set out in the debate to take account of the proposed law of our parliamentary group. Synthetically, we are told the same thing in an apothectic way: it is something inherent in the jurisdictional function. This isn't right. It is a decision of the Constitution as a whole. It is not in all the constitutions that have Constitutional Court and there are countries that have had it in times and not in others. We are also told that it is necessary not to weaken the Constitutional Court, something which is also said in an apothecary way. It says: For our part, it must be remembered that the proposed repeal or, in its case, amendment of the Organic Law 15/2015 is not something pilgrim, as on some occasion it was manifested, but that it has strong support in the particular vows - strong particular vows - to the two sentences that have been cited, and by these strong particular vows, some of the functions that are attributed to it have no place in the model of constitutional jurisdiction that the whole of the Constitution designs. I'm running out of time, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you very much. I trust that these particular votes do not have the support of the House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u150	Thank you very much, Mr. Legarda. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Many thanks to the services of the House. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Bal Francés has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u151	Thank you, President. Good afternoon again. I will start by saying that we are going to vote in favour of the amendment tabled by the People's Group and that we will abstain in relation to the amendment tabled by VOX. In short, the question, what has to be decided, is what is the motive, the reason why the Basque Nationalist Party raises this reform. What interest can it have in avoiding, in nullifying the prior control of the constitutionality of the statutes of autonomy? Of course - it has been said before from this rostrum - they will not deceive us. It's absolutely clear. It is about bordering the Constitution, it is about making reforms of the autonomous statutes, even sometimes patently unconstitutional, then subjecting them to referendum and, finally, the Constitutional Court says that they are unconstitutional and the evil Spanish State opposes the sovereignty of the Basque people or the Catalan people, on that fallacy that sovereignty exists in Spain divided by peoples, instead of corresponding to the whole Spanish nation: national sovereignty. Mr Legarda rightly said this, without hiding himself, when he said that it was a matter of avoiding the clash of legitimacy. No; there is no clash of legitimacy. In Spain, what is legitimate is what is in accordance with the Constitution, not what is submitted to a referendum being unconstitutional. It is a question of bringing about this clash of legitimacy, which is avoided by the existence, precisely, of that previous control of constitutionality of the statutes of autonomy. It is true that the Basque Parliamentary Group is often squandered in its expressions, but here you can see the plumer. He says we're talking about preventive control - yes, of course, preventive control - but he says it's also repressive control. The repressive control of the Constitutional Court with regard to the statutes of autonomy places the Basque Nationalist Party in the dialectics that also use the Republican Left of Catalonia, Junts per Catalunya, Bildu and even the CUP when a ruling that it does not like is read. Look, if you don't like what the Constitutional Court says, all you have to do is abide by it, abide by it, comply with it. It's these little things that the rule of law has. All this, logically, is usually done by all these parliamentary groups which I quote with the support of the partner of government, with the support of Podemos, who always appears when it comes to defending divided sovereignty, when it comes to defending that there are judges who are the armed arm of the right - as we say Podemos - even when the tone rises and it is said that Mr Puigdemont is up to someone like Antonio Machado, who had to be exiled from Spain for the Civil War, or when they vote against article 155 of the Constitution when constitutional legality needs to be restored. I believe that this makes it clear who we - the rest of the groups in the House - are talking about the constitutionalists. To you, Mr. Legarda, we do not, of course, refer. Look, it's very important what the Constitutional Court does. What the Constitutional Court does is to verify that there is such an adequacy of laws, of the Statutes of Autonomy, of the organic laws to the Constitution. You say in your argument that the Constitution is an imposition. What do you mean, an imposition? The Spanish Constitution was voted in 1978 by a very large majority and is the protagonist of the greatest social, economic and freedom progress that this country has experienced in several centuries. Taxation is what is left outside the law, imposition is when the legal order is not respected; it is not imposed when the rule of law imposes respect for the Constitution and the law. Yes, well, it is also true that perhaps the Socialist Party of Catalonia has not helped much, has it not?, with those demonstrations led by Mr Montilla saying that they were going to go against the courts. In addition, you say something else, gentlemen of the Basque Parliamentary Group; you say another curious thing, that is that the Constitutional Court prevents Congress from debating. In this Congress, where you are allowed to swear and promise the office as you please, without any kind of clipboard; in this Congress, where you can talk about what you want, where you almost never call someone to order; in this Congress, where you talk about that infamous table of dialogue with Catalan separatism, you say that the Constitutional Court steals the debate from Congress. Well, look, I don't understand. Stealing debate or silence was what imposed my colleague, José María Espejo - who is sitting there -, Esquerra Republicana de Catalunya in Catalonia when he wouldn't let us talk to the constitutionalists. That is to impose the law of silence!, that is to prevent debate! You know it well, Spain - the Constitutional Court has said it - is not a militant democracy. Here it is possible to defend even different political positions or contrary to the Constitution, provided that they are defended through democratic procedures. This is not the case in other countries in our environment, for example in Germany. Here you can say that you are independentist, here are some gentlemen who say that Spain has to be a federal republic, here are some gentlemen who say I don't know what about a plurinational state - they don't even know what they're talking about - here are others who more or less refer to a Spain, one, big and free. Everyone says what they want, here everyone says what they want, there is no need to abide by or accept the Constitution. It is what has our freedom, freedom always within the rule of law. That is why it is essential that there be prior control of the constitutionality of the statutes of autonomy, because they form part of the block of constitutionality and serve as a benchmark to control the legality of the legal norms in block of the legal order, which is why it is absolutely fundamental. That is why it is not worth the argument that the Constitutional Court challenges the power of the people or challenges the ballot boxes; no!, the ballot boxes are challenged, the will of the people is challenged when painfully illegal laws are passed seeking unconstitutionality and seeking the referendum to encourage the clash of legitimacy! Do you know what I'm telling you? That institutions matter, that parliamentary democracy matters and that the rule of law matters, or at least my parliamentary group does. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u152	Thank you very much, Mr. Bal. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Many thanks to the services of the House. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Pagès i Massó has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u153	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, the full amendments tabled by VOX and the Group of the European People's Party are clearly an involution on the existing rules. The legislative proposals of the PNV are two of the many measures that would have to be taken if there was a genuine will to bring the political life of this State closer to the constitutional principles of full democracy and to remove it from this autarchic path to which it has always tended; an anti-democratic path in which in 2015 the absolute majority of the People's Party deepened, after the success of the Catalan consultation on 9 November 2014, promoting a battery of legislative reforms with the sole objective of judicially blocking the democratic demands of the people of Catalonia and preparing for the repression that would follow. I will start with the Organic Law 15/2015, which gave the Constitutional Court instruments for implementing its own resolutions, a dangerous intrusion into the functions of parliaments and, therefore, an undemocratic affectation of parliamentary autonomy and a violation of the inviolability of parliaments and the separation of powers; concepts, all these, the inviolability of parliaments and the separation of powers, which I have not yet heard here. All for the homeland forgetting, as the particular votes of the Constitutional Court's ruling recall, that the reform broke with the constitutional design and the balances that the constitutional power sought between the different constitutional bodies, because it places the Constitutional Court in an executive role outside its constitutional nature. The most regrettable of all - remember - is that in 2015 this initiative to reform the Organic Law of the Constitutional Court was presented under a clearly electoral appearance. The bill registered it in September 2015, a few weeks before the Catalan elections on 27 September 2015, Mr Xavier García Albiol, who was not even a deputy, but a candidate of the People's Party for the Catalan elections. García Albiol, when presenting the legislative initiative in the register, said: The joke is over. And I think it was right, because it highlighted the Spanish democracy joke of the 1978 regime. Disloyal, unnecessary, irresponsible or unilateral were the adjectives used by all parties, including the PSOE, in the parliamentary debate. Even the former president of the government, Don Felipe González - I am surprised to quote, but so I find myself - said: It seems foolish. The application of article 92 of the Organic Law of the Constitutional Court, the application of these measures of self-guard of the Constitutional Court has led to the persecution of parliamentarians and, in particular, members of the bureaux as if they were simply administrative authorities or officials who disobey a higher authority and not representatives of popular sovereignty; a disregard for the democratic principle and the inviolability of unacceptable parliaments in democracy. Another grotesque example of the implementation of this reform of the Organic Law of the Constitutional Court was the imposition of coercive fines of EUR 12,000 per day on members of the electoral union of the referendum of independence of Catalonia, which could reach up to EUR 30,000. As a member of this electoral union, I had the honour of receiving these ridiculous fines from the Constitutional Court. Please note that amounts fixed without any prior procedure, without any contradiction in the procedure and without any proportion to the conduct intended to be prohibited, nor to the economic capacity of the persons receiving them. They were coercive fines that the European Court of Human Rights itself has already declared to be manifestly punitive and criminal in nature. For its part, the Organic Law 12/2015, which restored the previous remedy of unconstitutionality for draft organic laws and autonomous status, implies an interference of the Constitutional Court in the exercise of the power of statutory reform totally contrary to the separation of powers. The previous remedy is a mechanism of political tutelage that would only be acceptable from a clumsy unitary view of the State, an ex ante political control of popular sovereignty. The statutes are the product of the democratic will expressed, first, by the autonomous and state parliaments and, then, by the people in referendum, and must remain outside any previous control or vaccine of unconstitutionality. The preventive interference of the Constitutional Court vetoes the democratic process and destroys the legitimacy of Parliament itself as a representative of popular sovereignty, and this is more serious if we take into account that the statutes are not any law, they are quasi-constitutional rules, they have quasi-constitutional content, they are endorsed by the people and they constitute, in short, a peaceful norm between the territories, the autonomous communities, the nationalities and the General Courts. Finally, VOX offers us this magnificent proposal to resurrect the preventive control of organic laws, which in the end implies nothing but deepening the distrust in the democratic system and altering the jurisdictional nature of the Constitutional Court. With this proposal, the Constitutional Court would definitely become a third chamber with political functions, which would act as a defender of the Constitution, a concept of internal constitution totally unknown in democratic legal systems and, ultimately, a political veto granted to a non-democratic body, such as the Constitutional Court. What I am surprised is that you, Mr de VOX, have not also proposed to change the composition of the Constitutional Court to allow at least part of its members to be of real designation, because this is what you like, organic democracy. You, gentlemen of VOX, like organic, organic democracy, organic parliamentaryism of the Spanish Courts, parliamentarianism of the Third: family, municipality and union. For all these reasons, Junts will vote against the amendments tabled.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u154	Thank you very much, Mr Pagès. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thanks to the services of the House. Mr Uriarte Torrealday has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u155	Dear Vice President, dear comrades. Mr Ortega Smith, dear Javier, in the defence of your amendment has touched on something that we have heard many times in this House - but which does not let me be surprised - from the right, and it is the assertion that Euskal Herria is a nationalist dream. I've already repeated it. I don't think it's legitimate to make policy about falsehood, about lying. Euskal Herria is no dream, it is the way in which the Basques, in our language, call ourselves. Point. Point, that simple. We are called Euskal Herria; when we speak in Spanish, we are called Basque Country or Basque people; the Basques who live in France call themselves, when they speak in French, Basque Country, and in English they are called Basque Country. That exists, it's not a dream. You can't call reality dream, something you can find on Google or Wikipedia. If instead of dedicating themselves to sowing hatred, they would devote themselves to forming a little, to being educated, they would understand. A political objective, not a dream, would be to want the independence of those who want it. Denying the objective reality of the existence of Euskal Herria is simply trying to make policy about wickedness, falsehood or ignorance. Nothing else, that's for sure. Turning to the issue that brings us here, the reform of the Constitutional Court, I must say that the admission to procedure by this House of the proposed reform of the Organic Law of the Constitutional Court is an opportunity. It is an opportunity to start doing things better, to start reforming, to regulate the laws that entail the status of one of the highest levels of the State on the basis of broad consensus, on the basis of negotiations, on the basis of concessions. It is a moment of calm in which we can address this, not as discussed the previous time, not as was done with the reforms of Organic Law 12/2015 and Organic Law 15/2015. That was the way things should never be done. Laws must never be made that are the basis of the functioning of one of the highest levels of the State, of the body that has such an important function of being supreme interpreter of the Constitution, and regulate through ad hoc rules created to solve the problems of the inability of politics; in order to find a solution to a problem, what we do is to create an ad hoc norm. And how do we do it? For in some cases using an urgent procedure so that there is no debate and that the issues are approved by the back door. That's not the way. Now we do have the opportunity to do it and to do it right; not only do we have the opportunity, we have the obligation to correct mistakes of the past. We must regulate these high bodies of the State with due institutional respect, which has not been achieved. We need to regulate them calmly, we need to negotiate, we need to reach consensus, and what we cannot do, once again, are one-party reforms. Fortunately, there is no longer the absolute majority of that People's Party that gave it legitimacy to make a party reform of the Constitutional Court; fortunately today that cannot be done, and we have to get together, we have to talk, we have to negotiate, we have to work and we have to improve the proposal. That's what we're bound to right now. We oppose these two amendments tabled by the People's Party and by VOX. And why do we object? We oppose for reasons of form and substance. In the case of the People's Party it is obvious, that is, simply for reasons of congruence. It is incongruous for this House to admit to the process of reforming an organic law and for someone to make an amendment to the whole of it to assume that it will not be reformed, but to return to the previous text. Look, if we've already admitted it through, it's that we want to improve it, then don't tell me to go back, because that would simply be an inconsistency with the decision we made when we admitted through this reform. So we oppose the amendment of the People's Party by mere legislative congruence, by mere congruence in our parliamentary work. As for VOX's motion, I say the same thing. What does it mean in the background? It supposes a twist further to this party reform that was at the time that of the People's Party. The amendment to VOX simply exacerbates the use of the previous question, bringing it even to all the organic laws, despite knowing what the consequences are of that being done; that is precisely why it was modified. To Mr. Edmundo Bal, I say the same thing. He has made an apologie as if the fact that there was no previous question was something undemocratic, separatist. So, are all the countries in Europe that have constitutional courts and have no previous recourse independent, red or separatist? Honestly, my dear friend Edmundo Bal doesn't feel good about hyperventilating, doesn't feel good about being crazy, because in that game there will always be people who beat him. A few days ago his fellow citizen presented the defense of animal rights and another companion presented yesterday the defense of trans rights. That's doing constructive politics, proposing politics. That feels so much better than hyperventilating and being crazy, and that's where we should meet. Consequently, we oppose, and we oppose, for reasons of form and for reasons of substance. For reasons of form, because it was an ad hoc reform, because it was a single party reform, because it was done by urgent procedure, because it does not imply institutional respect and does not have the strong consensus that institutional respect requires to a high level of the State. That is why we are opposed, but we are also opposed for fundamental reasons that we will have the opportunity to express in the process, where we are willing to negotiate, agree and reach agreements, which is what politics is looking for. Above all, let's learn one thing: what we can't do is to unravel politics; make the political system not work; create more barriers, more borders and more trenches between us; unravel problems and then create ad hoc solutions, ascribe them to justice for washing our dirty rags. No; we have to solve our problems, we have to make a policy of proposal, a policy based on consensus, agreements and useful policies. This attempt to judicialize politics, as well as politicizing justice, is a veritable barbarity. We need a good policy, a policy that negotiates, a policy that agrees, a policy that creates consensus, a policy that heals wounds, a policy that separates things, and we need it not only at the territorial level, but at all levels. Let's do real politics, which is what they pay us for. Let's solve this country's problems and stop getting crazy. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u156	Thank you very much, Mr. Uriarte. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thanks to the services of the House. For the Socialist Group, Mr Elorza González has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u157	Ladies and gentlemen, Madam, Madam President, good afternoon. The Socialist Group will vote against the two amendments in their entirety for reasons other than those which have been put forward here so far. We have heard a number of speeches, some of them rancid speeches of Spanish nationalism, which in no case can justify the decisions that were taken in its day, in 2015, regarding the reform of the Organic Law of the Constitutional Court; we understand that there are others. The existence of a prior remedy of unconstitutionality before the Constitutional Court on proposals for statutory reform is justified in line with what is advocated by most of the doctrine. The aim is to avoid the complex situation that arises in the event that the Constitutional Court has to declare unconstitutional a rule that has already been subject to consultation with citizens. This must be avoided from any point. There are other reasons for a preliminary ruling by the Constitutional Court. Firstly, the membership of this rule, of a statute of autonomy, to the so-called constitutional bloc. The effective entry into force of a considerable number of precepts of the status of autonomy subject to reform always entails the necessary adaptation and modification of many existing rules, and the political importance that a rapid pronouncement by the Constitutional Court would have with respect to the processes of statutory reform, avoiding the inquisition of open conflicts during the years that may take place until a definitive pronouncement of the Constitutional Court in the event of the absence of the previous appeal. Therefore, in those terms we advocate the existence of this previous remedy, but not in the terms that have been put forward here by different political forces. In any case, this position does not contradict the defence of dialogue and negotiation, as the Socialist Party has always done in the processes of reforming the autonomous statutes of the communities as a whole in Spain. The second part of the amendment to the whole that has been tabled here by VOX and the PP is aimed at the implementation of the resolutions more effectively if it is up to the Constitutional Court. We believe that the amendment of the Organic Law of the Constitutional Court of 16 October 2015 granted it, with the exclusive votes of the People's Party, which had an absolute majority, new extraordinary mechanisms to ensure the effective implementation of its resolutions, either by itself or through any public authority. The most problematic aspect of this reform is probably the attribution to the Constitutional Court of the power to remove public office from office. This could reach the President of the Government or that of an autonomous community, which undoubtedly affects the systemic position of the Spanish constitutional architecture. This kind of competence, from our point of view unnecessary and unorthodox, has not really contributed anything new to the capacity of the Constitutional Court for the thirty-five years it had until then to make its judgments and judgments enforceable and enforceable. The PP still insists today on this part of its amendment to provide the Constitutional Court with new measures, unnecessary and unorthodox measures for the implementation of the rulings of the court and, as brilliantly stated by the Socialist spokesman Antonio Hernando in the debate of the plenary on 16 September 2015, we ratify the consideration that the reform introduced then - by force, I repeat, of the People's Party, which had absolute majority - means, and this is the grave thing, to change the nature of the constitutional jurisdiction of the court; to change the jurisdictional nature of the court. [[The lady]] This reform, which we want to repeal in the course of the process of this bill, also creates an imbalance in the division of functions between the constitutional powers and an invasion of the Constitutional Court towards other branches of the State, such as the legislative or judicial branches. The new measures and mechanisms incorporated into the Organic Law of the Constitutional Court since September or October 1995, specifically in its article 92, translate into unnecessary and unorthodox empowerment of the Constitutional Court at the political, procedural and also punitive levels. But this reform has a history behind it - and it has been explained here - and is that in the Plenary on October 1, 2015, the PP, for reasons exclusively of electoral interest and thinking and analyzing what was happening in the Catalonian process, approved the reform of a law for electoral needs or conveniences. This has undoubtedly meant an armar - an expression used by the rapporteur of the People's Party, Mr Gómez de la Serna - legally to the Constitutional Court, but that speech, that approach, as I say, only served the process that was going on in Catalonia at that time, in 2015, after a consultation carried out by President Mas in November 2014. It was, therefore - it is true - a reform of the law conditioned by that consultation and, however, we then again saw, in 2017, another consultation, in this case, a referendum for self-determination. Because the important thing was not the powers that were granted, that were extended to the Constitutional Court, but what really worked was the implementation of article 155, because the organic law already had sufficient instruments, mechanisms to implement and enforce its resolutions. Finally, I want to point out that today we also have an elephant in this room that you don't want to see, and it's the problem of renewal...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u158	Mr. Elorza, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u159	I'm done, Madam President. ... or, rather, the blockade of the renewal of the Constitutional Court, which is now 18 months old without the renewal being carried out. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u160	Thank you very much, Mr. Elorza.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u161	Thank you, Madam President. - DRAFT AGENCY LAW FOR THE IMPLEMENTATION OF COUNCIL REGULATION 2017/1939 OF 12 OCTOBER 2017 ESTABLISHING ENFORCEMENTED COOPERATION FOR THE ESTABLISHMENT OF THE EUROPEAN TAXATION. [[File number 121/000053]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u162	We turn to the following item on the agenda: Discussion of the full draft organic law implementing Council Regulation 2017/1939 of 12 October 2017 establishing enhanced cooperation for the establishment of the European Public Prosecutor's Office. [[EU]] For the presentation of the bill, I have the floor, on behalf of the Government, for the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u163	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, the adoption of the European Public Prosecutor's Office Regulation in 2017 was a milestone in the process of integrating the Member States of the Union, as well as a giant step in the fight against corruption and large-scale fraud. Now, after four years of preparation, the institution is about to start operating, which will undoubtedly be another turning point in the shaping of a united Europe. Since the beginning of the European project, Spain is one of the countries most committed to the creation and design of the common area of freedom, security and justice. This is demonstrated by their active participation in the implementation and development of all the precursor institutions of a harmonized system for combating crime. But if anything in particular has been particularly encouraging our country is the European Public Prosecutor's Office. The European Public Prosecutor's Office, ladies and gentlemen, is a qualitative leap in the convergence process, since its activation means that for the first time in history a supranational institution will operate on a daily basis and directly within the framework of our judicial system, and Spain, which has been fighting for this institution since the beginning, cannot, should not fail now. Not fulfilling at this time, after leading the march from the beginning, meant a defeat for all. We play our reputation as the driving force of common space. We are faced with a state policy, and I remind you that in order to build a country, it is necessary to be together on issues such as this, where Spain's position in Europe is at stake. Small tactical interests and positions must be left out of this equation. The European Public Prosecutor's Office is called upon to be a fundamental mechanism for protecting the welfare state of all European citizens, as protecting public expenditure in the Union from conduct such as fraud and corruption safeguards public rights and policies such as health and education. Indeed, at the present time, given an unprecedented public spending plan promoted by the Pandemic, it is particularly urgent to strengthen the control and supervision measures of these European funds. It is therefore not surprising that the European Public Prosecutor has already pointed out the importance of this institution within the framework of the recovery plan for Europe, highlighting the connection between the two. To oppose the establishment of the European Public Prosecutor's Office or to impede its entry into operation simply means to prevent the normal functioning of the Community institutions, but above all to put clubs on the road to the fight against corruption in Spain and Europe, with the consequent destabilisation that this would entail for our partners. Well, as you all know, in order to comply with the commitments made, what we must do is to adapt our legal system to the Rules of Procedure of the European Public Prosecutor's Office. In this respect, it should be borne in mind that, according to recital 11 of this rule, which - we must remember - is directly applicable, the European Public Prosecutor's Office, as an organ with its own legal personality, is assigned the following functions: to investigate, prosecute, bring to justice the perpetrators of the crimes against the financial interests of the Union. In addition, the regulation also provides that this new institution will be structured at a central and decentralized level, with both powers to investigate and prosecute. As I have said and will say when it is necessary, the European Public Prosecutor's Office is a European Union body as new as it is crucial, in the context of the fight against corruption. In the immediate future it will be responsible for pursuing criminal conduct such as fraud of European aid or subsidies, corruption affecting funds transferred by the European Union or serious offences of defrauding cross-border VAT. And all this will do so from a position that currently has no legal recognition in our national order, that of the investigating prosecutor or prosecutor in charge of the investigation. That is the generally accepted model in these countries of our environment, which with the provisions of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and the European Public Prosecutor's Office Regulation can already be considered part of the legal acquis characteristic of the European Union. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, and not by chance, the European Public Prosecutor's Office is already born as an institution in charge of criminal investigation. Indeed, we are talking about introducing, on the imperative of the European Union, the investigating prosecutor into our legal system, and if we take into account all that investigative activity that European prosecutors are going to develop under their own regulation, it is clear that the exercise of procedural adaptation that is required of the Member States is so simple for us in the case of Spain as the People's Party intends to see. It should not be forgotten that, as provided for in article 87 of the Organic Law on the Judiciary and article 14 of the Law on Criminal Procedure, in Spain we still retain the figure of the investigating judge as solely responsible for the investigation, with the power of direction and the impulse of any investigative activity exclusive and exclusive to his person. That is why the establishment of the European Public Prosecutor's Office inevitably requires its own regulation; a regulation capable of adapting our nineteenth model to the new legal reality that the regulation imposes on us and which is not comfortable with our current Criminal Procedure Act. In particular, there is a need for a regulatory basis to enable the European Public Prosecutor to assume the functions of investigation and promotion of criminal proceedings, while safeguarding constitutional guarantees through the establishment of a national judicial authority with the status of a genuinely impartial third party responsible for ensuring the protection of fundamental rights. Ladies and gentlemen, as we do not currently have any legal provision to direct and promote the investigation to prosecutors, as well as a basis for conferring powers on judges to exercise control over the investigation carried out by them, it is obvious - I insist, it is obvious - that the only way to make the regulation of the European Public Prosecutor's Office really effective is through a procedural rule specially designed to implement this institution in our legal system. In order for the European Public Prosecutor to be able to act effectively in the terms laid down in his regulation, it is necessary to regulate, at a minimum, aspects which are not regulated today, such as: the legal regime of the decisions which may be agreed by the European Public Prosecutor; the introduction of the figure of the guarantee judge, as well as the determination of its competence and powers; the articulation of a system of remedies allowing to challenge the decisions issued by the European Public Prosecutor and the guarantee judge; the reform in which the particular accusations are to be incorporated into a process led by the prosecutor at the stage of investigation; the specific guarantees that the taxable person of the process must have before the action of the investigating prosecutor; the specificities of certain figures of our legal system such as conformity, controlled delivery and the interception of communications when they are in charge of the prosecutor; the regulation applicable to cross-border investigations that European prosecutors delegated in Spain can carry out in assistance to other European prosecutors and vice versa. In short, ladies and gentlemen, today, our legal system does not provide the necessary legal support for the European Public Prosecutor's Office to perform its functions in Spain or to be able to do so with full coverage, at least as long as we have not passed the new criminal prosecution law. I will make it clear: neither the regulation is sufficient to allow the European Public Prosecutor's Office to operate in our country, nor does the Lecrim provide for the basic rules necessary for this body to carry out the functions conferred on it by its statute. To resolve these issues in order to adapt our system to the regulation is precisely what the draft that brings us here today does in a coherent and systematic way. They have no doubt that, in the absence of a complete and coherent legal provision, the unreplaceable direct application of the provisions of the European Public Prosecutor's Office's Regulation would lead us to a completely intractable legal chaos. And no, that to which the People's Party calls alternative text, and which is nothing more than the reproduction of some articles of the draft government law - that is, a bad short and sticky exercise - is clearly insufficient to answer any of the above questions. In fact, the text is limited to rescuing the organic part of the rule without providing any regulatory solution to the procedural issues that must be resolved if the European Public Prosecutor's Office is to really be established in our country. That is why we have articulated a new special procedure, such as the procedure regulated in the Law of the jury or in the law of minors, in which, by the way, the figure of the investigating prosecutor was already incorporated twenty years ago in our order without anyone getting their hands on the head. This procedure, which contains no more than those strictly necessary to make possible the incorporation of the European Public Prosecutor's Office into our system of justice, is complemented in all that is not expressly regulated by our current Criminal Procedure Act, with which it is not a risky exercise of legal innovation, as has been sought at some point, but rather the fulfilment of a regulatory obligation that cannot be expected any longer. Spain's leadership in the area of enhanced cooperation for the establishment of the European Public Prosecutor's Office largely coincides with the long way our country has taken decades ago towards a new criminal procedural model, but the times that govern both projects are not coincidental. While there will be time for the Chambers to discuss the new Criminal Procedure Act widely, the European Public Prosecutor's Office is immediately activated, in fact, the European Public Prosecutor-General has already formally proposed 1 June as the starting date of the activities, i.e. within a few days. It is therefore imperative to adapt our legal system with the utmost urgency to the provisions contained in the regulation, and to do so, as it cannot otherwise be, in accordance with the constitutional principles governing our legal system. This rule, which certainly can and should be discussed, is the right vehicle to achieve it in time and to do it well. I therefore invite you to be responsible and to build it all together. Thank you very much and good afternoon. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u164	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] An amendment to the entire alternative text has been submitted to this bill. In defence of the amendment tabled, I have the floor, by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Santamaría Ruiz.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u165	Thank you very much, Madam President. I join in thanking the services of the House for their work, which makes this debate possible. I also thank Minister Campo for sharing with my parliamentary group his extensive legal knowledge. The pity is that I do not do the same in the Council of Ministers, because otherwise, surely, you would have been able to avoid the chaos in which Spain finds itself for not accepting that legal plan proposed to you by the People's Party. This country has never been in legal chaos like the one we are currently living in. [[Applauds]] Allow me to begin my speech, ladies and gentlemen, by explaining to you why we have tabled a full amendment to the draft organic law implementing the European Union Regulation 2017/1939, establishing the European Public Prosecutor's Office, and to do so in the first place so that no one has the slightest doubt about the deeply European character of the People's Party and also so that no one doubts even the minimum of the support of the People's Parliamentary Group for the idea of an independent European Public Prosecutor's Office - look at the concept of an independent prosecutor, Mr Campo - who is responsible for defending the financial interests of the European Union, which is not only an idea that we like, that attracts and convinces us, but also seduces us. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, let no one have the slightest doubt that we are in favour and that what we are trying to do is to improve the rule that you have presented. Ladies and gentlemen, in parliamentary terms it is often said that the vain effort leads to nostalgia, so imagine what we feel in my group when we see that Mr Campo brings to this House a bill regulating an independent prosecutor's office, while in Spain Mr Sánchez's government condemns the Spaniards to live with the lack of rigour, with the absence of objectivity, with non-neutrality, with the lack of impartiality and with the lack of appearance of impartiality that means having Dolores Delgado as the state's attorney general. [[Applauds]] As Lewis Carroll reported in his famous book, the Sánchez government has decided or has been pleased to speak to us from both sides of the mirror; on the one hand, by legislating to create an independent prosecutor's office, which we support, and on the other, by appointing Dolores Delgado as the general prosecutor of the state. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a legal oxymoron, if I may say so, and a paradox from which we feel very, very distant. That is why we believe that Mr Sánchez's Government should take good note of this regulation, which is committed to independence, and correct the tremendous despondency involved in the appointment of the current public prosecutor. Mr Sánchez should analyse the principles to which the European Union looks and points when it comes to the judicial power and realise that in Europe the winds that blow when it comes to talking about the judicial power are those of independence and safeguarding the principle of separation of powers, which in Spain this Government and its partners are dedicated to constantly eroding and bombarding, Minister of Justice. Ladies and gentlemen, our amendment does not seek to say no to the European Public Prosecutor's Office; our amendment seeks to be an amendment to the whole of the way Mr Sánchez governs legal matters and, as I say, he has managed to create in Spain the greatest legal chaos in our history, to which we must put an end once and for all. Our proposal, which you have disqualified, in relation to the European Public Prosecutor's Office respects much of the original wording, because we want it to be completed. It respects the part intended to create an independent prosecutor's office capable of ensuring the financial interests of the European Union, for example. But, on the other hand, it proposes to delete all those articles and provisions in which the Government has an objective, which is to remove from this House the debate on a much broader issue, which is that of the investigation by the prosecutors of the criminal proceedings. You have come here without consensus, without dialogue, without calm reflection, without the reflexive debate prior to approval or with that articulation. That is why we propose the repeal of more than a hundred articles and provisions in which the Government, without any negotiation, has decided to move ahead with that parliamentary debate, which will certainly arise when the Criminal Prosecution Act comes to this House. Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot allow the Government to steal from Parliament, the legal operators and society as a whole a debate on a matter as relevant as the present one and that this law, in its long line, gives rise to an accepted, debated and agreed issue which - I repeat - is far from having reached a minimum agreement between all the parties, between all the legal operators. Admitting this article, as the Government proposes, would undermine the free and sovereign power of the legislator to decide on this issue. Therefore, our party says no, for the benefit of parliamentarianism and also the interests of all parliamentary groups. When it comes to touching the basic rules governing our coexistence - and what is the doubt that the Criminal Procedure Act is one of them, one of the most important - we must go ahead, we must bet on dialogue, on calm reflection and, to the extent possible, also on reaching agreements, and in this case neither has been tried nor produced. The government now forgets an issue that you have not referred to, and it is that the European regulation does not necessarily impose a change in the model of criminal investigation. It's not obvious, Mr. Campo, it's not obvious. In fact, other countries of the European Union, such as France, Belgium and Slovenia, have foreseen the coexistence of the European Public Prosecutor's Office with the investigating judge's system. The Ministry therefore converts the European Public Prosecutor's Office into a test bank for the implementation of the model of instruction by the prosecutor. It is not obvious, Minister, that the European Union does not say so. In addition, there is the lack of decorum on the part of the Executive, of which you are a party, because the explanatory statement with which this law is presented says - and I read literally -: it is about using the regulation to give a definitive boost to the structural reform of the Spanish criminal process, a new vehicle towards a new system of criminal prosecution. The Government forgets the provision in the fifteenth recital on which the text of the regulation is based, which states that this regulation does not affect the national systems of the Member States as regards the way in which criminal investigations are organised. It's not obvious what you said it's obvious. It is therefore essential to open a debate and a calm reflection in this regard. I am convinced that the rest of the parliamentary forces are concerned about these issues and therefore I ask them to rebel against this way of governing. Ladies and gentlemen, in short, we are not only presenting an amendment to the whole text of the European Public Prosecutor's Office by presenting a real and possible alternative model, but we also want to use it to present an amendment to the whole because of the way in which this Government deals with, assumes and directs the legal affairs that are generating in Spain, as I say, the greatest legal chaos in all its history. And that way of subtracting certain debates that must be the subject of consensus among political forces is enough for us to say. We say it is enough until the Government realizes that the legal chaos in which we are plunged necessarily creates uncertainty, and that the legal insecurity and institutional weakness are born of chaos and uncertainty. And when a country's institutions are weak, that country is necessarily weak. It is therefore no wonder that what has happened with the terrible crisis that the Kingdom of Morocco has brought about, where you already know, because President Casado has said so, that the Spanish Government will have next door to the People's Party in all matters relating to the defence of national integrity and, look, let us not forget - also national security and cooperation in terrorist matters. Ladies and gentlemen, a strong country is a country in which there is no legal chaos in which we find ourselves immersed, so the Minister will allow me, with venia, to take some liberty to give him some suggestion on how to end this legal chaos. First, stop using the decree-law formula to govern. You are beating all the historical records as far as the use of this legal figure is concerned, with the approval of thirty-nine decrees in the last twelve months and with the approval of five additional decrees in all that goes into this first quarter of the year. And not all are motivated by reasons of urgent need, and not all are motivated by the pandemic situation that we live in, so that in recent weeks there have been rulings of the Constitutional Court that have ruled against that way of governing that you use to place Mr. Redondo and the Churches in the CNI or to absorb the administrative mutualities. And I fear that it will not be the last decisions of the Constitutional Court in this regard, because the decree-law governing the cassation appeal - I am convinced - will follow that same path. Another measure I propose, Your Honor. We suggest that you accept the legal plan B that gives security to the Spaniards in the descalade, as the People's Party has been proposing for months and which you have consistently denied. [[applause]] Yesterday, Mr Campo, you stated in an interview that 'it is not necessary to change the law after the state of alarm'; I repeat: 'it is not necessary to change the law after the state of alarm'. Just a few days earlier he said, in an interview too: 'except that the courts say otherwise'. What are we left with, Minister? Is it necessary, not necessary, or do we wait for what the courts say? And in this same order of things, I ask you to help me explain the issue, and that is why the Spaniards exercise our fundamental rights in an unequal way according to the autonomous community in which we reside. Can you explain it to me? Because I'm not able to understand it and, which is much more serious, I'm not able to explain it to my nineteen-year-old daughter. I sincerely ask you, from the heart, to pass it on to me, to tell me, because I have run out of arguments to explain why she can't go out on the street and her friends in other cities of Spain can go out on the street, because I don't understand it. [[Applauds]] What's the point of changing the cassation appeal? Do you realize that you have fixed the appeal of cassation with a double consequence? It will be the Supreme Court that resolves the clashes or the different measures taken by the courts of justice in the area of pandemics. But don't you realize that, therefore, the Spaniards will blame the Supreme Court if they derive pandemic consequences from their actions or their failure to act? That is a barbarity, that is to delegate a responsibility for which you have been elected and for which you are remunerated. Besides, they've done it in an amazing way and I've heard you mention Mr. Bal before. I am going to paraphrase Mr Bal: they have done so by denying the possibility that anyone who sees their fundamental rights affected can resort to this avenue of cassation. How are we going to protect people from our fundamental rights, which are ours, when we are denied access to the avenue of cassation? [[Applauds]] Your Honor, we are, as I say - and I am finishing - plunged into legal chaos, in addition to their unwillingness to appear. We owe twenty-one appearances in this House. You appeared yesterday, but you appeared yesterday because the decision of the sentencing body on the trial is about to take place, and because you - and correct me if I am wrong - will not dare to come to this House when the decision of that sentencing body is known; that is why you came yesterday and will not come - and, if not, you will no longer correct me with your presence in this House - when you know that the Prosecutor's Office and the sentencing body are against granting the exercise of the right of grace to persons convicted by the trial.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u166	Mr. Santamaría, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u167	Yeah, I'll be right there. I just want to say to you, Your Honor, that in that sense, I look, because when the discretion of the government is exceeded, it is already being spoken of as prevarication. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u168	Thank you very much, Mr. Santamaría. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] I give the floor to the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u169	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Santamaría, I would have liked you to focus more on the draft law of the European Public Prosecutor's Office, which is what brings us here, and not on all that buffoon, with which you have shown us the lack of clarity of legal concepts that have your difficulty in explaining it to your daughter. Believe me, I understand you, I can understand you. [[Applauds]] Your Honor, focus on what you bring us, on your amendment as a whole. I'll tell you one thing. Don't try mixing barbecues with merinas because it doesn't usually end well. I have explained to him why this debate should not be taken away from the House - I think I am encouraging it - and that, on the other hand, it coincides with seven years of the People's Party at the head of the government. The two ministers who occupied this portfolio promoted the idea of the investigating prosecutor. I hope that a great debate will be opened and that it will be enriched by your positive contributions, because I do not have any pain in giving your group, members of your group and the Committee on Justice, as you very well know. Now, I'll tell you one thing. I'm sure you can't forget your sense of state. It tells us that we can't bring a preliminary draft when we haven't discussed Lecrim. I told him that the process will be opened - he is in the process of consultations - and that he will come and when it is approved he will have six years of legal vacation. See if we have time to talk, but here we are talking about a parallel issue. It is a criminal procedure that is established in the European Union with a very specific objective and crimes: to defend the economic interests of the Union, and the regulation, which is directly applicable, requires that there be a procedure to be able to articulate this process, because the process is sacred, is the temperature at which a country's democracy is measured. All of Europe follows the guidelines of the investigating prosecutor, which is what is laid down in the Commission's regulation, adopted in recital 11. I read it textually in my previous speech. I went over it to see if I was wrong, but no. Recital 11 clearly states the role of prosecutors: to investigate, to prosecute. Therefore, we need to articulate a procedural mechanism that allows the performance, the control of the judge of guarantees of what he investigates and of the prosecution's actions, the allocation of fundamental rights. Your Honor, we don't have six years to argue. I told him, in case he had been forgotten, that on 1 June, that is, in a few days' time, the operation will start. That is what the European Public Prosecutor has said. Therefore, we have an obligation as state parties to provide regulatory coverage so that we do not get sick in Europe, because we are partners in a club in which we are committed and have a very high face because we are involved in its regulation and strengthening. If we do not, you will once again say what you are promoting on many occasions, which is the deterioration of the image of the country and the situation of justice. That's why I'm asking you to reconsider your performance. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u170	Thank you very much, Minister. Under Rule 73, you have three minutes of reply, Mr. Santamaría.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u171	Thank you very much. I rise to the rostrum for not answering from my national president's seat, out of respect. Minister, I do not work with you in legal terms because I know that you are a person who, of course, has much more legal knowledge than I do. Of course, I will not compete with you in those terms, but in terms of common sense. Please note what you have just said regarding compliance with European legislation, which Spain is going to miss out on with the European Union. How dare this government talk about the European Union in the area of justice if they have been giving them hats for about six, seven or eight months? How dare you, who has turned the legal world and all legal operators in some cases into a gallery? [[Applauds]] With all due respect, I have to tell you. Counsel for the Administration of Justice are against their rules on procedural speeding up and trade union organizations complain that they are not consulted on the terms to which they are referred and that the law requires them to be the subject of collective bargaining. What do I tell you about the 2500 judges? What a picture we have given in Spain, with the 2500 judges who walk through Europe disqualifying the Ministry of Justice and the Government of Spain demanding freedom and independence! And you tell me that we are jeopardising the safeguarding of mandates and compliance with the rules that come from the European Union. Minister, you haven't been very right. And, above all, I still have no answer to a question, which, probably with my legal clumsiness, I do not know how to raise in any other way, but explain to me why the exercise of fundamental rights arises in a different way depending on the autonomous community where he resides. They are fundamental rights recognized in the Constitution, they can be limited only by a certain legal regime. The courts can endorse certain limits, but the Spaniards do not want to live like this, subject to the different criteria of the different courts, are rights that the Spaniards gain with the Constitution, and you have not answered me. And if I give you the explanation that you give me to my daughter, surely, when I get here tonight, you'll throw me in hats. [[Laughter]] Explain to me! It's very simple, why can't a 19-year-old girl go out in Valencia and actually go out in any other city in this community? Because it seems to me the simplest explanation, not legal, but simple. As far as common sense is concerned, Minister, I have to disagree with you. I have to disagree because what we propose is not its non-application, but to do one thing which is the same thing that countries like France have done, which does not seem to be a smaller country; that is to say to apply it and that it is the investigating judge who carries out all those functions that are assigned to the European Public Prosecutor's Office, and that would not pose any problem, because, if not, you go to France to explain to them that you are wrong and that you must therefore be very clumsy in the cradle, practically, of the right or where you drink much of our right. I shall end with a consideration which I did not wish to make before, but which I will now do, with the permission of my parliamentary group. Minister, you are not the owner of the 'Official State Gazette', so you know; and you are like stupidity or hydra, which has two heads, sometimes you put on one head the hat of the parliamentary group and on the other the hat of the government group. We are a much more modest party, with much less legal knowledge than you, but we only have one hat. Therefore, when statements of reasons are approved insulting the people with whom you want to consent...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u172	Mr. Santamaría, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u173	...I already tell you that this situation is being corrected or, if my group listens to me, we will not lend our affirmative vote...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u174	Thank you very much, Mr. Santamaría.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u175	... in any of the reforms you propose from your ministry, Minister. [[Applauds.-Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u176	I give the floor to the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u177	Mr Santamaría, on the European Public Prosecutor's Office, I think I can add little. The only thing I ask of you is a sense of state and that you understand the importance of the issue. We have a process in which we can correct, respond to sensitivities, because I think we do, I think he is used to not having a text that comes without consensus, without talking until exhaustion. But there is one thing I don't want to stay with: when I come home tonight, tell your daughter, on my part and with affection, that it is normal that different situations are dealt with with with different situations, and that, thus, also see what the fundamental right means, that it is something very important, and that it is logical that in the restriction or limitation the Judicial Power intervenes, because that is the fundamental role of the Judiciary, to be guarantor of the exercise of fundamental rights. And then he ends up explaining to him that there are two areas of competence: one, of a general nature, which involves the limitation of fundamental rights for all, and another, of a particular nature; in private individuals, a law, with the Aznar Government, said in 2015 - I think I recall - that, please, when they will be affected by an autonomous community a judge of contentious matters will validate it. We, in the September law of this year, said, in order to give greater legal certainty, that they were the rooms of the contentious; and now we have just introduced something that I know you are terrified of, but it gives me a lot of peace as a lawyer, and it is that the High Court, the Supreme Court, is the one that unifies the doctrine, so that there are no discrepancies and your daughter can understand perfectly that in Spain there is a rule of law and that equal situations are treated equally. I hope that suits you. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u178	Thank you very much, Minister. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u179	Thank you very much, President. I will speak from the seat because I will do so briefly to express our opposition or our lack of support for this whole amendment. And we will do so for two reasons: the first, because before life and projects we believe that there are two basic attitudes or two basic ways to approach them, with confidence or distrust. We approach this project with confidence; it has novel elements in the Spanish criminal procedural culture - since the 19th century were being done otherwise - but we believe it is an appropriate time to introduce us to the path of a criminal investigation led by the Prosecutor's Office. Of course, that carries a number of consequences, carries guarantees, a guarantee judge, drags an intermediate phase, drags new remedies because there are decisions of bodies that previously did not issue them. In short, we have tabled a number of amendments which we believe can be improved. We will talk to the rest of the groups, also with the Government, and surely we will improve the text, which is obviously a novel text and generates a certain vertigo - in quotes - but we believe it is time to do so. The second reason is that, given the amendment as a whole, given the explanatory statement and the articulation, the truth, Mr Santamaría - and I tell you with all the affection that you know I have - we do not understand it. We do not understand the motivation, which is very vague in the explanatory statement, nor the articulation that is made in the project. I was hoping that your speech would shed some light on me, but the truth - the minister has already told you and it is not because I join government positions - has made very little clear to me. Taking advantage of the saying, if we were talking about Pisuerga, really Valladolid has informed us enough, and also about the hills of Ubeda, but really little project. Therefore, for that twofold reason or reason we cannot support your amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u180	Thank you very much, Mr. Legarda. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Bal Francés has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u181	Thank you, President. Good afternoon again. Good afternoon, Minister. The first thing I want to do is congratulate you because you come here in person to defend your laws, which is a strange, unfortunately strange thing in the Congress of Deputies. I would also like to congratulate you on the text of the law, because it is difficult to introduce the procedure established by the European Union Regulation of 2017 into a system that is not prepared for the investigation of the Prosecutor's Office, it is complicated. Although there are things that we do not like about this organic bill and we have tabled our partial amendments - it has also been said earlier by Mr Legarda - we do, however, recognize the effort your ministry has made in this adaptation. This draft organic law is a system of cooperation strengthened by which a European Public Prosecutor's Office is created to pursue corruption; a system of cooperation strengthened to which nine countries of the European Union are joined and twenty-two have joined. It is therefore a successful organic bill within the European Union. In addition, it pursues corruption in crimes that I carry in my heart because I have pursued them throughout my professional life, such as the tax crime of VAT over EUR 10 million when cross-border conduct takes place, bribery, embezzlement, money laundering, criminal organisation, fraud of European subsidies. This is an organic bill that has three things that for Citizens are beautiful, three things that for Citizens are essential. These three things are: the first, Europe; the second, the fight against corruption and the third, the independence of the Prosecutor's Office. These are three things that my party, which my parliamentary group, has tried to defend in this Parliament in all the legislatures in which we have been. It is therefore a source of joy that we can speak here in the rostrum that the Spanish Government intends to combat corruption, because, Minister, despite congratulating you, in three years of the Socialist Party's government no initiative has been presented in this Parliament for the effective fight against corruption. And not only that, they also vote against the proposals we put forward to them in an integral plan for the fight against corruption. Yesterday, in the Committee on Justice and Home Affairs, what about the transposition of the directive on whistleblowers and whistleblowers? Finally, it seems that you are fighting corruption because it obliges Europe. Well, then, bless Europe. Thank you, Europe. And the PP presents a comprehensive amendment in a law that fights corruption. I don't know if there's anything else to comment on. Mr. Santamaría, I tell you with all due respect, I don't know if there's anything else to say, because you're looking for an excuse. The Minister has already replied in relation to the recitals in the Rules of Procedure. I tell you more, Article 28 of the regulation makes it very clear, it is the prosecutor who instructs or instructs the investigation, but the decision, the choice, is the European prosecutor's, not the investigating judge's. The regulation expressly states that the investigation cannot be submitted to any national authority. Secondly, we are talking about the authority of the independent European Public Prosecutor's Office. I want to say what we read in the Asterix Thebes: 'These Romans are mad'. These Europeans are crazy. An Independent Prosecutor's Office; Minister, look at you. We all remember that phrase: Who does the prosecution depend on? Well, that's it. You are named as the Attorney General of the State to whom you are Minister of Justice, to whom you are a socialist Member of Parliament, and you find that Europe tells you, man, better the independent Prosecutor's Office. You, gentlemen of the People's Party, have ruled this country with an absolute majority, and you also did not want to disengage the Office of the Attorney General politically because you do not want to lose that power. They only raise the independence of the Office of the Prosecutor when they are in opposition. When it's up to you to be in the government, then no, then you want to appoint the state attorney general. I have to reproach you more with all my affection, Minister - do not take it personally because it is not entirely your responsibility - but we are talking about a regulation of 2017, which comes into force on June 1 and we are already late, as always. Spain is always late in transposing, or implementing, or implementing European standards! As I have already said in the Committee on Justice, the Ministry of Justice is a technical ministry, we must stop doing politics and we must do the duties imposed on us by Europe and the citizens. Finally, and thirdly, we have the European funds of the Next Generation, European funds worth 140 billion. You have decided that these funds will be applied in a discretionary manner by a gentleman named Ivan Redondo. Other countries, such as France, have attributed this execution to a former head of the International Monetary Fund and a Nobel prize, no less. Mr Draghi has appointed the minister who was President of Vodafone to execute these European funds. This morning I was reading the Confilegal and I said that one out of every three Spanish companies has no claim to be able to access European funds to execute their projects, because there is not even a website that informs them of the requirements to be met. Let me tell you that I have all my suspicions that the application of European funds will incur corrupt practices, just as happened with José Luis Rodríguez Zapatero's Plan in the R+D+i funds of the Ministry of Industry, which I was inflated to pursue as a state attorney. So yes, it is good news, indeed, that a European Public Prosecutor's Office is set up to monitor the implementation of these European funds and to pursue corruption practices, because I do not know if it knows that OLAF says that Spain is the European champion of corruption in the fraud of European subsidies. From 2014 to 2018, 10 995 cases; Romania, which is the second, 5500 cases. So we will indeed vote against the amendment to the whole of the People's Party. We hope the same as Mr Legarda has said, to improve this law, for example, on things such as the abolition of the popular accusation, which we do not understand, but we welcome the fact that an independent Prosecutor's Office, the control of European funds and, ultimately, the fight against corruption are in place. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u182	Thank you very much, Mr. Bal. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, I give the floor to Mrs Illamola Dausà.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u183	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon. In Junts Per Catalunya we believe in the European project and, therefore, in everything that means increasing European integration always, they will always find us. Such is the present case of the development of the Space of freedom, security and justice, a space that must allow people, all who find themselves in this space, to move freely, to make everyone feel safe and to let everyone know that there is a guaranteed judicial system in that space. We regret that the European Regulation on the European Public Prosecutor's Office is an act of enhanced cooperation and hope that in the future the five European Union states that are not yet part of it will join it. It has been said that the material scope of the regulation is criminal offences which harm the financial interests of the European Union and related offences. For example, there has been fraud in the transactional VAT for which some EUR 50 billion is lost annually, there have also been offences related to the structural funds, there is talk of an misuse of EUR 638 million, and we hope - it has been said a moment ago - that crimes linked to the Next Generation funds should not be prosecuted. The European Public Prosecutor's Office must be, according to the Regulation, a fully independent body both organically and functionally, and must be a body not subject to orders or instructions from either the European Union or any of its Member States. Therefore, from Junts per Catalunya we hope that this is true, we hope that in the Kingdom of Spain they respect it and that we do not have to hear those phrases again like the Prosecutor's Office on whom it depends or the Prosecutor's Office adjusts it to you. In the same vein, we also hope that the changes that must be made in the domestic order will help the national authority to act as an impartial third party and guarantee respect for human rights. In relation to these changes, we do not understand the times. The bill deals with a matter of sufficient importance and sensitivity so that all political parties have sufficient time to analyse it in detail and to propose amendments. As we know, the draft was registered on 28 April; last Monday, 17 May, the deadline for the submission of amendments in full ended, and yesterday Wednesday, the deadline for amendments to the joint text ended. We have in this House, in several committees, various bills and legislative proposals which, week after week, are extending the deadline for amendments to the joint text. And in this particular they leave us so little time. Why? Is it not considered relevant, is everything decided or is it that they are late? Minister, you have told us that the Office of the Prosecutor will start operating on 1 June with the start of its activities. It has therefore been more than three years since the European regulation was adopted and has entered into force to do the work that we now have to do quickly and quickly, as is often the case. Despite this, despite these times that we do not share, we have tabled some amendments on the competition aspect, because the adaptation of European legislation cannot be used as a means of decentralization of judicial proceedings. And we will vote no to the amendment as a whole because we believe that with amendments to the joint text it is sufficient. From here, for all this, we urge the government - which always wants to lead and is called a Europeanist - to push forward Article 86(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and to extend the powers of the European Public Prosecutor's Office in the fight against serious crime with a cross-border dimension. From the point of view of Junts per Catalunya, this would be a further step in European integration and in consolidating the area of freedom, security and justice, in which we believe. Perhaps this extension of the Union's powers which the Treaty itself already envisages would be an aspect to be taken into account in the context of the Conference on the Future of Europe which has just begun its course. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u184	Thank you very much, Mrs. Illamola. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the Union Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, I have the floor Mr Pisarello Prados.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u185	Thank you very much, President. We are in favour of this project because we also believe that a European Public Prosecutor's Office can be a first piece to make Europe credible in a fundamental matter such as the fight against corruption and fraud. In reality, it should be said that for several decades now neoliberal globalization has led not only to fierce deregulation of financial markets, but to a scandalous vacuum of public law at European and international level. In that context, we have seen, even during the pandemic, how State criminal and procedural rights have acted quite selectively and have continued to engage with socially marginalized sectors, with migrant populations, with unemployed people. On the other hand, it is very rare to see that, in fact, investigations are being carried out when we talk about the big fraud, when we talk about the concealment of funds in tax havens, of money laundering or the diversion of public funds to private pockets. When one sees all this, it comes to mind what the great Polish socialist Rosa Luxemburg said: neoliberal globalization has facilitated a system of controls and penalties that only traps small sardines, but that normally does not tickle some of the voracious sharks that act on the market. In our view, Europe has not yet done its job. He didn't do it in 2008, but now he has a great opportunity to do it. There is much talk these days, for example, of the need for a European new deal, and I thought that President Franklin Delano Roosevelt did the first thing when he wanted to launch the new deal was to appoint an independent, guarantoristic and courageous attorney general like Prosecutor Robert Jackson. Prosecutor Jackson, who was an independent prosecutor, did not shake his pulse by investigating the large companies that wanted to escape the new labour regulations or tax obligations they had, in the same way that he did not shake his pulse, during Nuremberg's trials, to sit down the large corporations linked to Krupp, linked to the Flicks and the large conglomerates that had benefited from national socialism. And now, President Biden - which is obviously not Franklin Delano Roosevelt - is proposing something similar, he is saying that in a pandemic context we need a fundamental tax change and we need mechanisms of investigation, control and guarantee that do not deceive themselves only with the small sardines and do something to enable the large speculative sharks, above all, to fulfil their obligations. If Europe stops charging not only VAT, but stops charging Google, Amazon or the technologies that benefited from the pandemic, it has a cost of some EUR 150 million per year, a quantity that could either finance a European public health system, a European basic income or so much. That is why, in our view, if Europe wants to be credible in its commitment to social and environmental justice, it must already create inspection and control mechanisms to effectively combat large-scale fraud. The figures of the fraud economy, as economist John Keneth Galbraith called it, are a scandalous attack on public budgets, social rights, democracy. For example, according to the latest Tax Justice Network report, the Tax Justice Network, the world loses more than $427 billion in taxes due to international tax abuse and, in the case of Europe, these losses amount to more than €167 billion. More than half are lost because large multinational companies transfer their profits to tax havens. The remainder is lost due to the concealment of assets and income of unreported wealthy persons abroad. This is not harmless from the point of view of public finances: to more fraud, less funds for economic recovery; to more tax havens, less funds for decarbonisation, for ecological transition; to more fraud, less funds for SMEs, for small producers, less vaccines, less strengthening of public health, science, education. And in the face of that, it seems to us that there can be no doubt; we do need, in fact, robust tax agencies and independent prosecutors, coordinated both at state and European level, to prevent this indecent aggression against the public coffers that often occur. Today, Minister, we are faced with a first step, which is insufficient but which, indeed, is impregnable. It was not articulated, I repeat, in the 2008 crisis, but it should now be articulated that European Public Prosecutor's Office, which is guaranteed, courageous, coordinated with the State Prosecutors' Offices with the aim, as I say, of ending the great impunity, of a State Prosecutor's Office, of course, independent of political powers, but also independent of economic power. We have for many years, too, I would say, with very serious crimes against the public finances committed not only by companies, but by political parties, by officials or by members of State institutions. I believe that I am not mistaken if I say that it is especially serious and one of the hardest and that it has most affected our external reputation that made public the Royal House itself, admitting that a former head of state, the emeritus king, could have committed money laundering crimes, crimes of tax evasion. These crimes are now being investigated by the Supreme Court Prosecutor's Office and the Swiss Prosecutor's Office. It is a good thing that there was a European Public Prosecutor's Office who also understood that such crimes are a very serious attack against the public interest, against the general interest. That's obviously not solved with makeup measures. We are all aware that the pandemic has generated such a profound social, economic and health emergency that the changes must be bold, and some signs are coming from the United States. Therefore, the situation in which we are calling for profound reforms, a taxation that is capable of putting limits on the savage powers, also on the market, not only on the state, and a real democratization of the economy. A European Public Prosecutor's Office can be a first step, I repeat, but it must not make us forget the ultimate objective, which I believe is that at European and also at international level we are able to deploy a multi-level system, from the judicial point of view, from the point of view of the Public Prosecutor's Offices, to establish clear, fair and egalitarian rules and, above all, to demonstrate to citizens that they are not prepared to take advantage of small sardines, but that they are also willing, by independence and when necessary, to set limits on the great private powers. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u186	Thank you very much, Mr Pisarello. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the VOX Group, Mr Sánchez García has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u187	With all due respect, Madam President. Mr President-in-Office of the People's Party, you have made your speech quite clear. You have no doubt that we all respectfully bow to the empty chair left by Mr Married. [[Laughs.-Applause.]] It would have been my wish in this speech not to question the People's Party when it tabled this amendment in its entirety to the draft organic law implementing the European Regulation on the establishment of the European Public Prosecutor's Office, but it is not possible, and we are sorry. We would have sincerely liked to agree with the People's Party, but the People's Party does and says quite strange, strange, vacilating, dubious things, and in this case it makes serious mistakes; I would dare to say that they are gross errors, that is, of utter ignorance, that is to say with due respect. [[Rumors]] You come here, let go of your political speech, inconsistent with the amendment that you yourself have tabled, you talk about everything that you think is appropriate, and you probably do it to show a hard, ironic, fierce opposition to the government, but this morning you vote yes to the Comprehensive Protection of Children and Adolescents Act, which is a law whose content is intrinsically immoral, a law soaked with mistrust towards families and the Spanish judiciary. [[One Member: Take it now!-Another Member: Very well!-Applause]] Then, this opposition is a little light, to say the least. But this amendment makes no sense at all, and I will explain why. First of all, your background. Your background is in this matter - and never better said - criminal, Mr. Spokesman of the People's Party; well, figuratively - figuratively - although you also have criminal background in your own sense, and many, and you still have to ventilate some files that are not yet historical, but will be so in the future. But, finally, let's forget about this thing now, about its corruption. The PP, the People's Party, ruling Mr Rajoy participates in 2017 in promoting this enhanced cooperation initiative for the creation of the European Public Prosecutor's Office - explained the minister, who will be very pleased with what I have said so far; then he will come to you his turn -, and then now he says he doesn't like it. [[laughs]] [[Mr. Santamaría Ruiz pronounces words that are not perceived]] Yes, yes, here I have the text of your amendment; I have read it. Look, it's even underlined. [[Show a document]] He says that he does not like, that he has doubts, that this from the investigating prosecutor is a radical change in the laws of criminal procedure in Spain. At that time you liked and promoted this initiative, the implementation of which, once the regulation has been adopted, is binding on Spain; Spain cannot depart from this regulation. It gives me the impression that you don't understand this very well either. If you ask your daughter about this particular, I don't know if she'll be able to answer. [[Rumors]] Moreover - the minister, a dialectical circumstantial ally for a few seconds, has also remembered - the minister says that you, governing at that time Mr Aznar, were the ones who promoted the Organic Law regulating the criminal responsibility of minors, of 12 January 2000, article 6 of which states, in effect, that the investigation is directed by the prosecutor's office. So, this thing pushes me around, this apprehension does this? I'm sorry, but you don't understand. There is no contradiction in the sense of formal logic, there is contradiction between what you have already done twice in the international order and in the internal order and what you are now telling us here in this House. I am not going to ask you why this contradiction, because it is obvious that you do not even know it yourself. Then, I will not fall into your daughter's temptation to ask her questions of impossible answer on her part. [[Laughter]] I wonder if this behavior is the same as what Mr. Married calls a government party; I don't know. I get a chill when I remember those phrases of Mr. Married and I see these kinds of initiatives that you propose. In addition, if the PP's will is to amend the proposal for organic law, you cannot submit an amendment to the whole other than return, because if you do so with alternative text you have to refute in that amendment to the whole with alternative text the guiding criteria of the draft, if not, makes no sense, and you are what you have done, therefore, deficient legislative technique as well. Then, a government party? I doubt that, with great questions. A party with very poorly exploited parliamentary experience; many years, but very poorly exploited. And here you show yourself with this scarcity, a little insulting, frankly. Secondly, the reform of the Criminal Procedure Act is true, which includes in the preliminary draft, which is the only thing known so far, that the competence of the investigation is attributed to the prosecutor rather than to the judge. Well, we know that. We will like it or not, and there will be time to express our position on that particular, to oppose, to amend, etc. But I tell you one thing, and it is that the European Public Prosecutor's Office, for you to understand, is not an institution regulated by Article 124 of the Constitution, which is the one regulated by the Spanish Public Prosecutor's Office, is a separate, separate institution; then one cannot reason in terms of domestic law. This doesn't make sense. It is a lack of knowledge of the relationship between internal law and Union law; it is a serious lack of knowledge, as I said before, that I would dare to call it a crash. In short - I have two seconds left and I am going to meet the time that has been allocated to me -, another birria of the People's Party, which has also had the defachability today...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u188	Mr. Sanchez, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u189	... to adorn it with allusions to the other brewery, that plan B that doesn't exist. [[Applause. - Prolonged applause by the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Group, on the stand]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u190	Thank you very much, Mr Sánchez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, Mr Aranda Vargas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u191	Thank you, Madam President. Well, he's left alone. If this was the new cycle, Mr. Santamaría, then you'd better go back to the previous one, wouldn't you? [[Applauds]] You come here and tell us - I have pointed out - about the CNI, Morocco, plan B - by the way, we don't want anything of yours in. As you like the sayings so much, it's like the master bonder, who knows everything and understands nothing. [[Applauds]] The PP brings us a sham - because it is generous - amendment to the whole of the bill that comes to adapt a European regulation, and I would like to dwell on two aspects. I'm going to talk about it - they'll forgive me for talking about it, because there are people who haven't done it and they're used to it. Here it has been said what it is and what the European Public Prosecutor's Office is supposed to be. Perhaps some have had the temptation to think that we have randomly cast here a legislative whim, that there was nothing else to choose from and that we have brought this. Well, no. The rule you are amending adapts to our order a Council Regulation of 2017 establishing the European Public Prosecutor's Office. For what? Look out for this. To combat and prosecute crimes which harm the financial interests of the Union and thus the interests of European citizens. What exactly do you don't like about this phrase? Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, this is about effectively combating corruption and transnational organised crime, harmonising legal systems, and dealing with cases of fraud, such as the fraudulent use of European funds or the fraud of cross-border VAT. But it is that, in addition, this Office of the European Union and the European Delegates' Prosecutors have already had previous rules in our State to accommodate this regulation; for example, the access of prosecutors of Spanish origin to the jobs of the European Prosecutors' Office, which was made by royal decree in February 2019, or the transposition of the directive, which was made on 20 February of the same year. I know it's hard for you to keep up with the government, because you're not used to it, but I'm asking you to be a little serious, ladies and gentlemen of the PP. That is to say, we are working effectively - and I do not think we need to remember this pandemic year at this stage - to incorporate into our system a regulation which, after three years, will come into force this June. So we're just asking you, if it's not too much to ask, to help us, ladies and gentlemen of the PP, and don't put any more sticks on the wheels. I would also like to make a mention here. It is done with exquisite legislative work and legal quality by the ministry, which also provides a clue for the imminent landing of the reform of the Lecrim, with the criminal investigation commissioned to the Prosecutor's Office incorporating the judge of guarantees. That, ladies and gentlemen, leads me to the crux of the matter, to its amendment, to the extravagance of an initiative, to submit a full amendment to a draft law implementing the European Council Regulation. Look, I've seen things, but here's the note. We've been to a bunch of bad-paying excuses from the PP spokesman, that party right now you see me, now you don't see me... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u192	Excuse me, Mr. Aranda, just a moment. I'm asking for silence, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u193	It's the interest in the prosecution, which moves them. [[Applauds]] As I was saying, that party is ambivalent, the party of now you see me, now you do not see me, a party of state in the morning and a whitening party of the far right in the afternoon that does not cease to surprise us. To be honest, a great deal of effort must be devoted to understanding the motivations behind this amendment. To clarify myself, Mr. Spokesman, Mr. Santamaría, I ask you, with all due respect and affection, the following. What's PP gonna have in front of us this time? The PP that deals with the Civil Registry or the Disability Act this morning or the one that blocks the Council? The one who believes in Europe or the one who does not believe in Europe? The one who takes advantage of a crisis with Morocco to torpedo the government? The one who has not yet apologized - yes, your absent president - for launching the patrana of the vaccination of former Minister Illa? That PP? [[Applauds]] At this point it is already very difficult to follow the mental and political schemes of his party. They say that it is - and I have thought so - a party of government, with high responsibilities of government and whose European political family has responsibilities in the Commission, but they bring an amendment to the whole instead of focusing on a debate in the Commission that we will have next week. You tell us about Europe, when you have turned your MEPs into an agency of agitation, into an agency of contempt for the government; you, who are the ones throwing your MEPs against the government day and day too. Ladies and gentlemen of the PP, this is not, with all due respect, a GNP in the Commission, this is a bill coming from Europe. I ask you, since they do not defend us there, here at least do not hinder the legislative work too much. [[Applauds]] The European Public Prosecutor's Office cannot be another of its Chinese dishes that are moving day and day too, because in the end they will all fall. I ask you to stop jamming and stop blocking. By the way, and since you have taken it out, are you really going to leave the Council without reform until you can get to the government? Because I don't know if justice will be stopped for so many years, I don't know if we will have to wait for so many years. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that this amendment - I have thought a little bit about why - is the result of the hard awakening you are having. After the ephemeral fantasy that their leader makes them believe, reality is what it is. They wake up, the government is still here, the coalition is still here, we are continuing to work, we are continuing to reform, we are continuing to legislate, we are ultimately continuing to transform. So, ladies and gentlemen, make yourselves comfortable. Let's get to work because the legislature is on hold. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u194	Thank you very much, Mr. Aranda.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u195	We turn to the last item on the agenda, on the proposal from the Commission on Social Rights and Comprehensive Disability Policies, for the creation of a subcommission for the study of a state pact against anti-Gypsyism and the inclusion of the Gypsy people. This proposal is submitted to the plenary without any previous debate. The vote on this item will take place, together with the rest of the votes, in three minutes. Ladies and gentlemen, I remind you that you will only be able to vote from your seat, identified with your name on the screen. I would also remind you that those Members who have been authorized to vote for the telematics procedure cannot do so from their seats. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u196	Ladies and gentlemen, we shall begin the voting. Please take your seats. No-law propositions. No bill of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress on the reprobation of the Minister of the Interior. The vote was taken on the terms resulting from the incorporation of the amendment tabled by the VOX Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: 104 plus 245 telematics votes, 349; in favour, 39 plus 113 telematics votes, 152; against, 65 plus 132 telematics votes, 197.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u197	Accordingly, the non-legislative proposal is rejected. - THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, RATIFICATION OF CONVENTION 190 ON VIOLENCE AND ASSISTANCE IN THE WORK OF THE INTERNATIONAL ORGANIZATION OF WORK. [[File number 162/000653]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u198	No legislative proposal by the Socialist Parliamentary Group on the ratification of the 190 Convention on Violence and Harassment at Work of the International Labour Organization. It shall be put to the vote on its terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: 104 votes in favour, 245 votes in favour, 349 in favour, 103 votes in favour, 193 votes in favour, 296 abstentions, 1 vote in favour, 52 votes in favour, 53.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u199	Accordingly, the non-legislative proposal was approved.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u200	Motions resulting from urgent appeals. Motion following urgent inquiry by the Parliamentary Group Citizens on the regulatory plan of the Government of Spain on animal welfare. The vote was taken on the compromise amendment tabled by the Socialist Parliamentary Group, the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, the Plural Parliamentary Group and the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. [[Mr. Rego Candamil]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: 104 plus 245 telematics votes, 349; in favour, 104 plus 177 telematics votes, 281; against, 52 telematics votes; abstentions, 16 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u201	Accordingly, the motion as a result of urgent inquiry was approved. - the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress, so that the Government would explain the tax measures handed over to Brussels on 30 April. [[SUBJECTS OF TAXES AND/OR RECORDS]] [[File number 173/000073]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u202	Motion for an urgent appeal by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress to the Government to explain the tax measures sent to Brussels on 30 April. [[tax increases and/or cuts]] It shall be put to the vote on its terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 104 plus 245 telematics votes, 349; in favour, 39 plus 116 telematics votes, 155; against, 65 plus 110 telematics votes, 175; abstentions, 19 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u203	Consequently, the motion resulting from urgent inquiry is rejected. - OF THE VOX PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, ON THE MEASURES THE GOVERNMENT IS GOING TO TAKE TO RETURN THE CREDITITY OF THE MINISTRY OF THE INTERIOR. [[File number 173/000074]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u204	Motion following urgent inquiry by the VOX Parliamentary Group on the steps that the Government will take to restore the credibility of the Ministry of the Interior. It shall be put to the vote on its terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 104 plus 245 telematics votes, 349; in favour, 40 plus 113 telematics votes, 153; against, 64 plus 131 telematics votes, 195; abstention, 1 telematics vote.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u205	Consequently, the motion resulting from urgent inquiry is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u206	Draft Organic Law on Comprehensive Protection of Children and Adolescents from Violence. The whole text was voted on because it was of the same organic nature. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: 104 plus 245 telematics votes, 349; 104 plus 193 telematics votes, 297; against 52 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u207	Accordingly, the text was adopted as it stood. [[Prolonged applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u208	Draft organic law for the protection of personal data processed for the prevention, detection, investigation and prosecution of criminal offences and for the enforcement of criminal sanctions. The whole text was voted on because it was of the same organic nature. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 104 plus 245 telematics votes, 349; in favour, 104 plus 173 telematics votes, 277; against, 5 telematics votes; abstentions, 67 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u209	Accordingly, the text was adopted as it stood.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u210	Validation or repeal of royal decree-laws. Royal Decree-Law 8/2021 of 4 May, adopting urgent measures in the health, social and jurisdictional order, to be applied after the expiry of the state of alarm declared by Royal Decree 926/2020 of 25 October, declaring the state of alarm to contain the spread of infections caused by SARS-CoV-2. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 104 plus 245 telematics votes, 349; in favour, 65 plus 124 telematics votes, 189; against, 39 plus 61 telematics votes, 100; abstentions, 60 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u211	Therefore, the Royal Decree-Law is validated. The processing of this royal decree-law has been requested as a bill by the urgency procedure, so we proceed to vote on that request. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: 104 votes in favour, 245 votes in favour, 349 votes in favour, 104 votes in favour, 241 votes in favour, 345 abstentions, 4 votes in favour.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u212	It is therefore dealt with as a draft law by the urgency procedure.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u213	Opinions of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on international conventions. Declaration of acceptance by Spain of the accession of the Republic of Nicaragua to the Convention on the Collection of Evidence in Civil or Commercial Matters, done at The Hague on 18 March 1970. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: 104 plus 242 telematics votes, 346; 104 plus 201 telematics votes, 305; 1 telematics vote, abstentions, 40 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u214	The opinion was therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u215	Discussions on all legislative initiatives. Vote on the amendment to the entire alternative text to the proposed organic law reforming the Constitutional Court's Organic Law 2/1979 of 3 October 1979, submitted by the VOX Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 104 plus 245 telematics votes, 349; 53 telematics votes, 104 plus 182 telematics votes, 286; abstentions, 10 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u216	The amendment to the entire alternative text is therefore rejected. Vote on the amendment to the entire alternative text to the proposed organic law reforming the Constitutional Court's Organic Law 2/1979 of 3 October 1979, presented by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 104 plus 243 telematics votes, 347; in favour, 39 plus 111 telematics votes, 150; against, 65 plus 129 telematics votes, 194; abstentions, 3 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u217	The amendment to the entire alternative text is therefore rejected. - DRAFT AGENCY LAW FOR THE IMPLEMENTATION OF COUNCIL REGULATION 2017/1939 OF 12 OCTOBER 2017 ESTABLISHING ENFORCEMENTED COOPERATION FOR THE ESTABLISHMENT OF THE EUROPEAN TAXATION. [[File number 121/000053]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u218	Vote on the amendment to the entire alternative text to the draft organic law implementing Council Regulation 2017/1939 of 12 October 2017 establishing enhanced cooperation for the creation of the European Public Prosecutor's Office, presented by the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 104 plus 245 telematics votes, 349; in favour, 39 plus 60 telematics votes, 99; against, 65 plus 184 telematics votes, 249; abstentions, 1 telematics vote.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u219	The amendment to the entire alternative text is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u220	Proposals for the establishment of subcommittees. Proposal from the Commission on Social Rights and Comprehensive Disability Policies for the creation of a subcommission for the study of a state pact against anti-Gypsyism and the inclusion of the Gypsy people. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: 104 votes in favour, 245 votes in favour, 349 votes in favour, 104 votes in favour, 245 votes in favour, 349 votes in favour, 349 votes in favour and 349 votes in favour.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u221	The proposal was therefore unanimously adopted. [[Applauds]] A number of parliamentary groups have asked for an explanation of vote on the proposal to set up this subcommission. For a period of three minutes, from the seat, by the Citizen Parliamentary Group, Mrs Giménez Giménez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u222	Good afternoon to all, comrades and companions. I would like to say to you that it is heartening that we approve this subcommittee, which is an advance in the recognition, history and rights of the Gypsy people, of my people, of whom I am proud, of which I believe I stand for what I can do, day by day, with my work, with my parliamentary group and with the rest of the parliamentary groups. And I believe that this subcommittee addresses two relevant horizons: that anti-Gyptanism which I hate, which today has been seen at European level by a person from the far right who made a series of discriminatory comments - anti-Gyptanisms - from the Bulgarian Government. We've got to get this over with! To end because it prevents the inclusion of the Gypsy people, for which we are going to work in this subcommission analyzing that strategy of social inclusion of the Gypsy people that has important challenges: challenges in education, challenges in housing, challenges in access to and exercise of social rights and in combating that discriminatory treatment that I regret that continues to be present in our society. What am I proud of? That it's unanimous. Today I think it is a historic fact: we are unanimously approving a subcommittee with three Roma people in this House, of which I am also proud, defending and giving voice to the Roma people. [[Applauds]] I thank you all and all the work we do, I thank you for the support, because in the end what we are going to do is to build a better society, a society in which diversity enriches us, a society to which we are a party. You have to know our history, our culture, our contributions, what we want to contribute to, and I think the best way is to analyze it in this subcommittee with the voice of experts, of people who will come to share their experience and their proposals, and to elevate it to our parliamentary work. He ended up wishing you a happy day today. For me he is happy because we have made progress in the exercise of many rights: in childhood, in the field of disability and we have ended my people; with this, for me it is a really day of celebration. I wish you all and all a great deal of health and freedom. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u223	Thank you very much, Mrs Giménez. For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Carvalho Dantas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u224	Thank you very much, Madam President. After the words of Sara Giménez it is very difficult to continue. I'm particularly not a gypsy, I'm a very allied beach. We in the Republican Group believe that we must confront structural racism and the marginalization of a forgotten and forgotten people who have been the victims of a genocidal historical and continuing persecution. For this reason, and after almost 600 years, today, in the Congress of Deputies, we have unanimously created this subcommission for the study of a state pact against anti-Gypsyism and the inclusion of the Gypsy people. It is essential and urgent for this house to ask the Gypsy people for forgiveness. It is essential that it pays tribute and tribute to all its victims, that it analyse the public policies implemented within the framework of the national strategy for the social inclusion of the Roma population, that it addresses the different dimensions of anti-Gypsyism as a specific form of racism, that it legislates to put an end to it, that it listens to the Roma people, that it commits itself to work for the implementation of inclusive, effective and determined policies with the aim of achieving equal opportunities for all people of the Gypsy people, the recognition of their memory, the reparation of the damage, the maintenance of their cultural and identity signs and how many reforms are deemed necessary, including that of the Constitution, to listen to and make visible the Gypsy people in social, economic and political institutions. And finally, it is necessary for this House to propose the preparation of a report with diagnosis, proposals and conclusions. Stop, Roma! [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u225	Thank you, Mrs. Carvalho. Mr Cortés Gómez has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in common.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u226	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. It is a reason for pride that the creation of a subcommission for a state pact against anti-Egyptism is brought to this House. We are at the forefront in Europe today in this area. Ladies and gentlemen, the people and people who have no memory, no identity, and the Roma people must remember their existence so that Spain and Europe never forget the history of an invisible people. Today I would like to report on this history of persecution and resistance in this House, which is the seat of popular sovereignty, in the face of the petrified gaze of the Catholic Kings, who initiated three hundred anti-Gypsy measures - disappearing the last measure in 1978 - against the language and the free movement of gypsy people. Today I would like to remind all the gypsy women who were accused of witchcraft and condemned to the bonfire by the Holy Inquisition. Today I would like to remind all the Gypsy men condemned to jails, turned into the human engines of the Spanish naval empire and those sentenced to forced labour in the mines of Almadén and La Carraca. Today I would like to remind all the gypsy women who, along with their sons and daughters, were forcibly imprisoned in the houses of mercy in the custody of the nuns. Today I would like to remind the men and women, the elderly, the boys and girls who survived the first attempt at extermination, the first attempt at genocide in modern Europe, known as the Great Redada, conceived by Bishop Vázquez Tablada and planned by the Marquis de la Ensenada. Today I want to remind Helios Gómez, the artist of the red tie, trade unionist and antifascist gypsy, of the model prison of President Lluís Companys during the October Revolution. Today I would like to remind Mariano Rodríguez Vázquez, a trade unionist gypsy and national leader of the CNT in Catalonia during the Second Republic. Today I would like to recall the evangelical pastor and writer Mateo Maximoff, born in Barcelona and interned in the French concentration camps during the Nazi occupation. Today I want to remind all the gypsy men and women who had to endure - among them my grandfather and my grandmother - while sleeping on roads and paths, the kick of the guards of the Franco regime in the pans where they prepared food for their families. [[Applauds]] Today I would like to ask the monarchical institution to apologize to the Gypsy people for the suffering that this dynasty has caused for centuries to my people. Today I would like to ask the high ecclesiastical authorities of this country to ask the gypsy people for forgiveness for centuries of slander, false accusations and heartless condemnations. For centuries the Gypsy people have resisted the abuses of power. Today is the time to move forward in respect for our right to exist as a people, as a free people, as a people more in this country of countries, nation of nations, people of peoples. Health and freedom, ladies and gentlemen. Stop, Roma! [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u227	Thank you, Mr. Cortés. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mrs García Rodríguez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u228	This initiative arises from the need to continue working and deepening to eradicate the prejudices and stereotypes that still persist in our society. We have seen over these years that we have made progress, for example, with the national strategy adopted in 2012, which focused on such important issues as education, employment, housing and the health of Roma people. As a result of the pandemic it is also necessary to continue to deepen in other aspects, such as social action, the participation of the Roma community, a greater knowledge of their history and culture - as Castilla and León did by incorporating in their school curriculum precisely the history and culture of the Roma community -, non-discrimination, formation and culture, without forgetting the Roma population coming from other countries. By contextualizing, I give some data. In the field of housing, chabolism has been reduced during these years to 2%, but we must continue to work. In addition, there is a need to continue to improve infra-housing. On employment issues, the unemployment rate is 50%, and if we talk about women it is 60%. In the field of education, only 17% of the Roma population over the age of sixteen have completed ESO and higher education. These data show that we have to continue to deepen and this subcommittee is an opportunity. That is why the People's Party will say yes to this subcommission, which must follow a participatory process, not only in this House, but also involve all ministries, the autonomous communities, the municipalities, the parliaments and especially those who must play an essential role in this subcommission, which are precisely the entities that make up the State Council of the Gypsy People. We will listen to the social entities that work every day and that will set us a number of priorities to achieve equal treatment and also full intercultural coexistence. When we talk to the professionals - the real ones involved, those who are working day by day with the gypsy people - we are told that it is necessary to continue to bet on the neighborhoods. We have to get to the gypsies where the gypsies live. From this subcommission it has to arise precisely that, concrete actions that reach our neighborhoods and also that our Gypsies and Gypsies who live in each of the Spanish municipalities can tell us what they need. Ladies and gentlemen, in order to achieve these objectives, there must be funding to promote these measures so that they can be effective throughout the Spanish territory. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u229	Thank you very much, Mrs. García. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Carrillo de los Reyes has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u230	Thank you very much, Madam President. Many very important things have been said here. One thing I want to highlight is that the Gypsy people have almost 600 years of history marked by more than 250 anti-Gypsy laws in the Spanish legal system, with the sole aim of ending our culture and our life. Until democracy arrived gypsies and gypsies were not free. Ladies and gentlemen, with this initiative we presented at the plenary session of the Congress, we began to write with golden letters the new history of the Gypsy people in our country. Our democracy has a historic debt to the Gypsy people, and with the launch of this subcommission we take a decisive step in the right direction to facilitate the full exercise of the citizenship rights of the most important minority in this country. I was wise to say that gratitude is the memory of the heart, and I want to thank, first of all, all my colleagues in the Socialist Parliamentary Group for demonstrating once again that sensitivity for the people who need it most. [[Applauds]] But at the same time I would like to acknowledge all the democratic forces in this House for supporting us, for continuing to fight, together with us and ourselves, to place the Roma people in the place of honour which they deserve and which belongs to them. Thank you very much, especially to my fellow gypsy Member, Mr Cortés and Mrs Giménez. He said that the Socialist Parliamentary Group is not the first time it has brought such important initiatives to this House. The last has been the Equal Treatment and Non-Discrimination Act, a powerful instrument that makes a public sentence against anti-Gyptanism. We also have laws such as the education law, which it recognizes, and also includes in the school curriculum, history and gypsy culture. The future democratic law, which also creates a special section for the memory of Gypsies and Gypsies who suffered the ideologies of the most atrocious totalitarianism. I would also like to recall the words that some of your ladies and gentlemen defended the other day in the Committee on Social Rights, the ladies and gentlemen of VOX who are not here. I want to tell you that anti-Egyptism is not the fruit of the warm minds of the left, it is precisely the fruit of twisted minds nesting in the bowels of the fascist far right. Don't forget them. [[Applauds]] The discrimination suffered by the Gypsy people exists and is palpable, unfortunately, and has harmful consequences in our lives, preventing us from getting to housing, education and health. Enough with all this hate, ladies and gentlemen! That's enough! Let us not allow the hatred that this House is going through to reach the streets and soak up hatred of our citizens. That's enough! [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-20-CD210520.u231	Thank you very much, Mrs. Carrillo. Your time's up. Very good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The meeting rose. It was five and twenty-five minutes in the afternoon.
