ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-20-CD211020.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. The meeting was resumed. Take your seats, please. We continue with the questions addressed to the Government, in accordance with the agenda referred by the Government. Questions to the President of the Government. Question by Mr Pablo Casado Blanco, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-20-CD211020.u2	He says he doesn't leave anyone behind, but he's not leaving anyone standing. It raises the quota of self-employed by 20%, the fuels by 30%, the light by 300%, and now it says it will put tolls on the roads. By the way, can you confirm if that's true here? He also leaves behind his promise to comply with the Constitution, and now he wants to reform it to content the separatists. With the one that's falling in Spain, do you think we're going to referendums? Yale says that we will not allow it, because the Constitution is not the problem, it is the solution, and we do not have to reform it, it is enough to comply with it. If you stand on the side of those who attack you instead of those who obey you, you fall for a moderate social democrat who no longer believes anyone. Because this weekend, too, has left behind its coherence. After three years of government, all it has to offer for the future of Spain is to repeal the labor reform that it has used for the ERTE, to repeal the Law on Citizen Security that it has used to expel thousands of immigrants and to abolish prostitution. But, truly, Mr Sánchez, do you think we are here to talk about prostitution?, with the subsidies of the Andalusian PSOE spent on brothels?, with the scandals covered up by the minor guardianships of Balearics and Valencia? And with all this, you tell us if you still keep saying you don't leave anyone behind. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-20-CD211020.u3	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-20-CD211020.u4	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you again for your always constructive contribution to the parliamentary debate. I would like to tell you that the Spanish Government is working precisely for a fair economic recovery. I'm going to give you two data. Notice, in 2019 it was when social security membership exceeded 19.5 million workers, i.e. it took twelve years, Your Honor, twelve years since 2008 to achieve the same levels of membership that existed before the financial crisis. With the crisis of COVID we have managed to recover pre-pandemic employment levels in just a year and a half. [[Applauds]] Recognize me that this is a recovery at least more intense than the one you produced. [[Applauds]] Secondly, Mr Casado, we want it to be a fairer economic recovery, to reach everyone, I have said this on many occasions. If the pandemic has affected everyone, it must reach all layers of society and all territories, and in that sense I believe that it is also an achievement of this Government, and therefore of this democracy, that we have been able to consolidate a pillar - minimum living income - that is benefiting eight hundred thousand people today, eight hundred thousand compatriots, including more than three hundred and fifty thousand children, to curb and reduce one of the most devastating poverty, which is child poverty. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-20-CD211020.u5	Mr. Married.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-20-CD211020.u6	With Bildu we will not agree, if you want to say so five or twenty times, that question offends. Bildu doesn't remember anything. You said this in campaign, Mr. Sanchez. Why did you cheat on us? You have also left behind the victims of terrorism as you approach a hundred stories of blood felonies. One cannot compromise and whitewash to keep in power those who justify the murder of eight hundred and fifty innocents. As Múgica said: it is better to lose vows than to lose your soul. ETA was defeated by police forces and the judiciary, not by Zapatero's transfers to Otegi. And Otegi is not a man of peace, he is a terrorist who kidnapped our colleague Javier Rupérez and tried to assassinate our colleague and rapporteur of the Constitution Gabriel Cisneros. Are you going to get two hundred terrorists out of jail to support his budgets, as Otegi said yesterday? Answer, yes or no? And you defend what they said about Mr Felipe González yesterday? [[Applauds]] Answer, yes or no? Tell that to Mrs Mertxe Aizpurua, who has been convicted of the rise of terrorism. What their partners have to do is condemn ETA, end the tributes to criminals and collaborate with justice to clarify three hundred murders. And what you have to do is break with Bildu today, to them we owe nothing; to the victims of terrorism we owe everything: memory, dignity, truth and justice. [[Several Members: Very well!-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-20-CD211020.u7	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-20-CD211020.u8	Thank you, Madam President. Your Honor, answering your question: it is a non-rotundo, a non-rotundo. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] Look, we have never, ever used terrorism when ETA existed and we will never use terrorism now that ETA does not exist, ten years after the end of violence. [[Applauds]] I will tell you one thing, Your Honor, we are celebrating the tenth anniversary of the end of violence and, as you have said, it is a success and a victory of Spanish democracy. It is true that there was then a socialist president, Zapatero; a socialist lehendakari, Patxi López, and a minister of the Interior, Alfredo Pérez Rubalcaba. [[Applauds]] But it is a success of all, also of you, and therefore, Your Honor, I do not understand how the right-wing does not feel this as a victory, and they always convey a bitter vision of one of the great achievements of Spanish democracy as is the end forever of terrorism etarra. In any case, I will tell you that simply the fact that you pose me full of pain because, Your Honor, you know perfectly well how the social and democratic rule of law works in Spain, and what exists is the rule of law. [[One honourable Member: Yes, sir.-Applause.]] - OF THE DEVELOPED SANTIAGO ABASCAL CONDE, OF THE VOX PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT: WHAT MEASURES DOES THE GOVERNMENT THINK TO TAKE TO RETURN SAFETY TO THE BARRIES AND CITIES OF SPAIN? [[File number 180/00681]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-20-CD211020.u9	Question by Mr Santiago Abascal Conde, Member of the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-20-CD211020.u10	Mr. Sanchez, there can be no safe neighborhoods or streets if there are no safe borders. Do you know what has happened in Spain in the last few weeks? Do you know that some of the jihadists arrested in Barcelona, who intended to attack in our country, had illegally entered the fold? Do you know that a civilian guard just scratched the face of an illegal immigrant with a fork on the border of Melilla? Do you know that a national police officer has been kicked and sent to the hospital in Zaragoza, without even daring to defend himself in case you organized a media trial? Do you know there's been a jihadist attack in Murcia, Mr. Sánchez? Because you haven't talked about it. Do you know that the terrorist, that the killer was an exam? Do you know, Mr Sánchez, that there are groups of MENA organized by going to youth leisure areas - where your children will also be - with extreme violence, with mugging, with stabbing and sexual assault? Do you know what happens when the media focus moves away from these cases? That the aggressors, that the criminals - if they have been arrested - are already on the street; that the criminals are already committing crimes again. It is probably the same thing that will happen to Zaragoza's assailant if he is finally arrested, because we already know that here those who kick the cops are rewarded. [[Applauds]] And you know who's responsible for what's going on? Well, look, Mr Sánchez, the culprits are the ones who call Spain, the culprits are the ones who pay for the help that does not reach the Spaniards, the culprits are the ones who make the laws of impunity, the culprits are the ones who leave the defenseless police in Spain. The culprits sit on this blue bench next to you and flank you in all these seats. Because you have become Hamelin's flute player, who summons illegal immigration, who calls you Spain, who imports crime and who generates insecurity in our neighbourhoods. According to data from the Bubble Government, 31 000 have arrived only last year; there will be many more, and with their policies they will come even more. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-20-CD211020.u11	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-20-CD211020.u12	Thank you very much, Madam President. Your Honor, I don't know if churning, breaking, dividing, confronting, hating is for you patriotism. I wish it was half the patriot of what he claims from the rest of his lordships, but let's go to official data, Your Honor. [[applause]] These data are that in the first quarter of 2021 the overall crime rate is the lowest in the historical series, and that is precisely because this government is betting on the security of the Spanish and Spanish, on public security. That said the then government delegate that security for those who pay for it, look at it on the right-hand bench and not at this bench, which bets on public security. [[Applauds]] In 2021 the thefts have been reduced by 38.3%, the thefts with force at home by 32.8% and the theft of vehicles by 30.5%, compared, logically, with 2019, not with 2020, as a result of the pandemic, as we all know. Does this mean there's zero risk? No, no, That we take care of the safety and serenity of our compatriots? Yeah. And this has much to do, Your Honor, with what the Government has done over the past three years. I will simply give you some figures, because this is the result, this fall to historically low levels of the crime rate. It has much to do, for example, with the increase in the number of police and civilian guards by 10,000. For you to make an idea, since we arrived at the Government, they are practically the same ones that were lost when governing the right, which precisely froze the replacement rates. That is to say, in just three years' time the Social Democratic Government, Your Honor, has done almost what the right-wing has destroyed in seven years' time. [[Rumors]] I will also tell you that this Government has not only increased resources, but has also provided greater wage dignity for the State Security Forces and Corpses. Last year the average wage increased by 20% for police and civilian guards. And this Government is also facilitating labour dignity for the State Security Forces and Corpses. It approved a Infrastructure Plan 2019-2024, equipped with six hundred million euros over seven years for the reform and construction of police stations and barracks. There's the data and here's the facts, Your Honor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-20-CD211020.u13	Mr. Abascal.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-20-CD211020.u14	Mr Sánchez, I no longer expect you to do anything good as President of the Government. I do not ask you, as President of the Government, to put yourself on the skin of the Spanish who suffer from insecurity; I ask you, as a father who is you, to put yourself on the skin of those parents who will have to receive your son in their homes with a knife in the neck or your daughter raped by those whom you call and those whom you keep. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-20-CD211020.u15	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-20-CD211020.u16	That's what I'm asking you to speak as a father. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPUTY DON TOMÁS GITARTE GIMENO, OF THE JOINT PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHICH FORMS TO THE PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT: HOW DOES THE DRAFT GENERAL BUDGETS OF THE STATE FOR 2022 COMPLETE WITH THE POINTS OF THE INVESTIGATION AGREEMENT BETWEEN PSOE AND TERUEL EXIST? [[File number 180/00676]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-20-CD211020.u17	Question by Mr Tomás Guitarte Gimeno, Member of the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-20-CD211020.u18	Mr President, in January 2020 we signed an agreement facilitating the formation of the government. We have done so since the conviction that forming a Government was an unalterable necessity for the whole of a country with two general elections in six months, and for us empty Spain was urgent in the face of the State's delay in listening to its needs and responding to its demands. At this time we have opted for consensus and agreement. We bet on a critical and constructive position, with proposals in Parliament and in every meeting with the ministries. Honestly, it can be said that we have fulfilled it loosely. However, we would also like to be able to say that you have done the same, without detracting necessary investments. In order to fulfil its part of the agreement we need greater political will, to overcome statements and to move to budgets, with sufficient amounts for each project, meeting the deadlines and a subsequent efficient implementation of all the items. Mr President, to what extent does the draft State General Budgets for 2022 comply with the points of the investment agreement signed between PSOE and Teruel?
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-20-CD211020.u19	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-20-CD211020.u20	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that both the budgets of 2021 and 2022 and the orientation that the Spanish Government is giving to the issue of the demographic challenge are very strong, very strong. Note that sometimes I take the criticisms of some president - in this case, of an autonomous community - for making a determined and firm bet on decentralization. [[Applauds]] We are doing so precisely with the location of new headquarters of different institutions in Soria, León, Ponferrada, revitalizing the Ciuden Project, which precisely the right, when it ruled, abandoned. What do I mean by that? Let us take a look not only at social cohesion, but also at territorial cohesion, at each and every one of the political projects we implement. The European funds, for example, have this condition of this prospect of territorial cohesion so that, precisely, this reindustrialization and, therefore, creation of opportunities, be in all territories and not only concentrate on some. In this respect, I would like to say that, of course, the General State Budgets for 2022, which are going to be processed - let us hope - during the coming weeks and months in this Parliament, have figures such as - for example, I just quote one - EUR 4200 million for Plan 130 measures against the demographic challenge, which we adopted at the last Conference of Presidents in the city of Salamanca. With this, all I can tell you is that this government firmly believes and has a strong stake in the demographic challenge and territorial cohesion. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-20-CD211020.u21	Mr. Guitarte.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-20-CD211020.u22	Mr President, despite these figures - the 4200 million are, but it is really questionable that they can all be allocated to the demographic challenge - we have found very interesting aspects, such as, for example, the operating aid for companies which appear in an additional provision. But now that requires development, enthusiasm, economic endowment, that illuminates a hopeful horizon for so many provinces as Soria, Teruel, Cuenca and all unpopulated areas. In the technical aspects of infrastructure, we have been stressing that the problem of Teruel province, for example, lies in its isolation and its remoteness from all communication axes. Under technical or environmental pretexts that are not truly impediments, the study on the A-40, for example, does not go as far as it should, while dissolving its objective of plotting a highway that respects the environment to become a mere national road. You have to increase the departures of the master plan of the railway line Valencia-Teruel-Zaragoza so that you can go faster. Despite the budget allocation, for example, the A-25 motorway between Alcolea and Monreal del Campo has not just been tendered, as is the case with the A-24 between Calatayud and Campo Romanos. A decisive step must be taken to A-68, where items were announced that are now unwarrantedly prolonged and the deadlines extended. Likewise, the cantabrian-mediterranean corridor is awaiting approval of the informational studies of the Teruel-Zaragoza and Teruel-Valencia sections. If these points are not remedied through amendments, we will not be able to say that...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-20-CD211020.u23	Thank you very much, Mr. Guitarte. Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-20-CD211020.u24	Thank you, Madam President. Your Honor, I really appreciate your tone. I simply have to say that we are certainly going to listen carefully to your amendments, that the Budget Act contains an additional last provision whereby the Government undertakes to establish - and I quote textually - 'the ways to make maximum use of the existing aid possibilities for areas with a very low population density, in particular those with a population density of less than 12.5 inhabitants'. I close quotes. I believe that this is what we need to develop and to which you have referred earlier. And, thirdly - very quickly - different items of investment and transfer - 73,75 million euros in investments in the province of Teruel, 30 million euros for investment projects in the province of Teruel - are contemplated.And, as soon as the process of public hearing is completed and we have the mandatory reports - as you know - will be launched the contest of concession of capacity of access to the knot of Andorra, that will allow the installation of a new generation of renewable electricity that drives the economic and social recovery of the area, after the closure of the thermal power plant. It will be the first just transition agreement to be developed in the province of Teruel. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEVELOPED GAMARRA RUIZ-CLAVIJO DESIGN OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, which FORMULATES THE VICE-President OF THE AND MINISTER OF ECONOMIC AFFAIRS AND DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION: HOW CREDIBLE IS THE ECONOMIC POLICY OF THE GOVERNMENT? [[File number 180/00684]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-20-CD211020.u25	Questions to the first Vice-President of the Government and Minister for Economic Affairs and Digital Transformation. Question by Mrs Concepción Gamarra Ruiz-Clavijo of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-20-CD211020.u26	Thank you, President. Madam Vice-President, after the INE, CaixaBank, the IMF, the General Council of Economists, BBVA also joins in cutting its estimates, making it clear that the General Budgets of the State are based on forecasts that no one else supports anymore. You have been absolutely alone, but it is also that the Governor of the Banco de España has thrown a jar of cold water at your optimism when he said that the economic crisis is far from over. And if we move from forecast to reform, exactly the same. After you say again and again that you will not repeal the labour reform of the People's Party and commit yourself to it with Brussels, Sánchez arrives and by surprise at the socialist congress announces it. Long live certainty and legal certainty! How we've changed, Mrs. Calviño. Look, you came as the guardian of rigour and budgetary seriousness, of orthodoxy, and right now your accounts are based on pure politics-fiction, it's all a lie. Mrs Calviño, what degree of credibility does your government's economic policy have? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-20-CD211020.u27	Madam First Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-20-CD211020.u28	Thank you, President. Thank you, Mrs. Gamarra. Look, week after week I explain here clearly - I think - that this is a government that has credibility because it says what it does and, above all, it does what it says. [[rumors]] [[Applauds]] We have been implementing a responsible and coherent economic policy for three and a half years, based on social responsibility, fiscal responsibility and structural reforms, looking to the future, balanced structural reforms that allow us to have more sustained and sustainable economic growth over time. There are many examples of this economic policy. Focusing simply on the response to the pandemic, we see that the exit from this crisis is very different from the previous financial crisis. We have managed to avoid a fall in GDP of more than 25%, we have managed to avoid the destruction of three million jobs, but above all we have avoided the enormous pain that would result from an economic policy like that which was followed in the past, because we want a strong recovery, but above all a fair recovery, and this responsible and coherent action is the one that gives credibility, Mrs Gamarra. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-20-CD211020.u29	Mrs. Gamarra.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-20-CD211020.u30	Madam Vice-President, let's get to the point. What do you have to say to the workers and of course to the workers of Arcelor, Sidenor, Fertiberia, FerroAtlántica or Asturiana de Zinc in the face of the suspension of production for the price of energy in Spain? Are you going to tell them about fair recovery? Is this fair to them? Or do we ask Mrs Díaz, who is really marking economic policy in this country? What is the basis for saying that next year's growth will be 7%? On what basis is it based to say that the collection will be above two hundred and thirty billion euros? In more taxes, in more tolls - which you have not yet answered - or in the 230 prisoners that Otegi asks to approach, and with that the budgets are approved? Yes or no? What are you guys counting on to say that the barrel of oil is going to be around $60, when almost all the forecasts speak of 80? Madam Vice President, you took off your face this weekend at the Sanchista Congress. To be honest, tell us, if you went back to the Brussels budgetary office, would you endorse this economic policy marked by the radicalism of Podemos? Not at all? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-20-CD211020.u31	Madam First Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-20-CD211020.u32	Just two points of reply, Mrs Gamarra. Firstly, the economic policy of this government is perfectly aligned with European priorities and agendas. We have a fiscally, economically and socially responsible approach, which is endorsed by international bodies. I give you two examples: one, fiscal responsibility. Our General State Budgets already foresee that we will start to reduce the government debt deficit on GDP. Frankly, coming from the People's Party, I find it incredible that you question the credibility, seriousness and fiscal responsibility of this government; you, who did not take advantage of economic growth to reduce public debt over GDP. [[rumors]] Second example: this is a government that believes in dialogue, because the structural reforms that persist over time and that are truly effective are based on dialogue, on social agreement. That is why, since the first day, we have been committed to reaching an agreement with the social partners, who are, by the way, showing greater responsibility than the public representatives. I hope that sooner or later you will understand that this is the future of Spain, that this is the agenda that will truly allow us a strong, sustained and sustainable recovery in time, and above all a fair recovery, which is what the Spanish citizens want and expect. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEVELOPED DON IVAN SPINOSIS OF THE SIMON MONTERS, OF THE VOX PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHICH FORMS THE SEMINAR FIRST AND MINISTER OF ECONOMIC AFFAIRS AND DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION: DOES THE VICE-PRESSENT CONSIDER THE FIRST THAT THE GOVERNMENT'S ECONOMIC POLICY DEFENDS DEMOCRACY? [[File number 180/00682]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-20-CD211020.u33	Question by Mr Iván Espinosa de los Monteros de Simon, Member of the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-20-CD211020.u34	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Vice-President, last week I was quoting the bad image that Spain is having in the United States, and this week it has been Europe. Nineteen presidents of large European companies have turned to leaders, from Angela Merkel to Emmanuel Macron, to set Spain as an example not to be followed, Madam Vice President, by the great legal insecurity generated by this government and which generates them Spain; a legal insecurity that generates lack of confidence of investors and puts the recovery at risk. Perhaps that is why foreign investment in Spain fell by 45% in the first half of this year compared to pre-crisis levels. Minister, one of the most important raw materials of what is now called economic diplomacy is respect for private property. And I don't say that, I read that in a thesis signed - he didn't write - by a Dr. Sanchez. [[Laughter]] And it is that without private property there is no freedom and without freedom there is no democracy. Do you believe that this government's policy defends democracy?
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-20-CD211020.u35	Madam First Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-20-CD211020.u36	Thank you very much for your questions, Mr Espinosa de los Monteros, which allows me to tell you two things. First, that our Government's economic policy is deeply rooted in democracy, constitutional values and principles, beginning with equality; equality of all Spaniards, men and women before the law. As you know very well, equality is not just a matter of taking ex post action, it is about providing equal opportunities. And that requires that we do the policy we are developing to provide the Spaniards with decent housing, decent work, educational opportunities, good public services and, ultimately, a perspective for them to develop their lives. But these constitutional values also correspond to European values. This brings me to my second point, and it is my surprise that you are talking about this government's economic policy generating mistrust or questions at European level, because we have a vision fully aligned with European priorities and policies. What's yours? Are those countries which, precisely in these days, are facing the values that have guided European construction and which underlie our Constitution? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-20-CD211020.u37	Señor Espinosa de los Monteros.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-20-CD211020.u38	Your Honor, many congratulations, you have discovered the equality of the Spaniards before the law, article 14, with only forty-three years of delay - to be a social-communist government is not bad - and you have discovered Europe with only thirty-five years of delay. Many congratulations to this non-social-democratic government, as you mean now, but social-communist. If not, ask your banker if you are a Democrat, because simultaneously you can't be both. [[Applauds]] The reality is that you make up a very undemocratic government. They came to power in a very undemocratic way and assaulted power with a lie: they will never sit with those who are sitting today and, by the way, with the support of those who a few years ago froze the blood to you. And today it is ten years - which you want to commemorate - of those who were killing all the Spaniards, and it does not embarrass them today to be here forming the less democratic government of history, with the support of the less democratic formations of history. [[Applauds]] You've been assaulting institutions one by one. They were not ashamed to assault the Attorney General's Office with the former Minister of Justice. They are not ashamed now to agree with the People's Party, which others will have to explain. They are not ashamed to agree with the People's Party to assault the Constitutional Court, perhaps because that high court has given VOX the reason for things like, for example, the closure - also very undemocratic - that you imposed on this Legislature. The Executive controls the Judiciary, the Executive controls Congress and the Executive wants to control all institutions. Do you know what's going on? That you are a very undemocratic government. Leave as soon as possible for the good of all Spaniards. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-20-CD211020.u39	Madam First Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-20-CD211020.u40	Mr Espinosa de los Monteros, last week I asked him, and today he reiterated it, that please respect the institutions. [[Applauds]] You, who are now talking about democracy, must start by respecting an institution such as the Government of the Nation, which has been supported and voted for by the Spanish citizens and by this House. [[Rumors]] You have to start being a little more aware of the importance you have as public representatives for all citizens to understand how important it is to respect institutions, if we truly believe in democratic values. Secondly, I would also urge you to stop using, like the members of the People's Party, something as painful and harsh as terrorism has been and to begin to be aware of the great victory that we are celebrating today of democracy over terrorism in our country. [[Applauds]] It is a victory of the Spanish people, it is a victory of all of us, it is a victory of our institutions of which we have to be as proud as we are of other elements that have marked the evolution of our country in the last year, such as the success of vaccination campaigns, economic policy, which leaves no one behind, or the leadership of Spain in the great European debates. Finally, Mr Espinosa de los Monteros, a little awareness of these constitutional principles. I have talked about equality; I would like to talk about another fundamental principle, which is freedom, the freedom to develop each one's vision of the world, his vision of his life and, above all, the freedom that allows you to express yourself... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-20-CD211020.u41	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President. - OF THE DEPUTY THEODOR GARCIA EGEA, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHO FORMULATES THE SECOND AND MINISTER OF WORK AND SOCIAL ECONOMY TO THE SECOND SECOND CHAIRPERSON: HOW MANY SPANISH ARE THERE STOPED BY THE UNCONTROLLED SUBJECT OF LIGHT? [[File number 180/00685]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-20-CD211020.u42	Question to the second Vice-President of the Government and Minister for Labour and Social Economy. Question by Mr Teodoro García Egea, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-20-CD211020.u43	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Díaz, I'd like you to give me some data today. How has the unemployment rate changed since they arrived in the Government? What is the increase in the percentage of unemployed women? What has been the evolution of unemployed young people under the age of 25? What is the increase in workers without previous employment? What is the evolution of the formalization of contracts? What is the evolution of indefinite contracts? And, above all, how many Spaniards are unemployed for the uncontrolled rise of the bill of light? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-20-CD211020.u44	Madam Second Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-20-CD211020.u45	Mr. García Aegean, for a moment you regained faith in the dialectic exchanges in the control sessions between you and me. The issue he raises is very worrying, and indeed the price of electricity in industry is affecting our economy and our businesses. Then I'll give you the unemployment data. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-20-CD211020.u46	Mr. García Aegean.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-20-CD211020.u47	Thank you, President. You know that in your party things are going to kick; and then you have to protect people who kick cops. The truth is that you are a bluff, because you don't even know your own data; I just asked you about some and you haven't answered. But I'll give you another one. You are the Minister of Employment, not the historian: then, let us dedicate ourselves to talking about the data that you have produced as the minister; it is very good that you know the data of the past, but you have to be responsible. Look, there are more unemployed than when you arrived, 3%; more unemployed women, 3.5%; younger unemployed under the age of twenty-five, 1.8% - we are the champions in Europe of youth unemployment -; workers without previous employment have been increased by more than 7.6% and 8% less contracts and 9% less indefinite contracts have been formalised this September. But you look like Sanchez, you don't answer anything. Are you going to break up, Mrs. Díaz, with Bildu? You answer, since you haven't answered your president. They say they raise taxes to the richest. And the tolls who are going to pay them, the rich or the SMEs and the self-employed? Is that the way you have to help those who need it most? You were disappointed in asking for resignation for any percentage increase in unemployment. When you were a Galician MP you said - I open quotes - 'Unemployment, Mr President, is the first problem in this country. You are ultimately responsible for governing and therefore reducing the tragedy of unemployment to bearable limits. If he can't do it - said Congresswoman Diaz - or if he doesn't know how to do it, he will fail again as president.' I say to you, Madam Vice-President: If you can't or don't know how to do it, you will have failed, you will be failing as a government. The light thing don't tell me: look to your left and tell the vice president, who's beating records in the light bill. We already know his employment strategy: the unemployed, the unemployed and those sentenced to the Ministry of Equality. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-20-CD211020.u48	Madam Second Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-20-CD211020.u49	Mr. García Aegean, I was going to tell you that the concern outlined in your question was shared. He noted that it is not right now, he has nothing to worry about what is happening in our country, and I take this opportunity to say that this Government does not share the catastrophic vision of the People's Party. As much as you say it and repeat it, Spain is not bankrupt. I'll give you the data. Today we have 3,257,802 unemployed in Spain. I do not know if you know that this is a rate, according to the EPA, of 15.26% and, according to Eurostat, of 14.1%. I don't know if you know, Mr. García Aegean, what your government's unemployment figures were: 6,278,000 unemployed... [[Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-20-CD211020.u50	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-20-CD211020.u51	... an unemployment rate of 27 % and a youth unemployment rate of 56 %. [[Applauds]] Your Honor, you tell me about the youth unemployment and I'll answer you. Fortunately - I suppose you, even if the unemployment figures are bad, are happy -, today we have ten thousand young people less unemployed than before reaching the Government of Spain; I suppose this too, Your Honor. [[Applauds]] And, Mr García Gea, I will give you the information: for seven months in a row in Spain, thanks to the hard work of this government, of the groups that support it and also of the social dialogue, we have reached more than 752,000 people outside the lists of unemployment. And as for today's data, Your Honor - if you look for it in your governments, you will certainly not find it, never in a People's Party government was there a record number of social security affiliations - more than 19.5 million. Look for you, collate the data and see how it was never so governing the PP, without suffering the crisis and pandemic that has lived the world. We have reached that figure. However, ladies and gentlemen, it would be good for you to hold your shoulder and stop doing this thing you're doing... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-20-CD211020.u52	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President. - OF MR GUILLERMO MARISCAL ANAYA, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHICH FORMS THE THIRD AND MINISTER FOR THE ECOLOGICAL TRANSITION AND DEMOGRAPHIC CHALLENGE: WILL THE PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT COMPLETE HIS PROMISES WITH REGARD TO THE PRICE AT THE END OF THE YEAR OF THE INCOME OF LIGHT? [[File number 180/00686]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-20-CD211020.u53	Question addressed to the third Vice-President of the Government and Minister for the Ecological Transition and the Demographic Challenge. Question by Mr Guillermo Mariscal Anaya, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-20-CD211020.u54	Thank you, President. Mrs. Díaz, the six million unemployed were from Zapatero; a little memory, please. Rigor, minister, rigor. [[Applauds]] All the energy policy decisions that Mrs Rivera has made have contributed to raising the energy bill in our country, 44% since September last year. The president's promise to match this year's electric bill with 2018's, a dream, a fallacy. Remember Filomena, Mrs. Rivera; he told us that he was going to raise the electric bill a few eurillos. The problem isn't just that they don't tell the truth, the problem is that they can't tell the truth anymore. Madam Vice-President, unfortunately, the Spanish will pay the highest energy bill in history by the end of the year. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-20-CD211020.u55	Madam Third Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-20-CD211020.u56	Thank you very much, President. Thank you very much, Your Honor. I didn't hear the question you were asking me. [[Applauds]] But I appreciate the opportunity to talk again about such an important issue for the Spaniards as is the electricity bill and to recover from their words their half truths, half lies or full lies. The short answer is that yes, domestic consumers at the end of the year, looking at their bill, will see that they pay exactly the same or, on average, the same, as a whole, as in 2018. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-20-CD211020.u57	Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-20-CD211020.u58	Energy bill, Madam Vice-President, not just electricity. Since the price escalation went up, what have you done with the most vulnerable? What did you present? What proposal did you make? Proposals are presented in Europe, taxes are lowered, money is withdrawn from the CO2 auction, payment is different. What have you done? Nothing, it does not even meet the necessary increase in renewable energy: in three years 6000 megawatts, two auctions. Just two auctions just, and the second more expensive than the previous one; an energy that will come into operation within three years. Improvise you measures continuously, without assessing the consequences. They get a negative result and, when they look at it, they draw up a new measure, which is even worse than the previous one. Madam Vice-President, you wanted gas to be the backup technology when there is not enough sun or wind. They now call for gas reserves from the European Union. What have you done to guarantee gas in our country? I'm telling you, nothing. There is a double risk of supply, Madam Vice-President: that of having enough gas and the price we will pay for it. The gas reserves today, due to their inaction, are eight days less than last October, and has managed to reduce to 50% the gas pipeline that has supplied us from Algeria. Mrs Ribera, if winter is very cold, it will touch everyone's life, and I hold you responsible. It is you who must ensure the supply of gas to our country for the well-being of families, employment and competitiveness of our industry. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-20-CD211020.u59	Madam Third Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-20-CD211020.u60	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal, I thought you were going to bring ideas on how to give coverage and facilities to an industry that is not enough... [[Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-20-CD211020.u61	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-20-CD211020.u62	I'm going to review some of your half-truths, half-truths, and full-truths. The first thing is that you do not know that we live in the world: this is a small detail that happens with the international fuel markets, with the European regulatory framework or with a tense relationship, to which we try to contribute in the best way, between two neighbouring countries appreciated, dear, important for Spain, such as Morocco and Algeria. [[protests]] Secondly, you lie, too, and you disagree with the various elements of the household bill, concerning those who say one thing and do the opposite; you have done so always and now do it again. They ignore the rates and the price of energy; their pressure to increase energy prices by prohibiting power plants - the most expensive - by introducing elements that enhance solar energy or by forgetting the transitory effect that natural gas could have on our bill. Moreover, they created renewable energy auctions that acted as a maximum floor price, instead of encouraging benefits for the consumer, unlike what we have done: 3000 megawatts attributed to an average of 25 euros, and, in the most complicated circumstances we have experienced in recent years, to 30 euros yesterday. They ask for something in taxation, but when we put it into practice, they vote against it. They ask for one thing at fixed charges and costs, but when we put it into practice, they vote against it. Always against it, because they never know very well what to propose or what to do more than vote against it all. [[Applauds]] If it is worrying the industry and in that we are engaged, and we would appreciate some help on your part, because there is not enough coverage for very important fixed costs in the electrointensive industry, and we continue to work with guarantees, guarantee fund, but also seeking a consensus between energy and industrial, because the important thing... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-20-CD211020.u63	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President. - THE DEVELOPED DONATOR ESTEBAN BRAVO, THE VASCO PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, FORMULATING THE MINISTER OF EXTERNAL MATTERS, EUROPEAN UNION AND COOPERATION: WHAT DO YOU THINK TO SAVE [[EAJ-PNV]] THE LIFE OF SULTANA KHAYA, IN CONsonANCE WITH THE SPIRIT OF DEFENCE OF HUMAN RIGHTS ANIMATING YOUR EXTERNAL POLICY? [[File number 180/00680]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-20-CD211020.u64	Question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, European Union and Cooperation. Question by Mr Aitor Esteban Bravo, Member of the Basque Parliamentary Group [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-20-CD211020.u65	Good morning, Minister. I ask him about human rights in a place like Western Sahara, where Spain, under international law, remains the administering power, and when Spain has submitted its candidacy for a third term as a member of the United Nations Human Rights Committee. I ask what Spain will do to save the life of Sultan Khaya, president of the Human Rights League in Bojador, and her family. He's already lost an eye on a police charge, whose creepy details I'm going to save them, and he's been under house arrest for a year, without weighing on him any specific charges, without any court order. She and her family are forbidden to enter or leave the house. Since April the electricity has been cut off, black plastics have been put in the windows so that not in the light, there are no visitors, although, that is, they have visits of undesirables, undesirables that enter and beat - also their mother, another person of eighty years - that violate - there are videos that prove it and, if you want, I can facilitate them - or that one day, like August 22, they enter with divers and distribute a substance both among their clothes and throughout the house, and, as a consequence, they catch the COVID, and they have been banned at all times throughout this year medical assistance. She and her family are sandwiched alive. What will Spain do to ensure that minimum respect, which any country should have, for human rights in Western Sahara is respected? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-20-CD211020.u66	Minister for Foreign Affairs, European Union and Cooperation, I have the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-20-CD211020.u67	Mr. Esteban.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-20-CD211020.u68	Take off the official cuffs and exercise as a politician. Intelligence does, but it's been a year. Intelligence is also demonstrated with some speed. I am very concerned, I am very concerned that the Socialist Group would have come out of its ministry to vote against Sultan's candidacy for the Sakharov Prize, and to do so in favour of Jeanine Áñez, a coup player - proposed by BOX, by the way - who also expelled number two from the Spanish Embassy of the country; I find it surprising. If we have such good relations with Morocco - and it seems very good to me - be friends or be adversaries, it is everyone's duty to fight against injustice. If they are friends, there will be more reasons to be able to approach and prevent these situations, which are truly unacceptable at all points. Or interests also for Mohamed Lamin Haddi, a person who has been missing for three months...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-20-CD211020.u69	Thank you very much, Mr. Esteban. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-20-CD211020.u70	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Human rights are a guiding principle of our foreign policy, and we defend and promote them in all countries of the world. They are completely universal, and we do not make distinctions by country, situation or person, and we do so also in multilateral forums. But the application, the progress of human rights in third countries - you come from a political group that has responsibilities of government and you know it perfectly - is a very complex matter, because being effective is to be demanding, of course, very demanding, but also to be intelligent, and intelligence in foreign policy and diplomacy requires discretion, not counting, not openly discussing certain cases. He says Spain is an administering power. Neither in the list of autonomous territories of the United Nations nor in any resolution of the Security Council is Spain, it ceased to be in 1975, and that is well known. But he has no doubt that in all our relations with all the countries of the world, both bilaterally and through the European Union in the dialogue with those countries, we make use of the defence of human rights globally and in particular cases. He was well aware of the human rights challenge. No State likes to take measures so that it can be thought that it is third parties who force it to do so or third parties who take it for them. There is no other way to be intelligent and therefore be discreet in these cases. That's the difficulty, and I'm sure you know it perfectly well. Please, Mr Esteban, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs does not dictate the position of the parliamentary groups, let alone in the European Parliament. The European Parliament and its parliamentary groups vote in accordance with what they see. And yes, good-neighbourly relations are very important. But I assure you that good-neighbourly relations never precede the defence and promotion of human rights by this Government. I also tell you that we will not come here to tell you if that is effective in particular cases. Both bilaterally and through dialogue with the European Union... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-20-CD211020.u71	Thank you very much, Minister. - OF THE DEPUTY DON JON IÑARRITU GARCIA, OF THE PARLIAMENTARY GROUP EUSKAL HERRIA BILDU, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF JUSTICE: ARE ALL CITIZENS EQUAL BEFORE THE LAW? [[File number 180/00675]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-20-CD211020.u72	Question addressed to the Minister for Justice. Question by Mr Jon Iñarritu García, Member of the Parliamentary Group Euskal Herria Bildu.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-20-CD211020.u73	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, Minister. More than a decade ago the then king, today emeritus and traveler, repeated the maxim that all Spaniards are equal before the law, and also did so without laughing, which has its merit. That is why I ask you if you believe that all citizens are equal before the law.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-20-CD211020.u74	Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-20-CD211020.u75	Thank you, President. Your Honor, the truth is that all citizens are equal before the law, at least formally, and I say formally because not all citizens are equal before the law. [[Applauds]] The truth is that I thought your question was going to denounce the most common inequality, the inequality that occurs most frequently in the world, which is discrimination against women. Women remain unequal towards men in many respects, as in participation in decision-making bodies, where we are still underrepresented in both the public and private spheres. In fact, the pandemic has lifted the veil of that apparent equality that we believed we had consolidated and the data reveal that, for example, scientific women have published far less scientific articles because they have had to devote themselves to care and household chores. Look how much talent we lost in the 21st century!And, Your Honor, we cannot tolerate that in a democratic society, in which people are free and equal, there are prostituted women, nor should we accept it, it is an expression of domination by intolerable men and which also violates women's human rights; as long as this structural inequality exists, women will not be considered equal. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-20-CD211020.u76	Mr. Iñarritu.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-20-CD211020.u77	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, you have answered something that has nothing to do with what I have asked you. But I agree with what you have said, because I am also in favour of you fighting inequality, obviously. I was asking him about another matter, for equality before the law, and what happens in relation to the emeritus is that more than ten years have passed and, for many crimes attributed to him, he always ends up freeing himself, and not only in the period in which he was inviolable. By the way, they have pointed out that they are going to withdraw the monarch's inviolability, something that seems of common sense, but what happens in relation to the emeritus is that after those years of inviolability, whatever happens, always ends up being freed. It is more, now for fascicles we are told that the Prosecutor will withdraw from the case and that this gentleman will return for Christmas, like the turron. The question is if it was all a paripé, if it was all a staging. But, Mrs Llop, I am not only referring to the facts relating to Bourbon misdemeanours, I am also referring to other matters that are often referred to as state affairs, whether the State Advocate withdraws from the prosecution against Iberdrola in the Tandem case - what a coincidence, the President of Iberdrola -, whether they are other cases that come to be referred to as state affairs, such as a bar fight in Euskal Herria or some fantasy facts about Catalan independenceists, where do they end up? In the National Court, in that emergency court. We also see that a judgment of the European Court of Human Rights is interpreted to the contrary and they want to re-judge Mr Otegui, another coincidence, and they seem to want Spain to be convicted for the third time. I ask you about the European Union report which says that Spain is the sixth country by the tail of perception of judicial independence. What are you guys gonna do to change that? Most of society sees a problem of political and economic influence on State justice. What are you going to do to change it? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-20-CD211020.u78	Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-20-CD211020.u79	Your Honor, I have answered the question you asked me. Next time I'll try to get in his head, and maybe that'll make it right to give him satisfaction. We are now remembering that ten years ago ETA terrorism ended. But not all citizens are and will not be equal as long as there are ongi etorri and tributes to the ages left of the prisons, we will not be equal because they represent a genuine humiliation for the victims and the people we are democrats. Thank you very much. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-20-CD211020.u80	Quiet, please. [[Mrs Vázquez Blanco utters words that are not perceived]] Mrs. Vazquez, silence, please. - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF MIRIAM NOGUERAS I CAMERO, OF THE PLURAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF BUSINESS AND PUBLIC SERVICE: WHAT TAX MEASURES WILL THE GOVERNMENT TAKE REGARD TO AUTONOMOS? [[File number 180/00678]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-20-CD211020.u81	Questions to the Minister for Finance and Public Service. Question by Mrs Miriam Nogueras i Camero from the Plural Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-20-CD211020.u82	Thank you, President. He sent him some questions and concerns from the representatives of the nearly six hundred thousand autonomous, autonomous, workers, entrepreneurs of Catalonia. What do they intend to do so that the self-employed can deduct, as do the L.L., all the expenditure that affects their activity? How does this Government explain that it doubles the share of self-employed people in the midst of a crisis, without any consensus with the sector and at a time of general rising expenditure: light, fuel and too long and so on? How do they justify putting back their hands in the portfolio of more than two million autonomous people via general state budgets? The most sensible thing, Minister, would be for the most progressive government in history to freeze quotas or, I will tell you more, to lower them until it faces the much-announced reform of the Special Self-Employed Workers' Regime. Let's talk about solvency support. Most self-employed people were unable to access the solvency support line, because you were unable to correctly draft the conditions for taking advantage of them. Have you taken any steps to correct such a grave error? I'm afraid we all know the answer: They haven't. And is it not that the biggest beneficiaries of this direct aid have been the banking institutions and this is already going well for you? Before answering all these questions, Minister, I would like you to think very carefully about your answer, because you have been promising and entering into commitments that you do not then fulfil for years. And here neither the right nor the right will serve as an excuse, you are solely responsible for your lack of commitment and your lack of speech. Minister, self-employed people need a State to help and accompany them, but what they find is permanent blackmail and promises that do not fulfil, an improper indifference and abuse of a State in the service of workers. This government does not help the self-governing; more so, it is destroying them right now. Madam Minister, are you committed here and now to allowing the self-employed to deduct all the expenditure that affects their activity at once, as do the S.L.Is that what you're talking about? In other words - before the first vice president spoke and boasted of equality - will equality also apply in this area? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-20-CD211020.u83	Minister of Finance and Public Service.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-20-CD211020.u84	Thank you very much, Madam President. I would ask you, Mrs Nogueras, not to use expressions such as putting your hand in the citizens' pocket, because, of course, I do not think it dignifies political life at all to use expressions that are easily confused with other issues that have nothing to do with the exercise of this government. [[applause]] And I would also tell you, Mrs. Nogueras, that it is not good ruler to throw balloons out. You cannot blame the Government of Spain for the inability shown by the Catalan Government to provide aid - 7 billion for autonomous communities - to SMEs and autonomous communities. Why do they not implement the volume of resources that have arrived in Catalonia aimed at the productive sector? It is a matter of not blaming other administrations for what everyone does wrong or wrong. In fact, you asked me about what the draft budget envisages with regard to self-employed people, and I would like to say that only in trade, tourism and SMEs policies is there a budget of EUR 2932 million, 32 % more than in the previous year; and I would like to tell you that the limits for taxing the module system on income tax and VAT are extended for a further year, which will allow 62 900 people to benefit and 114.7 million to be saved; and I would also like to tell you that for the first time in our history we have granted an extraordinary benefit to self-employed people on the occasion of the pandemic, and I would like to remind you that the draft budget extends part of this aid to cover some months of 2022. Therefore, Your Honor, this government not only trusts and supports the self-employed, but has demonstrated with facts that it is the fundamental part of our productive fabric, and we will continue to work tirelessly to get the activity back, even so that it is better than before the pandemic. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-20-CD211020.u85	Mrs. Nogueras.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-20-CD211020.u86	You interpreted your answer as a no, Minister. And with respect to Catalonia, pay what you owe. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-20-CD211020.u87	Minister of Finance and Public Service.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-20-CD211020.u88	I just want to remind you, Mrs Nogueras, that in order for this reality projected on the autonomous to crystallize, it is essential that this Congress approve and support the general budgets of the State. Therefore, if your parliamentary group looks after the interests of Catalonia, we will count on your vote - I hope - to be able to... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-20-CD211020.u89	Thank you very much, Minister. - OF THE GIRL INES ARRIMED GARCIA, OF THE CITIZEN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF AFFAIRS AND PUBLIC SERVICE: Do you think that the draft law on general state budgets prioritises the well-being of families in difficulty? [[File number 180/00679]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-20-CD211020.u90	Question by Mrs Inés Arrimadas García, Member of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-20-CD211020.u91	Minister, do you believe that your Government has as a priority to help families in difficulty?
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-20-CD211020.u92	Minister of Finance and Public Service.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-20-CD211020.u93	Thank you very much, President. Mrs. Arrimadas, bluntly, yes. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-20-CD211020.u94	Mrs. Arrimadas.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-20-CD211020.u95	Today, your fellow Justice Minister has talked about ETA and I don't know how to tell you, but I don't know how you sleep peacefully having chosen Bildu as your partners, negotiating budgets in exchange for senior prisoners. And above all, Minister, if you are concerned about the tributes to Etarras, you announced that soon a law of Citizens will be voted here to ban the tributes. Let's see what you vote for. But, minister, I'm not going to talk to you about ETA, I'm going to talk to you about ALS, that terrible neurodegenerative disease that advances very fast, that ends up paralyzing all the muscles in the body but that keeps the intellectual and emotional capacity intact, that is, ALS patients feel and suffer to the end. All of us who have known near cases have been impacted by the cruelty of the disease and especially by the evil that families do so in order to be able to take care of the sick. Such care is different at each stage of the disease, but especially at the end of the disease, it requires home health care, does not serve social assistance, and only 5% of families can afford this care. Many ALS patients want to live but do not want to ruin their families along the way. In order to solve this injustice and to guarantee equal rights throughout Spain, Citizens have already registered a specific law to assist the care of patients with ALS and their Government has vetoed it, which means that it cannot be processed or discussed. We're talking about other things all day, but you don't want us to talk about her. You say you can't find money for the ALS, that's why you've vetoed it. I will tell you what you find money for: to raise 5% more spending on advisors, to raise the salary to your government, to raise 21% more the CIS of Tezanos, to rescue more than 50 million euros to Plus Ultra, or to plug convicts into some ministries of your government, and they also do so by frying to taxes. Well, we don't give up, we're going to re-present this law so you can rectify, because you have to find money for the important thing. Here there is political and social consensus on this issue, only the political will of his Government is lacking. I ask you to rectify because in this we can and must agree, and the sick of ELA and their families deserve it. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-20-CD211020.u96	Minister of Finance and Public Service.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-20-CD211020.u97	Thank you very much, Madam President. First of all, I would like to say - like all my colleagues who have taken the floor and the President himself - that it should be a source of pride and joy for this House that ten years later we can celebrate the end of ETA. [[Applauds]] We, as democrats, have always, Mrs Arrimadas, asked terrorists to abandon their weapons, honored people who are victims of terrorism and called for political struggles to be done in the institutions. We cannot, therefore, permanently reproach politics for coming to terms with the institutions, which is the place where it has to come to terms. Your Honor, you could have asked me directly about a disease that I know well for my previous profession, a disease that affects thousands of people, a disease that, today, the only chance we have to fight against it is to support research. In these budgets there is certainly a bet for the increase of innovation and knowledge, an increase of the Ministry of Science that exceeds 11%, since only through science will we be able to find answers for people with ALS. But, I tell you something else, it strikes me that a group like yours, Citizens, which governs by supporting the right of the People's Party in most of the autonomous communities, does not take note of what you have just said. If you believe that in Andalusia, that in Madrid, that in the places where you govern there is a lack of attention to people with ALS, you strengthen the resources that are directed to health in the autonomous communities where you govern. [[Applauds]] Because, in case you don't know, Mrs Arrimadas - which we sometimes forget - in the constitutional structure those responsible for health care reside in the autonomous communities. Therefore, that speech that you will pay for consists of blaming another while one flees from his own responsibility does not work, Your Honor, when we are talking about the pain of many people who require - as you have said - health care. We in the budgets have greatly increased the health budget, we are talking about more than 10% increase in that ministry. Therefore, Your Honor, I hope that it will be consistent in the places where you govern. [[Applauds]] - OF THE MINISTER OF THE INTERIOR: WHAT IS THIS 'PROGRESSOR SECURITY MANAGEMENT' OF WHICH YOU PRESUMBERED IN THE PREVIOUS CONTROL SESSION? [[File number 180/00683]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-20-CD211020.u98	Question to the Minister for the Interior. Question by Mr Ignacio Gil Lázaro, Member of the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-20-CD211020.u99	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, what is this about a 'progressive security management' that you assumed here last week?
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-20-CD211020.u100	Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-20-CD211020.u101	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you, Mr. Gil Lazarus. If you remember correctly, you were present and read the Journal of Sessions, in my appearance on 17 February 2020 I duly explained it before this House and I have been explaining it for three years of serious and firm work in the Ministry of the Interior. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-20-CD211020.u102	Mr. Gil Lazarus.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-20-CD211020.u103	No, Minister, you didn't explain anything, you got out of the way a conceptual jargon to try to cover up your lies and your failures. But let's face it, is it a progressive security management to humiliate the victims of ETA, to consent you - Minister of Justice - to the tributes to the murderers, to challenge Otegi's support in exchange for prisoners or to continue to consent to Sánchez's partners continuing to harass the Civil Guard and the police in Catalonia, the Basque Country and Navarre? Or is it a progressive management that its inability as a minister is facilitating jihadists, criminals and thieves to enter Spain illegally or as MENA later sowing insecurity in our villages and neighborhoods and counting on the complicit silence of a certain press that tries to cover it up? Perhaps a progressive security management is that today a seventy-seven-year-old Spaniard is in prison for defending his life in the face of the night interference of a Magrebian criminal in his home and, instead, another Magrebian criminal is still in his air today after providing a brutal beating to a policeman on a bus in Zaragoza. Perhaps a progressive security management is that all of you close ranks - as you did yesterday - to protect a criminal convicted by the Supreme Court for kicking a policeman, passing through the lining the conviction of the court and protecting and allowing that deputy of Podemos to continue here today entangled in his seat. In short, Minister, you are a scam and that is why the Spanish people are wishing to give you the door in the ballot box. We, VOX, will be at the head of this effort, without rare pacts with Sánchez, like others; we openly, in front of and at the clear, without complex or tibias at the service of Spain and the Spanish. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-20-CD211020.u104	Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-20-CD211020.u105	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you, Mr. Gil Lazarus. As I say to you, you always come to repeat the same story, but I will repeat it to you again, in case it has not become clear to you during these three and a half years. Progressive security policy is necessarily to capitalize, institutionalize and humanize - to humanize, which perhaps is the horteran term you refer to - the policies of the Ministry of the Interior. It is very simple, as the President of the Government said today, between 2011 and 2018 the governments of the People's Party - those to which you belonged - lost 12,000 troops, 10% of troops between police and civilian guards. We have recovered almost 10,000 troops in three years. We're almost at the 2011 standards when President Zapatero's government ended. And, of course, they must be provided with resources, infrastructure, hence the EUR 600 million plan to improve the facilities. We must give them greater means to work. Decency, especially decency. I refer to the committees in this House. Return the decency to the Ministry of the Interior. I remind you of a recent car from Central Court of Instruction No. 6 regarding a performance while the People's Party was at the head of the Ministry of the Interior. And yes, to humanize - to humanize, that horde to which you referred, but which is so important - is to protect the dignity of all human beings, to create safe environments, orderly environments so that we can all exercise our rights and freedoms. Today it is ten years since ETA's defeat for democracy. That is also progressive politics. It was a policy of all Spaniards and, as has been recalled, at the head of the Ministry of the Interior was Alfredo Pérez Rubalcaba and was lehendakari Patxi López. Today we continue to work for the memory and dignity of the victims of terrorism and that remains progressive politics, fight terrorism, fight terror and dignify the whole... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-20-CD211020.u106	Thank you very much, Minister. - OF THE DEVELOPED THRISTIAN MARIA MORALEJA GOMEZ, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF INDUSTRY, TRADE AND TOURISM: DOES YOU CONSIDER THAT THE ENERGY POLICY OF THE GOVERNMENT IS HELPING THE SPANISH INDUSTRY? [[File number 180/00687]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-20-CD211020.u107	Question to the Minister for Industry, Commerce and Tourism. Question by Mrs Tristana María Moralesja Gómez, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-20-CD211020.u108	Minister, every time you talk about industry, it closes a company in this country; every time you develop a new industrial plan, thousands of employees go to the street and every time you design a new-supposedly green-strategy, our GDP is recent. The government's industrial and energy transition policies are leading to the destruction of the Spanish business fabric and the ruin of our industry and you are silent. Only in my land, in Galicia, Alcoa, Alu Iberiana, Siemens Gamesa, As Pontes, Meirama, Ence, Vestas. Do you want me to go on? Do you know how many families you've left behind? [[Applauds]] The Socialist Government is condemning Spanish industry by action and omission. They abandon our companies and lack - we see again in the budgets - a solvent industrial plan. Their ecological transition policies, which are neither transition nor ecological, are dismantling our industrial fabric. In view of this, Minister, do you believe that the government's energy policy is helping Spanish industry? You don't believe it either. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-20-CD211020.u109	Minister for Industry, Commerce and Tourism.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-20-CD211020.u110	Thank you, President. Yes, Your Honor, all the policies that this government is developing, including energy, are helping the industry. Please see whether the priority for this government is the industry that the budgets for 2022 will count, Your Honor, with the largest budget line for the Spanish industrial policy, more than 4831 million euros. And since you are talking about energy policy, I will tell you - although you should know, Your Honor, because last week they voted against a significant number of measures that will help industry - what this government has done. This government has lowered taxes by reducing VAT from 21 % to 10 %. The excise duty on electricity has been lowered, the value of energy production tax has been exempted and, your honor, new revenues have been injected into the electro-intensive industry to compensate for CO2. It represents, Your Honor, the largest public effort - more than EUR 4 billion, an unachieved figure - to support our industry. And I say that you should know that, Your Honor, because the Group of the European People's Party and yourself voted against all these measures, again condemning the industry, if its negative vote had come out in favour of not being able to contain energy prices. Therefore, raise your shoulder, get to work, and I hope you will support the 2022 State General Budgets, which, as I say, have the most important part to support industry and to make this country's industry gain weight and be competitive. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-20-CD211020.u111	Mrs. Moraleja.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-20-CD211020.u112	Mrs Maroto, I'm talking to you about these companies: Fertiberia, Sidenor, ArcelorMittal. My spokesman told you this morning. They already announced that they were suspending the activity as they were unable to meet production costs. In the coming weeks, other companies will follow the same path. Megasa will produce on nights and weekends. I could tell you about the ceramic sector or any other industrial sector. You are talking about measures; measures that you will have to reformulate again because they are insufficient. It makes companies lose competitiveness. Mr Aegean told you last week: the industry from Basauri to Palos de la Frontera will stop its activity because they cannot cope with the costs of light. Their measures are ineffective and this will cause many people to lose their jobs. Do you know what industrial employment is? Yes, you do. Look, the UGT unionist says it will affect 20,000 people, 20,000 people you've already left behind. I think that you, in the face of your partner's ideological transition, are not able to say enough... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-20-CD211020.u113	Thank you very much, Mrs. Moraleja. Minister for Industry, Commerce and Tourism.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-20-CD211020.u114	Thank you, President. Mrs Moraleja, the truth is that the People's Party cannot teach us lessons. [[Laughs. - Rumors.]] We are going to pull the hemerotheque and see the measures taken by his party, which also had to face a rise in the energy price. You guys went up the VAT. Do you remember? From 18 % to 21 %. But it was not enough for them, but they also created new tax figures. I remind you: the tax on the value of electricity production, the hydraulic canon, the sun tax, but, in addition, Your Honor, it has left the Spaniards an unbearable inheritance, 10 billion euros, Your Honor, 10 billion euros of the awards that have been generated by the decree that it made against the renewables. So don't give us any lessons. What you have to do, ladies and gentlemen, is to tie your shoulder, to work with this government and to make a constructive policy; and, if you are so concerned about industry, as I say to you, to support the 2022 General Budgets. Those decrees that you say you bring in this government are good for the industry and I hope the People's Party will help the industry by also helping the government. Thank you. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEVELOPED Mrs. CAROLINA TELECHEA I LOZANO, OF THE REPUBLIC PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE GOVERNMENT: WHY CONSIDER THE SPANISH GOVERNMENT THAT HAS AGREED A GOOD AGREEMENT ON THE RENEWAL OF CONSTITUTIONAL BODIES? [[File number 180/00677]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-20-CD211020.u115	Question to the Minister for the Presidency: Relations with the Courts and Democratic Memory. Question by Mrs Carolina Telechea i Lozano, Member of the Republican Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-20-CD211020.u116	Thank you, President. Why does the Spanish Government consider that it has reached a good agreement on the renewal of the constitutional bodies?
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-20-CD211020.u117	Minister of the Presidency, Relations with the Courts and Democratic Memory.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-20-CD211020.u118	Thank you very much, Madam President. We believe that this is a good agreement, first of all, because it strengthens democratic institutions, because it normalizes them, because we could no longer stand institutions in office with expired mandates, and when we strengthen democratic institutions we strengthen democracy. Secondly, I also say to you that it is the best democratic culture of the most advanced democracies to reach agreements between different, in which there is a space for discrepancy and also a space for agreement. And, thirdly, what we have done, Mrs Telechea, has been nothing more than what the citizens ask of us, who normally live in their groups of friends, at work, in their family, with people who think differently, with great discrepancies, but who, in the end, also have points of connection. In short, it is the essence of democracy to comply with the law and reach agreements. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-20-CD211020.u119	Mrs. Telechea.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-20-CD211020.u120	Thank you, President. Minister, nothing new under the sun. The 1978 regime resealed its dynastic and nationalistic pact. PSOE and PP agree on the renewal of the constitutional bodies in the same way as they do to cover the corruption of the Bourbons, because, in reality, they do not want the Court of Auditors or the Constitutional to be impartial bodies. They want political advisers and judges, hooligans who serve the interests of the regime and bipartisanism. Only in this way can it be explained that after decades of politicians stealing throughout and throughout Spain the property actions of the Court of Auditors are only against the independent politicians for organizing a referendum that they promised in their electoral program and for which the population voted them. Because while Esquerra Republicana paid the 2.5 million euros that he imposed as bail unjustly and with total defencelessness on more than thirty discharges from the Generalitat de Catalunya, including President Puigdemont, the PSOE agreed with the PP to renew that body. Look, Minister, the problem is not that they are renewed without the left and not even with their government partners, the problem is not to democratise these bodies. In two years they have been unable to curb ideological and repressive abuses of power, to change the method of choosing their members, to prevent the blackmailist blockade of the right or to break the male hegemony and the glass ceiling for women, just as they have been unable to repeal the Law gag. In short, do not tell us any more stories, Minister, because above left and right, the PSOE and the PP agree to defend Spain from the regime. Do not be surprised, then, that those who do not want the monarchy of 1978 choose to defend independence and the Catalan republic. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-20-CD211020.u121	Minister of the Presidency, Relations with the Courts and Democratic Memory.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-20-CD211020.u122	Thank you very much, Madam President. Firstly, if I may, I would like to make a defence of Spanish democracy. It is a full democracy, absolutely homologable with the democracies of our environment, and not said by the Spanish Government, all the international rankings say it from the point of view you want to look at, any of the parameters say that Spain is a full democracy. I therefore believe that it is good that the speeches are in line with reality and that we should say that Spain is a democracy, even when there are resolutions of the bodies to which you referred, that at times it is clear that we disagree with some of the things they say, but even there they have to abide by and we must always recognize the judicial independence, the independence of the constitutional organs and the legitimacy of this Parliament, which is where popular sovereignty resides in order to have a democratic basis for the election of all those bodies. Secondly, I would like to tell you that this is a government that always builds bridges, a government that always tries agreements and a government that always seeks solutions. What's the point of not talking to the other guy? To a lockdown? Is that what we want for Spain and what we want, in the case of your group, when it comes to Catalonia? Do we really not have to talk between different people, even when there are very deep discrepancies, as is the case between your group and mine? Ladies and gentlemen, what we want from the Spanish Government is dialogue, what we want is agreements between different people and what we want, in short, is for Spanish democracy to be stronger because different people understand each other. Thank you. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF ALICIA GARCIA RODRIGUEZ, IN THE REPRESENTATION OF MARGARITA PROHENS RIGO, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF SOCIAL RIGHTS AND AGENDA 2030: DOES THE MINISTER THAT SPAIN IS A SOCIAL AND DEMOCRATIC STATE OF RIGHT? [[File number 180/00688]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-20-CD211020.u123	Question addressed to the Minister for Social Rights and Agenda 2030. Question by Mrs Garcia Rodríguez, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-20-CD211020.u124	Minister, do you consider Spain to be a social and democratic state?
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-20-CD211020.u125	Minister for Social Rights and Agenda 2030.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-20-CD211020.u126	Yeah. Do you think so? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-20-CD211020.u127	Mrs. Garcia.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-20-CD211020.u128	Minister, you must comply with and enforce the Constitution, the rule of law and respect court judgments. You have said in recent statements that in convictions, if the convicted person is Podemos, they are political trials. To you, this statement disqualifies you from remaining a minister of the Kingdom of Spain. You, who came to regenerate politics, are now dedicated to degenerate. They change the code of ethics, before they demanded to give up public office when they were accused, convicted or prosecuted, and now you reward them with a public salary or a position in the Ministry of Equality; I call this cynicism. Minister, something smells rotten in Podemos. They protect Alberto Rodríguez, a convicted felon for assaulting a police officer, who remains screwed to his seat despite having a final conviction. Those who disqualify justice from public office, you rehabilitate them with a public salary. They have placed convicted, investigated and accused persons in the Ministry of Equality. Isa Serra, Mayer and Sánchez Mato will be pocketing 270,000 euros a year, while the failure of their social shield unleashes a pandemic of poverty. According to Caritas, there are eleven million people in exclusion, two and a half million more people than in 2018; more than six million people in severe poverty, about two million more than three years ago, and you lay there fresh. A curiosity, what else does Podemos score for a public salary? Kicking a woman cop, assaulting cops, misrepresenting, provoking? Yes, yes, gentlemen of Podemos, I see you in peace. If you are convicted, you will be able to remain in your seat or earn a salary of 100,000 euros in the Ministry of Equality. I conclude, Minister. To solve the problems of the people he claimed to be defending. I have paid the subsidies of the thermal social bonus that has owed since December of this year to more than 1,300,000 families; the cold comes, the light goes off and you do not pay what you owe. For democratic hygiene, explain or leave. Thank you very much. [[A Member of Parliament: Very well, Alicia!-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-20-CD211020.u129	Minister for Social Rights and Agenda 2030.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-20-CD211020.u130	Thank you, President. I was asking you, Your Honor, whether you believe that Spain is a social and democratic state of law because, after seeing the national convention of the People's Party, the truth is that many of us have doubts about your commitment to legality and democracy. [[Applauds]] Not only did you invite corrupt and international tax fraudsters as if you did not have enough with those in your ranks, but Mr Vargas Llosa allowed himself the luxury of saying that the important thing in an election is not to vote freely, but to vote well. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-20-CD211020.u131	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-20-CD211020.u132	An example of democratic commitment, Mr Vargas Llosa. [[Applauds]] Look, Your Honor, the difference between you and us is that this government always defends democracy, not only when it works for it. Precisely, you have not accepted the defeat that you had in the ballot box and have since the beginning of the parliamentary term in open rebellion against the Spanish Constitution, refusing to reform and renew the General Council of the Judiciary, which has had its term expired for two and a half years. [[Applauds]] This government, Your Honor, does not think that people vote badly, that it is acceptable that a party was financed illegally or that the Ministry of the Interior can be used to pursue political opponents, as the People's Party did when it ruled. This coalition government is surely the one that has promoted the most important progress in the rights and freedoms of our recent democracy, because we not only respect democracy, Your Honor, but we build democracy every day. The social and legal state and democracy is to set up an interprofessional minimum wage which is 30% higher than you left three years ago. Social state and democracy is to deploy ERTs that have saved thousands of businesses and hundreds of thousands of jobs, unlike what you did in the previous economic crisis, leaving unemployment and poverty; it is to extend a social shield that has made it possible to protect people, instead of applying austerity policies that leave people lying down. Democracy is that women are not told that our rapes are a joy and that our sexual freedom is guaranteed by law. [[Applauds]] And democracy is abrogating once and for all its laws gags that make us put ourselves in the ranking... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-20-CD211020.u133	Thank you very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-20-CD211020.u134	We are now dealing with the appeals addressed to the Government. Urgent inquiry by the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Baldoví Roda, into the unsustainable situation in which Renfe's neighbourhood service is located in Valencia. For your defence, Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-20-CD211020.u135	Thank you very much, Madam President. Welcome, Minister. I want to apologize for my indisposition the previous Wednesday. I would have wanted to be here, but it couldn't have been. Allow me, today that I have a lot of time, to make a preview - even if it is not of your ministry - that I think it has to make us reflect as democrats. Just now that the Fira del Llibre de Castelló is being celebrated, a judge kidnaps thirty-two books on the theme LGTBI - at the request of Christian lawyers - that had distributed the councillor of Equality, Veronica Ruiz, and that they intended to educate in respect for diversity. What a heresy! On top of that, they want to report her. They have already denounced it for wanting to remove a Francoist monument and, unfortunately - and I say this to you because it is of the Socialist Party - it is not the first time that the Socialist Party has profiled itself, although in the end it has rectified by popular pressure. In any case, I congratulate the mayor of Castellón, Amparo Marco, for joining the executive of the state PSOE and Vero Ruiz, our councillor, for the dignity and courage she has held. Madam Minister, I know you've only been in office for two months, but in the Spanish state only two parties have ruled, yours and the People's Party; if there are some responsible for the chaotic situation that we have in many territories in the vicinity, obviously these two parties are. We have seen days ago the chaotic situation that arose with the strike of drivers, but that is not the day-to-day. The day-to-day life of Valencian citizens when travelling for reasons of work, study, health care or simply to enjoy leisure and leisure time is sometimes unsustainable. One tells you that you are a user of the proximity system. The lack of real investment in machinery and personnel in an essential service entails situations such as the one I am going to tell you. One day of September Renfe suppressed the following frequencies between 8:00 and 12:00 - i.e., in four hours -: that of 07:25, Gandía-Valencia; that of 08:25, Xàtiva-Valencia; that of 08:53, Xàtiva-Valencia; that of 09:30, Valencia-Aldaia; that of 09:50, Castellón-Valencia; that of 10:02, Aldaia-Valencia; that of 11:13, Valencia-Gandía; that of 11:23, Valencia-Aldaia; that of 11:58, Aldaia-Valencia; that of 12:25, Gandía-Valencia, and that of 12:45, Valencia-Castellón. This has led to a platform, where more and more people are joining, called the Indignats Amb Renfe platform, which denounces this day and day, because this is not an isolated fact. This is a fact that, unfortunately - and I say it as I'm sorry - is repeated too often. Even in my party we have made this little web, which is On està my train? -Where's my train?-, and the Trencancelado.com web, because it's a really usual situation in Valencia's vicinity. [[points out his T-shirt in which he reads: 'Are my train *****?']] There are nine lines of proximity in Valencian territory and all of them - all, although I will mention only two or three - present incidences. For example, line C5 Valencia-Caudiel-Teruel: line with few frequencies; one in ten trains circulate late; contaminant route, since it still does not electrify and therefore works on diesel, and non-duplicate route from Sagunto to Caudiel, thus increasing travel time. The time in mid distance between Valencia and Teruel is two hours and thirty minutes; by car the journey is done more or less in hour and a half. This can be said by the deputy of Teruel Exists, because I know that he has to go up by car and cannot go up by train. Only three bicycles per convoy are allowed, and that the track runs along and parallel to the longest green road in the whole State, and there is no connection between Sagunto and the core of Port de Sagunt despite the fact that the railway infrastructure already exists. Line C6,Valencia-Castellón: saturated passenger line; lack of frequencies; one in 20 trains run late; frequent occurrences; replacement of trains by buses; the frequencies that existed before the works of the third wire for the Mediterranean corridor have not been recovered. Finally, line C1, Alacant-Murcia - to quote one of each Valencian territory, although it is close to Murcia -: saturated passenger line; lack of frequencies; unfolded route throughout its route; unelectrified route; diesel trains; there is no stop yet at Alicante-Elche Airport, although the line passes at a short distance. Moreover, the regions of La Safor - where the minister and the Navy are from - where some of the ministers of the council, such as Mr Escrivá - are considered as the European region - I insist, the European region - with the most population without access to railway services. [[The Lord]] I've described the picture to him. Consequences: People stop trusting in the close service because they come late to work, to the study center, to a medical appointment or to an official center. I'm telling you from experience. Sometimes I had to leave the vicinity because I was late for the links with the AVEs to get to Madrid. The core of Valencia is the one that accumulates the worst figures. For example, the Valencian rolling stock service, the Valencian neighbourhood, has lost more than two million users in recent years. It is 12 million that have passed to the car, 12 million that were on the train and that have passed to the car, 40%, due to the shortcomings of the network of closeness. According to Spain's own government,only in 2019 there were 7593 cancellations of trains near Valencia, when in 2013 it was 0.1% - none of the Spanish state's core reaches 1% - and around 11% of the trains arrived at their destination late. In Madrid it is 4% and in Valencia it is 11%, which means that between 11,000 and 14,000 of the trains that travelled by Valencian routes arrived late in 2019. Obviously, this has one cause: lack of investment. Many ministers have passed; I do not say that it is for you, you start now and I hope that you will be the one who promises and the one who invests. Closeness plans have been promised, and then the investments actually implemented are truly ridiculous. If we compare the investments and the execution, I have a graph in which I think it is very very very visible. [[Displays a graph]] In blue are the investments and in red the executed. The investments in Valencia are very small in recent years and, instead, in Madrid - despite Mrs Ayuso - one thing is budgeted and it turns out that much more is executed than is budgeted. I, as a Valencian who has long been here in Madrid as a regular public transport service, sincerely envyes me. The bidding and, above all, the investment are absolutely ridiculous, we believe it is practically a real mockery: 5% execution in the vicinity. This execution contrasts with what has been done with high-speed lines. In addition, these budgets continue to be invested in major works that continue to bet on the model of the use of the car, such as the unfolding of the A7, the baipás. It already passed us with the C21 at the entrance of Valencia and now it will pass with this baipás, because you dedicate budget money to this investment. Honestly, one thing is what they're saying and another is what they paint on the papers. Then there are investments in staff: absolutely insufficient replacement rates, continued ERE, decapitalization of staff, staff bleeding. The workforce has been reduced to 50% since 1983 and too much use is made of subcontracting. In short, it is a company with an aged staff, decapitalized staff and with little female presence. The most obvious consequence is that many people have been forced to leave the train because there is no investment, neither in material nor in personnel, and because there is still no public transport law. In the answer I will point out some of the solutions that we humbly propose to you since Compromís. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-20-CD211020.u136	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] I now have the floor on behalf of the Government, the Minister for Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-20-CD211020.u137	Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you very much, Mr. Baldoví. I am quite glad that last week's indisposition was punctual and that it will accompany us and can proceed to present the inquiry that I had formulated for the previous plenary session. I must tell you, Mr Baldoví, that we share the vision of the importance of closeness service. It is an essential service for citizens and, above all, it is key in their daily mobility for travel to work places, studies and, ultimately, for their day-to-day lives. Taking as a reference the 2019 figures prior to the pandemic, the proximity was used by more than 430 million travellers each year throughout Spain. To be aware of its relevance, let us remember that the rest of the railway services were used that same year by about 34 million passengers in the case of long distance and high speed and 33 million passengers in the case of medium distance. It is To say, the proximity moves almost 87% of the rail travellers in our country, which means in terms of sustainability, as it is the most efficient means of transport in terms of energy consumption and CO2 emissions. In the case of the two neighbourhoods of the Valencian Community, Valencia and Alicante, we talk about almost 20 million travellers a year in 2019. We are therefore aware of its importance throughout Spain and, in particular, of course, in the Valencian Community. For this reason, we are working to strengthen this system - the proximity above all - and in the Secure, Sustainable and Connected Mobility Strategy; and, with the Recovery and Resilience Mechanism, in the ministry we have several initiatives under way. Firstly, and of a global nature, the Near 2025 initiative aims to promote daily mobility in a way that is more sustainable and increasingly digital and more connected. We are finalizing the proposal which we hope will be completed this year and which, of course, will also benefit the Valencian Community. Also aware of the specific needs that arise in the Valencian Community, I must say that we continue to make progress in the plan to improve the quality of the neighbourhoods, which envisages the mobilization of more than €1400 million in investments in a triple aspect: the capacity and reliability of the infrastructure, accessibility and comfort for travellers and also the minimization of the number of incidents; you listed some of them and we are aware of this situation. We are also aware that, when we assumed responsibility in the Government, there was a need for continuous dialogue with the Territory on these aspects. For this reason, in December 2018 we constituted the Follow-up Commission of the Plan of Closenesses in the Valencian Community. As a result of the work of this committee, in February 2020 we presented an action plan with the immediate objective of achieving a level of quality of service comparable to the national average in terms of timeliness and also compliance with the scheduled offer. However, it is also true that a few weeks later the scenario changed almost overnight, because we are faced with an unprecedented health crisis and pandemic. However, I want to tell you that since June 2018 I believe we have made progress. Some of them are very relevant and I would like to take advantage of the opportunity it offers me with that interpellation to remember them. Thanks to the public service obligation contract, in the last quarter of 2018 we established the new services between Castelló de la Plana and Vinaròs, as well as between Alicante and Villena, which had a strong territorial demand. In the area of infrastructure, we have promoted actions amounting to EUR 445 million, which accounts for 40% of the plan's budget in this block. Thanks to this - and to put some examples in concrete lines - we have put into operation a new system of management of the railway traffic on the route between Buñol and Utiel of the C3 line; we have completed the renovation works of the Sagunt-Caudiel section on the C5 line, and on the C6 line, between València Nord and Castelló de la Plana, we continue to make improvements in the framework of the works of the Mediterranean corridor. On the other hand, in the context of the current plans, we have completed works of improvement in numerous stations, among which I can mention Carcaixent, Cataroja, Benifaió, Almussafes, Puig de Santa María, Silla, Requena, Chiva, Burriana, Villarreal or Puçol. In terms of services, we have also given an important boost to the facilities with the improvement of the intercom in the stations, the implementation of the Renfe and Tu contactless card, the adequacy of the self-sale machines or the improvement of the signaling and information system in several stations. We have also intervened in the modernisation of the fleet and are embarking on the renewal of different units. I would like to highlight the public service fleet renewal plan that was launched in 2019 with ongoing tenders worth more than €3.5 billion. You know that since 2012 no new train was purchased for the provision of public service obligations and we - I insist - in 2019 we launched tenders with a budget of more than 3.5 billion euros. In June last year we also implemented the express return system, provided that the delay exceeds fifteen minutes, until the objectives of punctuality are achieved, because they must be achieved, Mr Baldoví. In October 2020 we specifically appointed a coordinator to follow up on these actions on the ground. Last year we incorporated fourteen new drivers into the heart of Valencia. In April of this year 2020 we have completed the reorganization of the workshops, in which we have also expanded the equipment. We have reinforced the preventive maintenance of rolling stock. New communication and customer service protocols have been implemented. Thanks to this, for example, users of C1, C2 and C6 who represent the majority of travellers already receive direct information on trains from the management centre. In this same line, I also want to tell you that the information has been strengthened through social networks, so that users can know in advance if you are going to cancel any service and also if you are going to change your travel plan. A new application has also been put into operation that allows users to have real-time information about trains and purchase tickets through this application. Finally, I would like to recall that since the completion of the first state of alarm, the supply of proximity to pre-pandemic levels has been virtually restored. However, I have to say that, according to the demand data accumulated until September, the demand is 38% lower. It is not easy to reverse this situation, to turn from night to morning to a very complicated situation, which is also the result of years of inaction, but, beyond some problems of punctuality or short-term - which can occur, as has happened in recent weeks, and I give you the reason - we are already seeing the first positive results. By 2020, we have managed to change the growing trend in the percentage of trains that have been removed from those scheduled, from 6.5% in 2019 to 3% in 2020 and 2.7% in what we have been doing since 2021. Although our ultimate goal is of course not to cancel, I must also say - and we should recognise - that evolution is being favourable. We have also been able to gradually increase the punctuality of movements, so that, compared to 84% by the beginning of 2020, we are above 90% in what we have been doing for the year. However, I insist that we are aware that there is still an important way to go and, therefore, for the Valencian Community, in the draft State General Budgets for 2022 we have increased the investment budget in the railway sector by 12.6%, from 642 million to 724 million euros, and the total investment attributable to proximity exceeds 375 million euros. In the area of infrastructure, we will also continue to make progress on the set of actions that we are in the process of implementing and which will benefit both centres of proximity. The set of projects we have written in ADIF include actions, Mr Baldoví, which exceed EUR 230 million. In the field of services, we will continue to speed up the incorporation of driving personnel; firstly, through the mobility procedures that are in progress, but also through the new incorporations, completing the training processes of new drivers. You know that these training processes and the incorporation of new drivers have been affected due to the limitations of weight in both cabins and in the training classrooms by the pandemic. I therefore insist that we will incorporate more staff and new drivers into the whole Spanish State. By the end of this year 2021 we will reach the highest figure of the last years with 5720 drivers. In conclusion, I can reiterate the commitment of this Ministry and the Government to the closeness of the Valencian Community. Of course, we are going to work to reverse this situation and to improve the service we offer to Valencians and Valencians, and I announce that we have commissioned the neighbourhood coordinator a plan so that we can advance actions that are essential and that have to allow us to improve the service. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-20-CD211020.u138	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-20-CD211020.u139	Minister, I do not doubt your commitment, but allow me to be like Saint Thomas: when I see it, I will believe; when I touch it, I will believe. The Valencians have an expression that clearly defines this: amb money, turrons; with money, turrons. For example, around 2021, 65 million were budgeted and 22 million were implemented. That's the lamb's mother, the execution. I can understand that one year will not be executed, but one year after another there will be such a low execution... Don't make it up to me, you can do a survey among users from the vicinity of Valencia and Alicante. Do it, please: degree of satisfaction that people have, problems that people point to. The fundamental problem is that they don't get there on time. In your ministry I have known four ministers since I am in this House: Mrs Ana Pastor, Mr De la Serna, Mr Ábalos and now you, Mrs Sánchez. I have never doubted that they would want to do things right, what happens is that in the end they have not been done. Above all, there have been no objective criteria when it comes to investing. I would like to give you a warm example of these general budgets. This year's investments in neighbourhoods: Barcelona, 13 billion, of which I am glad, because I know that they also have a poor service of neighbourhoods in Catalonia; Madrid, 1229 million, when it has a service that I have used and I insist that I have healthy envy; Valencia, 179 million. What is the criterion? What is the criterion here? Is there such a difference in population? Are the proximity of Madrid so bad? What criteria exist? I say this because, for example, with the AVE we have already seen what the criteria were. First AVE, first and second city? No, no, Third? Neither. Fourth. Second AVE, what was done? Fourth, fifth, sixth? No, to the 14th city. The first AVE to Seville - I think very well - and the second AVE to the fourteenth city. What criteria have there been many times in your ministry? That's what we complain about. That is why we ask for criteria, that is why we ask for a law of public transport to be made at once, so that it is invested with criteria and not, as the Valencians say, to the chicken padri, that is to say, to orri, that is to say, with other interests that are not objective. In addition, we say all this to you in one year, the European Year of Railways, which should mark the commitment to promote sustainable forms of transport and to achieve climate neutrality by 2050, and which urges the Government to maximize the promotion of the use of railways. And I'm done. Last week I met the mayor of Valencia, Mr Ribó. Valencia is making an important effort to make traffic more friendly, to encourage the use of bicycles. Honestly, Valencia has changed in these six months because it continues to think about the usefulness of bicycles, not so in Madrid where the subject of bicycles is being completely abandoned. The mayor told me that all the effort they make to make the city more friendly, to encourage the use of bicycles within the city is truncated because to access the city people mostly have to use the car. So...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-20-CD211020.u140	You have to finish, Mr. Baldoví.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-20-CD211020.u141	It's over, President. Minister, engagement, but also toasts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-20-CD211020.u142	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] To conclude the debate, the Minister for Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-20-CD211020.u143	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Baldoví, I insist on what I said to you earlier in my first speech. We are absolutely committed to improving our services, the service of closeness, in the whole of Spain and especially also in the Valencian Community, as we are aware of those incidents that you reported at the beginning. Of course, our commitment is firm. I believe that, in some ways, too, it is unfair to say that not all efforts have been made or that in some sense a reasonable approach has not been applied to the implementation of the commitments and projects that have been designed. We have a criterion, of course, which is the criterion of trying through transport infrastructures, and in this case through railway infrastructures and as far as proximity is concerned, of actually - I insist - getting the territory to be vertebrated and also of promoting social cohesion. Of course that is the criterion that governs our action and it is that which has also allowed us to address a total execution of the Plan of Closeness in the Valencian Community of approximately 175 million euros, to which would be added another 229 million euros corresponding to the actions of the Mediterranean Corridor. I am aware - I insist - that we have to improve, but we have also done actions in the field of infrastructure by lines and in those concerning the proximity in the C-1, the renewal of the section between Silla and Cullera and the duplication also that we will approach from Cullera to Gandía, as well as in the C-2 also the renovation of the track and the chain in the section between the Pobla Llarga and Silla and in the C-3 we will continue to advance in the projects for the improvement of the track and also of the installations. And this will be a reality because we have provided our budgets, but in addition I have expressly instructed - I insist - the coordinator of the Plan of Closenesses to address and issue a plan, above all including the current state of the network of closenesses and the level of actual and actual execution of this plan in the Valencian Community. We must also analyse the current situation of the infrastructure and its present and future needs, emphasizing the railway cores affected by the new plan in two autonomous communities: the Valencian Community and the Region of Murcia, because the two cores know that they exist between these two communities. I have asked you to make a diagnosis of the problem in relation to these characteristics mentioned, together with the analysis of the factors that have determined in a decrease - and it is true - to the detriment of the quality of the service. We will therefore address a strategy, investment policies and programming by setting short- and medium-term priorities, with the intention of reversing that situation which is, of course, better. We continue with the impulse of the closeness in Valencia, but we also continue with the impulse of the closeness in the whole of Spain. We have increased investment in the conventional network by 9% compared to 2019 and by 63% compared to 2018. In the case of proximity to the whole of Spain, actions amounting to almost EUR 200 million were carried out, with the aim of increasing the reliability and capacity of the different cores. Also, closeness and urban mobility in the general budget for 2021 have been allocated to close to EUR 880 million. These figures denote the will of the ministry to promote closeness. I insist, we have the same will to promote and improve the proximity in the Valencian Community, but also through other initiatives that do not have so much to do with, perhaps, material investment in machinery or roads. For example, the Near 25 initiative, I believe it is an initiative that is going to mean an improvement and a perception of improvement in daily mobility through an increasingly digital and connected model - as I told you before -. That is our proposal, that is our purpose, and I hope, Mr Baldoví, that these commitments that we have made from the Spanish Government will be translated into reality. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-20-CD211020.u144	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] - OF THE CITIZEN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, TO THE MINISTER OF TRANSPORT, MOBILITY AND URBAN AGENDA ON THE MEASURES PROVIDED FOR BY THE GOVERNMENT OF SPAIN TO ENSURE ACCESS TO A LIVE DIGNA TO CITIZENS. [[File number 172/000146]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-20-CD211020.u145	Urgent call from the Parliamentary Group Citizens to the Minister of Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda, on the measures that the Government of Spain intends to promote to guarantee access to decent housing for citizens. Mr López-Bas Valero has the floor for his defence.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-20-CD211020.u146	Thank you, President. Minister, good morning. Believe me if I tell you that my intention with this question is to have a frank and open debate, an honest and constructive debate because my intention is really that this initiative can reach a meeting point on the subject that concerns us: the right to access to decent and adequate housing for all Spaniards. Believe me, Mrs Sánchez, my group, the Citizens' Group has a sincere interest in the fact that this right - enshrined in article 47 of the Constitution - is a reality. That provision requires the public authorities, including, in particular, the Government and its ministry, to implement effective policies that promote the necessary conditions and relevant rules for the realization of this right, as it states. But believe me too, Minister, when I tell you that for that it is absolutely necessary to know - in our opinion - who we are going to discuss this issue with, with what Raquel Sánchez we are going to meet. So, let me ask you directly: what Raquel Sánchez are you today? Are you the mayor of Gavá in Barcelona, who adhered to the Catalan law that limits rents, or is she the minister of the government who until recently refused to intervene in the market and to limit the prices, precisely, of these rents? Because that, as we all remember, is the line maintained by your predecessor Mr Ábalos, as has also been done in his demonstrations by Mrs Carmen Calvo - today defenestrada - or Mrs Nadia Calviño, who continues to sit on the government benches with you, but whose opinion as to what things you see is already counting less. Understand, minister, that we are concerned to know which person you are in that strange dance of multiple personalities that they show from the government, in the image and likeness of Pedro Sánchez president or Pedro Sánchez persona. We want to know who he really is, who is going to implement housing policies in Spain in the coming months. We are concerned because you have also shown that you can be against the enlargement of El Prat as mayor, but also in favour of that enlargement as Minister of Transport. Moreover, this is not new in her Government, as Minister Montero went from demanding a reform of autonomous financing from Andalusia to denying it from Moncloa. Not to mention what Sánchez and Podemos were already doing and saying about the price of light in the opposition and what they are quiet now that they are in the government. Moreover, as you did you can announce an investment of 17 billion precisely in the enlargement of El Prat and a few days later say that it will no longer be executed by dissensions in an autonomous government, of which we still do not really have news about its causes. Or as it happens when you pass from lifting barriers on tolls to announce yesterday that from now on we will have a sticker that will cost us something like 80 euros for every vehicle we have. All this is explained in the strange or impossible balance between the partners of government and understand, Mrs Sánchez, that distrust. With what Raquel Sánchez we are going to discuss this question, with which last September 30 literally stated: The limitation of rents is a very discussed measure that has not yielded results and that has given rise to a lot of litigation where it has been applied? It's literal, but you applied it yourself in your town hall. Are you the minister who stood before Podemos and bet on tax incentives and deductions that would make the owner attractive to mobilize his home and introduce it into the affordable market, or are you the minister who now claudes before Podemos and his populist measures - which have not worked, as you said - and now announces a law that will intervene the market and affect the right to property? I insist, in order to be able to debate, and not only for that, but also to make coherent, reasonable and effective policies from the government, the first commandment is not to deceive, not to announce what is then not capable of doing, not to fall into contradictions, not to end up defending the opposite of what is believed to please the incumbent partner. We think you've started badly, Mrs. Sánchez. It starts badly in the eyes of common sense, or if saying one thing and doing another is the distinction of merit and capacity of the government of Pedro Sánchez. I really don't want my whole speech to be a reproach, because what this initiative is about is knowing what you are going to do, what your ministry and this government are going to do, which is so hard for you to be honest with with your internal battles between PSOE and Podemos, when all that matters is to keep a chair and a salary and the last thing is the interest of the Spaniards at a difficult and complicated time, with huge problems in accessing a home. This Government has not put in place a single effective measure to promote the conditions for the enjoyment of the constitutionally recognized right to housing. It has not put them in place, nor does it seem that it will, because you continue to make promises to the future and complain as if you were not in the Government. The only thing they can presume is that they have put a stop to legal evictions, putting the owners, precisely, in a situation of insecurity and defencelessness. Mrs Sánchez, in 2021 we have already lost another year, as it happened in 2020. It is another year lost in housing policies, another year in the patch on the patch of old bipartisanism. The Government of Progress we enjoy is the worst in recent history in terms of ensuring that Spaniards have access to housing. Neither the young people in our country, who have the highest level of unemployment, believe it, nor the older ones, who now see that it will deprive them of what has cost them many years of work and effort to acquire through investment in a real estate to have an economic return. In fact, neither foreign nor Spanish investors see Spain as a safe place to bring their money because they do not see a certain plan to make real estate and housing policy. By 2022 they are proposing an increase in the budget for housing policy of almost 34% more, but we are still waiting for a Housing Plan 2022-2025, which has not gone beyond the public information phase, a project that now we do not even know if we can authorize it to maintain as we already know it or you will have to modify it to start again. The problem is that it is difficult, if not impossible, for this draft budget to actually reach the level of revenue it proposes, which we believe is absolutely fictitious, in order to cover the level of expenditure it raises. And if we add this lack of resources to that lack of planning, then we have a very serious problem and it will continue to affect the Spaniards. Young people and the most vulnerable social sectors will remain without access to housing. The problem is perfectly diagnosed, Mrs. Sánchez, and you know it better than I do. 87% of those born in 1988 and then still live with their parents at the age of twenty-six and only 7% have a home at the age of twenty-nine, four times less than those born in 1976. If we add to this the transfer produced in our society from the property to the rent, with rising prices, especially in cities like Barcelona, and the difficulty or impossibility of saving, derived from it, and if we add to all that a gross salary, which, according to InfoJobs, in 2020 was just over 25 000 euros, it turns out that the average Spaniards had to devote 41% of the full salary to the payment of a typical 80 square meters property for rent. Faced with this, today the great measures announced by the government - I say announced because all we know is that there is an agreement between PSOE and Podemos, but we do not know the letter of it - is that you are going to limit the prices of the rent, you are going to raise the IBI to empty houses and you are going to give a bonus of 250 euros per month to young people who do not exceed a certain income. A rental price limitation that you yourself rejected because it has not worked anywhere - and you said so -; a tax increase that will only serve for the municipalities to collect more without this entailing implementing any kind of local housing policy; and a bonus that will end directly in the tenants' pocket, as many studies show, up to 75% of its amount in cases where such a transfer is given. Those seem to be their solutions. You are aware of the problems that the limitation of rent has generated in European cities such as Berlin or Paris with the contraction of the market when the rental houses are withdrawn. You too know the situation of the country like Sweden, in which many continue to look to establish restrictive measures of rents, when today it is a country that has realized - with tenants who came to add already more than ten years in a queue to obtain a dwelling in lease - that the time has come to begin to deregulate the issue of rents. Mrs Sánchez, you're going late, but the worst part is that you're going the other way. The truth is this, minister: you have to pay a toll for staying in power and that toll is owed to your partners in Esquerra, Podemos, Bildu. But that toll, as always, will be paid by all Spaniards and, above all, those who need access to a home and will have it more difficult with the measures that We have imposed on them, in which, moreover, I am convinced that you do not believe yourself. That is why you will understand our fear and concern about the policies announced if you yourself, from the government, are unable to truly implement them. You have a unique opportunity to put in place effective, functioning housing policies that truly serve to promote access to housing for so many Spaniards who today have that serious problem. This opportunity comes to us from Europe, it comes in the form of European funds for measures announced in the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan; measures with announced funding of almost EUR 25 billion, an amount that the Spanish need to be used adequately in contrasted and effective policies. These policies must also be aimed at the rehabilitation of an old-fashioned housing stock, which needs to meet European standards of decarbonisation and energy efficiency, but we also do not know what concrete measures are going to be taken at this point at this time. The problem with their measures, Minister, is that they will exacerbate the problem because they not only do not put solutions but also try to divert responsibility from the central government to the autonomous communities, and beyond, to the municipalities, when precisely the local entities are the administrations that have the least availability in everything that is budgetary, but that are not their daily and daily competences. Similarly, not only do they not provide solutions through a public-sector housing policy, but they aim to put obstacles on the one sector capable of working and proposing alternatives, such as the private sector. We have to have breakfast tomorrow with the words of Minister Belarus announcing a reservation of 30% of any housing promotion - public or private - for social housing. Man, who reserves 30% of a public promotion sounds weird, because what will you devote the remaining 70% to? Speculating? But in the case of a private promotion it is that the law of soil necessarily already reserves 30% of undeveloped soil and 10% in already urbanized soils. Is 30% more going to be confiscated now? Who is going to promote housing in Spain with this level of burden and legal uncertainty? How are the municipalities going to make up for this additional reservation if, as it seems, they are going to leave it to their decision? Their measures - or what we know about them - minister, are improvisation and announcements, to each one more strambotic according to the minister who poses them. In fact, they have been discussed by socialist leaders, such as Mr Lambán in Aragon or Mr García Page in Castilla-La Mancha, who have already said that this law is neither for them nor for their autonomous communities. Mrs Sánchez, we would have loved from Citizens, and that was our offer from the beginning, to collaborate in the provision of alternatives. You filled your mouth - those who preceded you in the ministry - with words such as consensus or negotiation, but there is none of it. Unfortunately, today we have to settle for transparency in order to know what measures you will adopt alone or put us ahead of you, to know what you will do and how you will spend the European funds we have to receive. We want to know what plans you have, of course what we want to know, and that is the object of this inquiry. But we also ask you to tell us what you really have plans, what plans you will fulfill. Do not talk to us today, please, about plans that will change in a few months or weeks, this is what we have been seeing for a long time. The purpose of this inquiry is precisely to ask you what is going to be done in the area of housing policy, what you are going to spend the money on, but, above all, whether it is the final plan or whether you intend to change it on the move. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-20-CD211020.u147	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] On behalf of the Government, I now give the floor to the Minister for Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-20-CD211020.u148	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr López-Bas, I thank you for the constructive tone of your inquiry, but I also say that it has been difficult for me to find it at some point. You refer to changes of opinion and position in my person. Look, whoever appears here today to answer this question is the Minister of Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda, who speaks on behalf of the Government, who has not changed her mind and who has always been guided by the same principles and the same positioning. It is up to us to ensure that citizens from the public authorities have access to decent and affordable housing. I did so when I held the mayor's responsibility in my city, promoting the smallness of a very important public housing park, with a reserve in sectors of more than 40% destined for public housing and also bringing in and operating the instruments and tools that at that time allowed and allowed the Catalan housing law which, in short, is the same as is allowed through the preliminary draft housing law that we will adopt at the next Council of Ministers on 26 October. Speaking of changes of opinion, Mr López-Bas, it is not you, the Members of the Citizens' Group, who are the most appropriate, the most appropriate to speak of the same. But, focusing on the subject of his inquiry, we are talking about one of the central objectives of this Government's programme: to facilitate access to decent housing for all citizens in accordance with the mandate of article 47 of our Constitution; moreover, a housing that is in a safe and sustainable urban environment, also in accordance with Goal 11 of the Sustainable Development Goals approved by the United Nations and to which this Government is strongly committed. This objective, as you were saying, Mr López-Bas, has received strong support with the reception of the European funds Next Generation, with which, as you know, the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan has been articulated, and in it we include a series of reforms and investments that will allow us a faster and fairer recovery and that includes as one of its main areas of development and action the development of the urban agenda. In the area of housing, if we talk about the urban agenda, two are the biggest deficits that have accumulated in recent decades and that call for urgent attention. First, the age and conservation deficit of our residential park, especially severe in terms of its low energy efficiency and high carbon footprint. For this reason, the Government has launched an ambitious set of actions to promote residential rehabilitation that prioritizes energy efficiency. Secondly, another very important issue, another very important deficit, concerns the continued difficulty of access to housing, especially for the most vulnerable households, for those with less income, and especially for the younger ones. Well, to reverse this trend, this situation, the Government has made a determined commitment to the progressive provision of the social housing stock, thereby increasing the supply of affordable rental housing. We have also made a great effort to support applicants who are most vulnerable and, together with supply and demand policies, we have also paid special attention to regulatory issues by drafting a preliminary draft housing law, which will be the first state housing law in this area aimed at ensuring legal certainty, removing inefficiencies and establishing an adequate basic framework for the autonomous communities, which are the exclusive competent housing communities, to also adopt the most appropriate provisions and programmes in their respective areas and addressing their specific needs. I would also like to detail one of the main causes of difficult access to housing, such as the very limited rental housing stock at affordable prices. In the countries of our environment, in recent decades, since the public administrations have been building or equipping a large stock of housing intended for social rent, with which a housing could be procured for those who needed it most, while also allowing the prices of the free market to be modulated and graduated. In Spain, however, there has been a significant deficit in this area. This fact, in addition to not allowing for the most vulnerable groups with lower income levels or young people, has not allowed the indiscriminate rise in rental prices to be controlled and has unbalanced the market towards the ownership regime. Thus, the social housing park for rent represents in Spain only 2.5% of the total park and if we talk about the public title park, it amounts to only 1.6%. These figures are therefore very far from the countries in our environment, with 30% in the Netherlands or 24% in Austria, ultimately with an average of 10% in the countries of the European Union. Consequently, the prices paid for the rent are much higher in Spain. According to Eurostat data, in our country, 37.4% of citizens who have to pay rent spend more than 40% of their income on these payments. On the other hand, the EU average is 24.2%. Therefore, in order to increase the supply of social housing, we have launched the Housing Plan for Affordable Rent, which aims to enable 100,000 housing units to be offered on affordable rent, through synergies with the various plans and programmes. Firstly, we are going to provide over 45,000 public housing parks with social housing, and secondly, 56 000 housing units will be offered under this affordable rental scheme through consultation mechanisms with different actors. With regard to the first paragraph, the provision of public parks, it was given the figure of 45,000 dwellings. We have already concluded agreements and agreements with the Autonomous Communities, which will contribute 4769 dwellings; agreements with local entities, which will contribute 6805 dwellings - I am talking about existing agreements - and actions in collaboration with the public entity Sepes, which will contribute more than 13 000 dwellings. Also, through the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan, we have a budget of €1 billion to build and promote 20,000 new homes in the autonomous cities of Ceuta and Melilla. In the private sector, 56 000 dwellings are to be offered: agreements with the various financial institutions, 11,000 dwellings; agreements in collaboration with Sareb, 15,000 dwellings, and collaboration agreements with rental managers, 30,000 dwellings. Therefore, we have plans, we have a preliminary draft law, we have measures that make extra support effective for people who have fewer resources, such as those that are articulated through the 2018-2019 Housing Plan, and we have also put in place a new programme - which you know - to facilitate the emancipation of young people, with a bonus of 250 euros per month, aimed at young people aged between eighteen and thirty-five years, for a period of two years and with a certain level of income. Therefore, as I say to you, and I refer to the figures, our commitment to housing policies is total. We have a clear criterion and we have a clear position. The draft law has been drafted as a result of consensus and after months of rigorous and strict work, trying to find that necessary balance in legal security, but also guaranteeing the right of access to housing by the most needy, the most vulnerable, and with special attention to young people. Our budgets, those of 2022, are also historic in this area. We have the biggest game in history: EUR 3290 million. These are budgets that represent a change in order of magnitude with respect to the figures that this ministry invested in stages of the previous Government. Look, we multiplied by seven the budget inherited in 2018, a budget that, by the way, you supported. It had never invested so much in rehabilitation and public promotion to respond to what was a need and a social urgency. It is a housing emergency situation, it is a peremptory need of many families and thousands and thousands of young people whose emancipation we will support with the rental bonus and with all the means at our disposal. We are convinced that housing is also a fundamental pillar of the welfare state. Having a decent home provides a letter of citizenship without which it would be impossible to enjoy other rights such as freedom, security or privacy. And as a regulatory framework, I insist, it will be the housing law that will help us make it possible, expanding our framework of actions and also - I insist - encouraging collaboration between administrations and the private sector. Therefore, we are going to guarantee access to housing for citizens, a right that has been forgotten and that was forgotten by our predecessors over the years. I hope that you, in that constructive spirit which you also announced, understand that we are faced with an urgent and peremptory need and that we need the maximum consensus of the political forces, not because we ask from the Government, but because it is demanded by citizens. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-20-CD211020.u149	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr López-Bas Valero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-20-CD211020.u150	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, see if we share the need for that guiding principle of social and economic policy enshrined in the Constitution to be a reality that is why we are asking you, to really know what you are going to do. I would appreciate it if, rather than making those references to the fact that we are not the best ones to talk about changes of opinion, you would tell us what you think we have changed our mind, because I can tell you, and I have told you before literally, that on September 30 - not before being a minister, being a minister in this government - you literally said - in quotes -: The limitation of rents is a very discussed measure that has not given results and that has given rise to a lot of litigation where it has been applied. You also said that you were betting on tax incentives and deductions that would make the owner attractive to mobilize his home and introduce it into the affordable market. The reason for this inquiry, in addition to coming when it comes to us in turn, is because you have precisely unblocked the negotiation of a budget on the basis that, at last, there is an agreement between PSOE and Podemos on housing. And I tell you one thing: I share a large part of your speech here today; perhaps the one who should be most concerned is your partner in government, who has not heard a single reference to those issues that seem to have entered into the negotiation but which you have not made clear today. But on the other hand, of course, we agree to reach a solution to put in place more social housing that increases the public housing park for the Spaniards. Since then, what we do not agree with is what we have been hearing - and I have told you in the first intervention - through the media, because we do not yet know that legal text to know if that is really going to be achieved, as has been said, through the restriction of other rights to ensure that there is housing. That's something we're not going to agree on. But, look, I told you that my first intervention was to have a constructive and, moreover, sincere and loyal debate. We propose to you to promote effective measures through the State Housing Plan 2022-2025, such as including budgetary resources for the autonomous communities to promote an empty floor harvesting programme for their placing on the market through the protected market; to review the design of the tax deductions provided by the IRPF to encourage more efficiently the placing on the market of rented houses, and to ensure that they are more beneficial for those tenants who include their homes in affordable housing programmes; to create a credit programme for the refurbishing of free market homes, with the commitment by the owners to give up the use to the public administrations for their making available housing programmes under protected price, up to the amount provided by the public sector. We also propose to introduce measures in the housing bill, which is now - as you have said - at the drafting stage, such as ensuring that bail, additional guarantees and monthly payments by tenants are made, in any case, through traceable electronic payments; or establishing the obligation to deposit bail and, where appropriate, additional guarantees in a public housing entity or a private financial entity that prevents access to funds until the termination of the contract and confirmation of the occurrence of defects or, where appropriate, default; or allowing additional bonds and guarantees that may be provided to be financed, with a postponement of their repayment by the tenant through a public entity; or creating a compulsory insurance covering any contingency related to the damage that the home may suffer while it is rented; or also, as a result of the above, eliminating the requirement of a bail payment by the tenant through a public entity; or creating a compulsory insurance that covers any damage-related liability that may be incurred while it is rented; or, as a result of the foregoing, eliminating the provision of a bond in the form of default insurance may be made to an amount of rent. With regard to taxation, set up a 90 % deduction for dwellings transferred to the public administration or third-sector entity for public housing programmes limiting rent rent; create a 70 % deduction in the IRPF for new leases to young people aged between eighteen and thirty-five years in stressed areas, the price of which is equal to or less than that provided for in the housing rental index in its census section; create a 40 % subsidy to deduct costs for the contracting of compulsory insurance for those lessors who set the price of the square meter of the floor at a price equal to or less than that provided for in the housing rental index in its census section; fix, for example, that the costs of real estate management and formalisation of the contract are always borne by the lessor; establish mechanisms necessary for the lessee to be aware of the actual costs incurred, such as the IBI, the insurance contracted for the home, other taxes and fees, which the owner of the property transfers to the income throughout the calendar year. In the area of housing purchase, implement public financing up to 20% of the purchase price of their first home by young people up to thirty-five years. Mrs Sánchez, there are measures, there are many measures that can and should be implemented. We reach out to him so that we can reach a meeting point - as I told him at the beginning - and adopt effective, coherent measures and, above all, that do not harm other rights of the Spaniards trying to guarantee the right to housing. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-20-CD211020.u151	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] To conclude the debate, I have the floor on behalf of the Government, the Minister for Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-20-CD211020.u152	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr López-Bas, I have now found a somewhat more constructive tone for you, but, I insist, there has been no change of opinion on the part of this minister, nor have we presented a preliminary draft law - which, I insist, will be adopted at the next Council of Ministers on day 26 - under pressure. It has been a law drawn up after months of rigorous work, after months of analysis, in which an attempt has been made to find this just, necessary and precise balance between the protection of the right to property and the guarantee of the right to decent housing. We are talking about a law that is going to be very ambitious; a law that is the first - I insist - in the history of democracy, and that is not limited to being a law on rent. Guaranteeing the right to their enjoyment and ensuring the social role of housing obliges the public authorities to avoid distortions and speculative movements, which have occurred so far. Therefore, it is a law that guarantees, it is a law that is addressed by extreme legal rigour and, above all, so that there is no doubt about its constitutionality. We have made progress, because we consider - and should always have been so - that housing is not merely a market asset. And that consideration, Mr López-Bas, does not mean that the right to property is never violated. Ownership, of course, implies rights and the possibility of use and enjoyment, but it also obliges to make appropriate use of it according to its qualification, its state and not to divert it from its interest and social function. Citizens have the right, we have the right to decent housing in affordable conditions. [[Applauds]] A decent home is the one that is habitable, it is the one that is accessible, it is the one that is energy-efficient and with access to basic supplies without its enjoyment implying an unsustainable and insurmountable financial effort. The public park of social housing is to be considered assets subject to permanent protection and cannot be disposed of, as has been the case in the past. Vulnerable people will never again be exposed to situations of material and legal insecurity. Alongside protected housing - in order to advance and anticipate the content of the future law - the figure of affordable housing will be created, which is privately owned, but which can be granted certain urban, fiscal or other benefits, provided that this housing is allocated to rent at reduced prices. It is also clearly defined what an empty dwelling is: those who are unemployed for more than two years in the case of owners with a minimum of four dwellings, for which it is possible for the municipalities to establish a surcharge in the IBI, which is voluntary, up to 150% in the net IBI quota. With the future law will also improve the situation and regulation of evictions in vulnerable situations; effective and rapid communication between judges and legal services will be ensured to protect the most vulnerable; sheltered housing for rent will be encouraged at a limited price; new promotions will limit 30% of urbanized land for these houses; in the case of public land, the minimum percentage intended for rent - when we speak of 50% within that 30% we are talking about rent - will be recorded in these newly created sectors. In tensioned market areas, it will also be declared and applied to the competent administrations by drawing up the action plan to correct these situations. We will also set up systems to contain and lower rental prices in these areas. Price limitation based on the benchmark is not going to be a universal and widespread practice, as there are assumptions in which it will be applied, while in other cases the system of tax incentives will be applied. You have referred to a number of proposals that I appreciate positively, moreover, you announced that some of them are contemplated and we have even made much more progress, but I also trust, and appealing to that constructive spirit to which you referred, in which we can negotiate and agree, because consensus is necessary for the adoption of this housing law. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-20-CD211020.u153	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] - OF THE VOX PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, ON THE MEASURES TO BE TAKEN BY THE GOVERNMENT TO ENSURE THE EXemplARITY OF YOUR MEMBERS. [[File number 172/000147]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-20-CD211020.u154	Urgent inquiry by the VOX Parliamentary Group into the measures to be taken by the Government to ensure the exemplaryness of its members. For your defence, Mrs. Olona Choclán has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-20-CD211020.u155	With venial, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Minister, good morning. The VOX Parliamentary Group, through me, submits to its consideration, on behalf of the Government of Spain, an urgent inquiry into what measures the Government will take to ensure exemplaryness. The Government of Spain and a large majority of this House do not consider that exemplaryness is a value that must and can be demanded of those in public office, to the extent that an increasingly widespread feeling has been transferred to the citizenry: we are governed by criminals. Do you know what message this government and a large majority of this House are sending to the Spaniards? That you, ladies and gentlemen, that you, members of the Government of Spain, are above the law and, worst of all, are above the judgments of the courts. If we come down to the specific case of United We can, party of the Spanish Government in coalition today poorly represented in this House, moral decay has reached such a point that it seems that they demand from their offices the status of defendants or criminals condemned by the justice system in order to gain access to public posts, also in this House. The classics argued that politics is the art of exemplifying. Let's see what his concept of public exemplary is. Isabel Serra, former deputy and exporter of Podemos in the Madrid Assembly, current national spokesman for the extreme left. Ms Serra, in April 2020, was sentenced by the Madrid High Court of Justice to a term of one year and seven months in prison for an offence of assaulting authority and injuries against agents of the Security Forces and Bodies. The Supreme Court ratified that sentence in July of the same year. The sentence gave the impression - and is recorded in the report of proven facts - that the condemned policy was part of the group of people who at the end of an eviction incredulous, insulted and injured the police officers who were watching over the security of the judicial committee. [[The lady]] I understand you're leaving. [[Applauds]] In particular, he insulted an agent of the Madrid Municipal Police in the following terms, which he quoted literally as reflected in the report of proven facts: 'Son of a bitch, whore, bitch, who fucks all the municipal police'. Minister, do you find it unfair to reproduce the facts and expressions by which a coalition government party policy was condemned? 'Shame, if I were your son, I'd have to take a gun and shoot you.' This policy also condemned to the penalty of disqualification to hold public office, do you know where it has been placed by your party, Unidad Podemos? Plugged in as an advisor, a few days ago, to the Pueblo Minister of Equality. Its functions will be to maintain direct contact between the Ministry of Equality, civil society and the feminist movement. A whole example of a feminist seeing how he treats women when they're police officers. [[Applauds]] But in the package of plugs it was not alone, they enter with it, also with destination in the chiringuito of Equality - that it costs to all the Spaniards, I want to remember, 500 million euros, including the payment of more than 3000 euros per month of a babysitter named high charge -, two puemitas, exconsejales in the City of Madrid, imputed precisely for the prevarication and embezzlement of public flows. And I say precisely because one of them has been appointed economic adviser. When We Can fooled the Spaniards, before stepping on the carpet, in 2017, do you know, minister, what your blue-banking companion, the pompite minister of Equality, was saying? I quote literally: 'putting friends may be legal, but it does not stop being corruption.' He forgot to mention that this exemplaryness that Podemos then demanded, promising the assault on the heavens and the fight against the caste, would cease to be valid and enforceable when Podemos himself assumed power and became the true caste. But let us continue with the concept of public exemplaryness of this Government of Spain. Yolanda Díaz, Communist Minister of Labour and Vice-President of the Government of Spain. On his accusation in 2019 for an attack on the authority, for violently attacking an officer of the National Police Corps in the course of a demonstration, I will refer later. [[The lady]] Goodbye, minister. [[Applauds]] On this minister we could highlight that he belongs and advocates a criminal regime such as communism, with more than 100 million people killed throughout his history. We could also point out that, as with all the misfortunes, which never come alone, he has brought with him, taking him to the post of Secretary of State, precisely who is the Secretary General of the Communist Party of Spain, lawyer for rapists and murderers of girls in Colombia. But in this intervention I want to focus on a particular aspect and it is precisely how this minister has falsified her curriculum vitae by recording three masters she never attended and, when discovered in her falsification, Moncloa quickly removed them from her official website. As if by magic, these three official masters have disappeared, but fortunately there is the hemerotheque, also the archives of this House, in which during the XI and XII Legislatures this minister, when she was then a deputy, also recorded in her official curriculum three masters that later turned out to be false. It turns out that the communist minister has falsified the data on her postgraduate training. We caught her, and what happened? Nothing has happened, because Law 3/2015, of the high office, does not go with this Government, although it characterizes as a very serious violation the lack of honorability of this Communist Minister of Labour and consequently foresees its immediate replacement. But the law is for the people. [[Applauds]] Let us continue, because the Government of Spain not only places itself above the law and the judgments of the courts, but also to public offices of its party when they are convicted, and the most important example, recently, we have in this House with the deputy of Podemos condemned for a final sentence just a few days ago by the Supreme Court - how I regret that it is not present today in this House, despite continuing to charge -, condemned for kicking a police officer, for assaulting an officer of the authority. I asked, after knowing that sentence, the vice president communist minister if as leader of Podemos would allow this deputy, who has been convicted of kicking a cop, to keep his seat, Mr Alberto Rodríguez. The question was pertinent, as she anticipates, because precisely this communist minister was personally accused in 2019 for committing against agents of the National Police in the course of a demonstration and, depending on the response of the Government, could be understood and transferred to the Spanish citizenship that the Spanish Government understands the social dialogue. What was the Government's response? I'll sum it up for lack of time. It turns out that the deputy convicted of kicking police officers today retains his status as deputy. He hasn't left the seat. For the Government and the majority of this House there is no reason for it to do so either. And, more importantly, the enforcement of a sentence by the governing body of the House has been put to the vote to achieve this. This is what the Supreme Court itself has described, as we have known only a few hours ago, which has been described as surprising, has been astonished and perplexed - I quote literally - when it has been known that the Bureau of this House, in the face of a conviction which, of course, disenfranchises this Member of the police to be in this Chamber, what he has done is to put his compliance to the vote. Is that surprising? The surprising thing is not that, it is that, in addition to voting, the majority result has been to fail to comply with the sentence and that we have to go to appeal to get him out of his seat. [[Applauds]] But, of course, can you imagine what the mayonnaise deputy convicted of kicking a policeman would have answered if the Bureau had demanded the Minutes? Come on, let's get a little imaginative: I am Mr Alberto Rodríguez and what I answer to the Speaker of the House, Mrs Batet, is how she asks me to resign when we have just heard the ruling of the Constitutional Court that condemns her for having kidnapped Congress for more than a month, violating the control function of this House. And here they go, as if nothing had happened at all. Behind is that Spain in which seventeen hours of kidnapping from Congress was punished with a 30-year prison sentence. [[A lady MP: My mother!]] Without exemplaryity there is no authority, political or moral, and this is how citizenship ends up having the current perception that they are governed by genuine criminals, in a broad sense of the word, because there are politicians who use their position of power precisely to place themselves above the law and the judgments of the courts, thus degenerating our democracy. And you, Minister, on behalf of the Government, are very aware of that. They were conscious when, in order to remain in power, they pardoned those who committed a real coup d'état in Catalonia in 2017. Equipping law enforcement with revenge and the spirit of revenge, they opened prisons for coupsmen sentenced to prison terms of up to thirteen years, because they were politicians, because they needed their support to stay in Moncloa. Because, when there are no principles, ethics or scruples, law, order and judgments are simple life-saving obstacles. They were aware when, after hearing the Constitutional Court's ruling that VOX's appeal and declared illegal the inclusion of Mr. Iglesias in the Commission that controls the CNI, they went over the Constitutional Court, acting as if that ruling did not exist, and what they did was to include Mrs. Yolanda Díaz in that Commission in place of Mr. Iglesias; of course, VOX has appealed it. And they were also aware when, after receiving the largest judicial quagmire in history that a Spanish government is reminded of, as is the ruling of the Constitutional Court that also considers VOX's appeal declaring unconstitutional that hidden state of emergency they imposed on us, what they did the next day - and it was their first public appearance before the media, recently released their appointment as Minister of Justice - was to attack the judges of the Constitutional Court saying that that ruling showed that they had no sense of state. And here, despite all this, no one assumes any responsibility. Tell me, minister, take the opportunity and answer me: what is needed in Spain for a politician of the Socialist Party or the extreme left to resign? You have proved to be immune to financing from narco dictatorships; to the high-ranking nannies with a public salary of more than 3000 euros; to the clandestine suitcases at airports; to the million-dollar rescue of ghost companies; to the sexual abuse of girls under their guardianship; to the insults and assaults of our agents of the State Security Forces and Corpses; to the grossest and most obvious lies; to the pacts with staves and coups, and have extended this moral degradation with which you exercise the noble art of politics to each and every one of the public institutions where you are present. And yes, also in this House. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-20-CD211020.u156	Next, I have the floor on behalf of the Government, the Minister of Justice. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-20-CD211020.u157	Thank you, President. Today, the truth, Mrs Olona, has made it very easy for me, because exemplaryness is to do quite the opposite of what you have done in this rostrum. [[Applauds]] Quite the opposite. Quite contrary to what we have just heard with a loud voice; from his lively voice. Let's start with two premises because the interpellation, the truth, is of a generality that did not well know what you were referring to; then, I have had the opportunity to listen to you very carefully. We're going from the premises. The first is that the Government's spirit is to act with the best possible disposition and with the maximum parliamentary support in the development of public policies. We are not going to fall into pretending to be exemplary; that is not for us to determine. [[Rumors]] What we want is to be fair and we want to manage so that there is a fair recovery in Spain to this situation of economic crisis, social crisis and health crisis, the worst that we have experienced in the last decades of our life experience. The second premise is not even the mark of the Government, the second premise is the rules that we have given ourselves, the rules of coexistence, the rules that mark our Constitution and that also mark the Rules of this House, which belong to the bloc of constitutionality, and the rest of the legislation. The Government owes its position to the confidence of the House, that confidence which, if anything, continues to enjoy today. Well, despite the attempt of his timeless motion of censure failed, an unconstructive motion. And it is likely that that failure of his motion has wandered through their minds ever since as a sort of trauma so as not to offer us a second moment of stubbornness. And now they're telling us to demand exemplaryness. What do you call exemplary? Is it exemplary to incriminate a woman journalist in the corridors of this House by someone who hides in her parliamentary inviolability, who enjoys a privileged position because of this parliamentary inviolability? Is that exemplary? [[applause]] If exemplary is to deploy a social shield to help fellow citizens who may experience deprivation and situations and conditions of very obvious needs - in this case because of the pandemic - then this Government would be, this Government does. If exemplary action is taken to promote equality between men and women, then this Government does and goes the right way. If exemplary is to combat machoism, macho violence with all the strength and energy that someone can be capable of, leaving the skin behind, then this government is champion of exemplaryness, it is in the front line. [[Applauds]] If exemplaryness is based on planting the face of those who sow fear and hatred against certain groups, here is this Government. If exemplary is to address a pandemic by making the greatest deployment of public resources - financial and non-financial -, making very difficult decisions at complicated times, in which we have to rise to and live up to it means understanding the complexity of what we are facing and taking measures that have been considered the best founded to protect the health and life of citizens, yes, this Government acts with correctness. If exemplary is to give social coverage to children, to children in this country who arrive in solitude, and if those who try to criminalize them must be stopped and stigmatized, then this Government is also working on it. If exemplary is to combat child poverty, child violence, here we are, this Government. If exemplaryness is to ensure that everyone has the right to a dignified death, then yes, this Government assumes that struggle as its own, with all the wear and tear it brings. If exemplaryness is to break the heart of those who point fingers at other people, because they are not heterosexual or because they are gay, lesbian, transgender, bisexual or intersexual, then this Government is an agent, another actor in that task. If exemplary is to foster understanding, it is to foster peaceful relations of effective cooperation among all the peoples of the earth, to foster such alliances, to promote multilateralism and with a firm belief in the European project, this Government is working in this direction. If the exemplary view is that Spain is a complex and decentralized State between the different levels of government, and that they must cooperate and respect each other horizontally in search of the common good, this Government is on that path. If the exemplary view is that the citizenship of an urban environment has realities and needs very different from those living in a rural environment, and that the latter must enjoy the same attention from the public authorities, this Government sympathizes with this idea, with this thesis. If exemplary is to deploy an equitable vaccination plan to reach all people, starting with those who are at greater risk, regardless of their economic resources, this Government has also done so. If exemplary is to put all the protection measures of the planet at the forefront of priorities, so that future generations are certain that we did what was in our hand, all that was in our hand, so that climate conditions will be preserved, this Government is making a great effort in this. If exemplaryness is to give today the weight it deserves and to govern a country considering the present, but also considering the future, then this Government understands that it must work in that way. If exemplary is to put the common good, the general interests, before any other interests, this is what this Government does. But let us not be deceived, Your Honor, in all the measures that this Government may consider to be in the right direction, in all that I have just reported, yet we have not had the support of its group. It may be because promoting public freedoms, promoting effective equality and promoting social progress is not worthy and exemplary for you. For a majority of this House, however, it does seem to be. Ladies and gentlemen of VOX, this is a democracy, a bad thing for you. It is not the Government that should take action on the exemplaryness of the Government itself. It is not for the Government to judge whether its action is exemplary or not, whether its action is just or not. The Government can take an idea of its course in what it considers to be a good direction, whether it is planning - as is the case here - whether it is going to make progress, but they are asking the Government to judge over itself what is exemplary or not. And what is worse, let it be judged if it is exemplary on the basis of what you consider to be exemplary. And of course, if in the VOX Parliamentary Group they measure exemplaryness with other standards, because it is impossible for us to agree on what we believe should or should not be exemplary. Is it exemplary to call a deputy a witch and more if she is on the floor? Is it exemplary not to respect the orders, the instructions given since the presidency of this House, when we have a regulation of the House that binds us all and that is of the block of constitutionality? Is it exemplary to try to undermine institutions by jumping the rules of the game? Is it exemplary to insult and disqualify, even personally, to offend for free, and all this only to survive politically, polarizing? Is it exemplary to welcome the vandalization of monuments of people in our history with whom political ideas are not shared? Is it exemplary to attempt ideologically to appropriate those symbols that belong to us all and all, symbols that belong to us all and all and that identify us all Spanish and all Spanish? [[Applauds]] Look, I could almost sense what you think can be exemplary, and there seems to be a certain connection with the idea of morality. And do you think it is exemplary to judge others in moral terms that only you share exclusively? Is it exemplary to request in this House that a decision on the pandemic be taken in a certain sense so that, when that decision is taken, you yourself will resort to it? It does not sound very exemplary to pervert the normal functioning of the institutions of this country. Nor is it exemplary to judicialize each and every one of the actions made by a legitimate Government, out of the ballot box and supported by the parliamentary majority. [[Applauds]] But what exemplaryness - yes, with these gestures of astonishment - can claim who since entering this Chamber, in a sacred place of democracy, a sacred place for the exchange of views, healthy debate, reasoned discrepancy and the worked agreement, has done nothing but to upset, to prejudge, to reproach those who do not think like him? What place is there for exemplaryness between those who demand an alleged righteousness with certain values, but then is discovered over and over again in the absence of those same values? I'm done, ladies and gentlemen. Don't worry, the Government does not take measures aimed at exemplaryness, because each and every one of its measures seeks the best performance of its functions and the greater interest of Spain. And who should judge whether they are worthy of approval or not are the General Courts. And if under any circumstances it is felt that this Government is lacking or in doubt in some aspect and can aspire to more, the work of this House is to demand and debate it, and the Government will correct its action if it is considered to be so. But the exemplary will be the one that points out the vows and not a moral rarity or hollow words. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-20-CD211020.u158	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Olona Choclán has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-20-CD211020.u159	With venial, Mr. President. Minister, really, you have to fall very badly to the person who in Moncloa is in charge of distributing the interpellations, but what very badly, because he does not miss the opportunity to give you the opportunity to make the most horrifying of the ridiculous every time he confronts VOX. [[applause.-Laughter]] I will put aside your provocations, your insults, to focus on the debate, because this is a very important debate. Of his twelve minutes of intervention we have eleven and a half minutes left. The important thing - I quote literally - is that, on behalf of the Government of Spain - it has said literally - we are not going to fall into pretending to be exemplary. [[Applauds]] Thank you, because when I met last night that it was going to be you who was going to have the opportunity to ask - it is an honor, as always, Minister of Justice -, I thought: why are you sending her? Do you want us to talk about the state attorney general? That is why I felt that you could intervene, since yesterday we knew that the Supreme Court has decided not to enter into the merits of the appeal lodged by VOX and by the People's Party against the appointment of Dolores Delgado, because we consider that we lack the active legitimacy to appeal that appointment from the Government. And I thought, will you come to defend the exemplary nature of your State Attorney General, Minister of Justice, who is directly dependent on you? Because you, after taking the Justice portfolio, could perfectly, as you have done with other high offices, have ceased. He was convinced that today he would make an allegation in favour of his Attorney General of the State, of the Attorney General of the State to whom the opposition, with ten million Spaniards, endorsing them with his vows, we consider that it was absolutely immoral - yes, minister, immoral, as well as illegal - to place it at the head of the Attorney General's Office of the State; to whom he had made himself famous by calling a gay person a faggot - I will set aside a colleague of the blue bench, the Minister of the Interior, a person who had made himself famous by saying that he had seen judges and prosecutors of the Supreme Court with minors in Colombia, a person who, as a prosecutor, had made himself famous by saying and voicing what he called vaginal information, or by saying that he preferred the courts with uncles. Where does that leave us as women, minister? I'm asking you as a toned policy. [[Applauds]] But beyond those considerations, we are talking about a state attorney general who has made history in Spanish politics, it has been because she is the only minister who has treasured a greater number of reprobations, by this House and by the Senate, the minister with the greater number of improbations treasured. [[applause]] These were the arguments that both the People's Party and VOX made in our appeal, which, unfortunately, has not been answered, although I also say to you, Minister, that you do not feel very calm because we are going to appeal to the Constitutional Court. And above all we considered that it was not exemplary, minister, to place in the chair of the Attorney General's Office of the State who, without a solution of continuity, had until the previous day occupied the post of Minister of Justice with a socialist government, attending socialist political acts during the campaign, because it is necessary to maintain impartiality; and you, who today openly confessed that you will not pretend to be exemplary - I quote literally - transferred a very clear message to the citizen with that appointment. Today, my dear Hermann Tertsch recalled it on his social networks: appointing Dolores Delgado as the state's attorney general, the Spanish government made it very clear that they were willing to do anything. They stood above the law, they stood above the judgments of the courts, but, above all, they turned their backs on exemplaryness! This exemplaryness that has been agreed to graphically define with the expression 'complying with the law is necessary, but not sufficient'. What is serious is that in his case, in the case of the Government of Spain, they do not even attend to these minimum standards of compliance with the law and the judgments of the courts. So, I hope - since you do not answer me, Minister - that you will at least answer this question: What is the reason why you were sent today to answer this question? Is it to defend the Attorney General of the State - Attorney General of the State - Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-20-CD211020.u160	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] To conclude the debate, the Minister of Justice has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-20-CD211020.u161	Of course, in the ridiculous parliamentarian you are indeed exemplary, the truth. [[Applauds]] How will we - you and the government - agree on what is or is not exemplary? I've said it before. You criticize from ridicule, from banality and, worst of all, from personal attack and lack of respect for specific people, with names and surnames. You criticize when one thing is done, and if, by chance, the opposite is done, you also criticize it. I believe that something which I am particularly concerned about must be highlighted: the involution of political discourse, the involution in the recognition of rights and freedoms, which hinders the progress of our country; the persistence in discourses that justify sexism, that justify racism, that justify xenophobia, that justify homophobia, that justify other forms of discrimination. [[Applauds]] That involution in that political discourse is what worries me. And I am concerned about their denial of gender-based violence, their denial of climate change, their attempt to constantly wage a cultural and discourse war on these issues - yes, consistently - speeches that try to make it look neutral, such as this object of their interpellation, which seemed neutral and yet we have already heard how they deny reality, how they use it and twist it, how they defend reactionary approaches, because that prevents us from moving forward, that prevents us from moving forward in our society, that breaks it; that breaks it, and we have to denounce it, and we have to say it. And this, what we have just heard, is an example of that empty debate that brings nothing to politics, that brings nothing to the crisis we are experiencing, that brings nothing to citizens to get ahead, to move forward, that does not contribute to the construction of our country, that does not contribute to people's lives. You practice useless politics, parasitic politics that live from problems, without offering a solution. But you need those problems to continue to exist, because otherwise, you would not be able to live politically. That's their political survival. They also live from other problems that artificially create. The truth - I have to tell you, Mrs Olona - is that it is very sad to see how you oppose yourselves. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-20-CD211020.u162	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] - THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, ON THE SUBSIDY OF TAXES TO FAMILY AND SPANISH ENTERPRISES IN 2022. [[File number 172/000148]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-20-CD211020.u163	Urgent inquiry by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress into its tax increases to Spanish families and companies in 2022. For your defence, Mrs. Spain Queen has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-20-CD211020.u164	Thank you very much, President. Your Honor, in The Art of War, Sun Tzu wrote that when resources are exhausted, taxes are collected under pressure, and when power and resources are exhausted, the country itself is ruined. Madam Minister, this socialist communist government again makes the same mistakes as it did the previous year; it rains on wet. The government has already lied to us with this year's forecasts, disheartening the Banco de España and the AIReF, and in April it was forced to review growth downwards, from 9.8% to 6.5%, and the deficit upwards, from 7.7% to 8.4%. And on 23 September, just two days after the government ratified the macroeconomic picture, the INE carried out a downward economic growth review, from 2.8% to 1.1% in the second quarter, that is to say, the robust growth that the government has so tainted. And now history is repeating itself, Your Honor; with regard to the budgets of 2022, no one understands that the government maintains the macroeconomic picture that serves as the basis for the preparation of budgets, although all national and international agencies are reviewing downwards the growth estimates of the Spanish economy, as the BBVA has just done, which reduces the government's forecast for the year 2021 from 6.5% to 5.2%, almost half of what you said in December, and for 2022 from 7% to 5.5%. We start from unreal budgets that are wet paper or, which is the same, the budgets of the Government of lies. Madam Minister, you do not change the macro picture because that is the government's strategy, to reach a certain level of spending to square then to hammer. They build the house of budgets on the roof of spending, they spend much more than we have; in three years, 2020, 2021 and 2022, the government is going to accumulate a deficit of almost 30 billion euros that, in the words of its boss, Calviño, will pay our children and our grandchildren. Only in high offices does the communist socialist government cost us 108 million euros more a year than with the last government of the People's Party, I repeat, 108 million euros, 15% more. And while, families, self-employed and businesses have to adjust their belts, paying more taxes and bearing higher prices for the disorbited and disproportionate rise in light. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, the Government continues to mock the Spanish without making the slightest adjustment in their unproductive spending, a policy of unbrained spending that reproduces Mr Zapatero's irresponsible prescriptions, which led us ten years ago to the bankruptcy of the Spanish economy. A public debt, minister, to historical maximums, 1.4 billion euros - with be - 125,3% of GDP. And why do we want so much debt? To buy votes. While you distribute 400 euros to each young person for the expenses that the government says, you at the same time endorse to the Spaniards an additional debt of 5350 euros per person since the government of Sánchez. But let's talk about taxes; those taxes that this communist socialist government wanted to raise to the rich - remember that phrase of not going to raise taxes either to the middle classes or to the workers?-, the budgets of 2022 incorporate a tax increase of more than 4 billion euros, within a planned increase of 17 billion of the tax collection, and that which the government conceals until next year the great fiscal hack that it has committed to Brussels, which are the tolls for the use of roads, the rise of the diesel, the suppression of the reduction by joint taxation and new increases of contributions for the self-employed, that we already know that they are not taxes, but that they also have committed to Brussels. Look, $4 billion in fiscal punishment in 2022. It is that there are hidden tax increases: 2 billion of the increase approved in the budgets of 2021 - to be remembered, IRPF, companies, sugar drinks, insurance premiums -, 1352 million green taxes - the tax on waste and plastics of one use -, a new twist of nut to the pension plans, that is, they reduce the limit of the contributions of 2000 to 1500 euros, when I remind them that it was 8000. Are these the rich, the ones who are deducted between 2000 and 1500 euros from pension plans? Moreover, a 20% increase in enrolment tax, thanks to the PNV, everything has to be said, because we managed to stop the rise, but the PNV said that only until 31 December - of course, the favors have to be paid -. And then the minimum corporate tax rate at 15%. Congratulations, Minister, you have managed to deceive even your partners of Podemos and apply so much percent on the taxable basis, because what the communists were asking was lethal to our companies. So, congratulations, minister, because this government of lies deceives even its governing partners. Although, of course, when it comes to pardoning a deputy from Podemos, convicted of assaulting the police, you bend to the most radical communists. [[Applauds]] Minister, I ask you: do you commit here, in the Congress of Deputies, that the only tax increase in 2022 is the collection in the budgets? Or when the experts finish the report, in February 2022, are they going to raise taxes again? We already know that the aim of this social-communist government is to raise the levy by EUR 80 billion, 37%, claiming that Spain's fiscal pressure is below the European average. But, Minister, talk about fiscal effort, which takes into account the per capita income of wages. There, in fiscal effort, we are the OECD quarters. And since you stay in the government for a long time, we will be the first; but not the first in employment, the first to pay taxes. Quite the opposite of what Draghi is going to do in Italy, which is going to do a tax reform to mitigate the pressure and lower the income tax. In other words, the tax haven in our country is an absolutely ideological issue. But the real fiscal hack is going to be done to the middle and working classes. Comparing the government's projected revenues for 2022 with those of 2019, it turns out that corporate tax collection increases by €744 million, by 3%, and the collection by the IRPF that households pay increases by €13,240 million. That is, EUR 700 million against EUR 13 billion. This is a brutal attack on families, middle classes and working classes. Two out of three new Euros collected are paid directly by families through the IRPF. And this is the true thyme of the left, Minister: while they give the young 400 euros, in a total of 200 million, they are taking away the parents 13,240 million euros. [[Applauds]] That's the real face on the left. I'll give you 200 million euros and I'll take 13 200 euros. This is choking parents to buy their children, this is impoverishing the middle class, and this is cheating on young people that what they want is a job. By the way, according to the IMF, the unemployment rate for 2022 will remain above that for 2019, with a youth unemployment rate of 35%, which doubles that for the eurozone. That is, you increase spending unorthodoxly, you have European funds and you are not able to create jobs. The PSOE in pure state. And what is the government's response? So raise the contributions of the self-employed between 96 and 225 euros in 2022. Conclusion, Minister, Social Communism is incompatible with the self-employed and with job creation. We continue with the costs of light. We have never heard her complain about the rise of light. But how will you complain if you are collecting for VAT, for excise duty and for the rest of the taxes, billions of euros, the biggest collection in history. You are making box at the expense of desperate families and paralyzed factories. But it is so brutal the rise of light, that Pedro Sánchez's promise that the bill would be the same as in 2018 is impossible to fulfill already, nor by giving the electricity in what is left of the year, minister. And the IPC absolutely out of control. Milton Friedman said inflation is a tax without legislation. Look, inflation is a tax on the poor and you came here to raise taxes on the rich. And we're still with the taxes. Catastrazo Montero, changes the reference value of the properties and will raise taxes on estates, property transfers and assets. That is why we are voting against the bill to combat tax fraud. Minister, has the government lied to Brussels or has the government lied to all Spaniards? Answer me, Minister. The annex to the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan sent to Brussels contains the establishment of a payment mechanism for the use of State roads; the abolition of the joint tax reduction; and the rise in property taxes and inheritances and donations. By the way, will you again implement the inheritance and donation tax in Andalusia, which has eliminated the People's Party and which you did not do when you were a counselor? Are you going to punish the 8,000 Andalusian families who had to give up their inheritance every year because they couldn't pay the tax? We continue: revision of the subsidies for hydrocarbons, i.e. increase of taxes on diesel; increase of the contributions of the self-employed and gradual increase of the maximum bases of contribution. All this, Minister, is contained in the document you have sent to Brussels. So does the government lie to Brussels, Minister, or does the government lie to the Spanish? Make an effort and tell some truth in this government of lying. I finish, Minister, budget prisoners - I told you last year -. Mr Otegi - I open quotes -: 'If the two hundred prisoners are to be released, the budgets must be voted on, we will vote on them'. Mrs Montero, to change prisoners for budgets is to lose all political and moral dignity, if any. [[Applauds]] And, Your Honor, you're also the most responsible of SEPI. Have you given orders to eliminate SEPI's planning and control unit, as happened this summer? Do you agree with Mr. Ábalos, who said he did not know the Plus Ultra file, and then declared it a State secret? Are you an accomplice to Mr. Ábalos, Minister? Madam Minister, you are running, and sooner or later you, Mr Ábalos and Mrs Calviño will have to give many explanations for the Plus Ultra case and SEPI; at the end, sooner or later, you, as Minister, will have to assume your responsibility. I ask you to answer some of the questions, and, if possible, to tell me some truth. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-20-CD211020.u165	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] I now give the floor on behalf of the Government to the Minister for Finance and Public Service.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-20-CD211020.u166	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mrs. Spain, your group's interrogations are getting thinner every day. In addition, you could save yourself getting up to the rostrum every day: he has said exactly the same thing you have been repeating since the first day when, at least, I took charge of the Ministry of Finance. Nothing new on the horizon: the same canteens, the same mantras, the same lies, the same accusations without any foundation and the same way of practicing a political culture, which, of course, I do not share, so I am not going to live up to this kind of debate, which does not deserve the citizens or the ladies and gentlemen who are in this House today. [[Applauds]] I cannot understand that in an approach which the Government calls on the fiscal side we have to listen to questions about terrorism, when, after ten years, democratic society is celebrating the end of ETA. Madam Spain, do we have a nostalgic People's Party, which is not happy with the cessation of violence, which is not happy that society has made an unprecedented effort to try to solve a problem that has caused so much pain and suffering? How far are you going to handle terrorism for your own electoral interests? [[Applauds]] Rejoice, and stop using the pain of the victims, the pain of terrorism, to come to remind us of what fortunately ten years ago democracy was able to overthrow and overcome and not continue to give permanent loudspeakers to those who do not believe in reconciliation. Therefore, Your Honor, it seems to me that today any inquiry by the People's Party is utilitarian, it considers everything less than it is, that is, trying to see how everyone is able to contribute to society as a whole. Moreover, Your Honor, you do not do this by seeking answers, if you do not listen to me, something for which you do not need to go back to the rostrum, because you can put past interventions in which you have repeated exactly the same thing with the same words. And you have not read the draft budgets, Mrs Spain, you have not read what the public accounts bring, because the People's Party is not interested in the budgets for 2022. The People's Party on the same day that the government approves the budget for 2022 takes the microphone and begins to say that the budget is a lie, a fiscal hack, a rise to the middle classes and that it crushes the workers. But if you hadn't read it to him! You pull argumentary and mantra, and therefore are not credible either in the criticism or in the approaches you make simply because they are lies; and with data and figures I will try to refute the lie. By the way, Mrs Spain, coming from the People's Party, I find it even unsound and shocking that you think that there are collectives in the society to which you can buy. Mrs Spain goes up to the rostrum and says that this Government, by the measures it is putting in place for young people, is buying the vote of young people. Your Honor, there is no greater contempt for a collective than talking about buying votes. [[Applauds]] You can't say that. How can you talk about buying votes from others? Do you think young people are fools and let themselves be bought? And you have said things that are radically false. It has not been possible to demonstrate that the draft budgets contemplate what you call a fiscal haze or haze. You have had to say things like, well, we'll see what happens when the paper is presented by the expert committee. Your Honor, aren't we talking about the 2022 accounts? Are the adjustments made for 2022 fiscal shambles? So can you tell me how to qualify Mr Montoro's tax reform for an additional 15 billion in revenue, and without going overboard? What do you call what Mr. Montoro did? Isn't that a tax haven? Is that what we had to try to raise more for Zapatero's inheritance? Are we not left with the assumption of the People's Party that, with lower taxes, higher collection? [[Applauds]] So why do you raise taxes when you need more collection? [[Applauds]] Because it's a lie, Your Honor, because one and the other affirmation is simply a lie. But you continue to use in political discourse what I have come to call fiscal populism. You want to make society believe that it is much better that we all live without taxes, that is, it is much better that the policy of saving anyone can be practiced, that the one who has economic capacity will have private health, private education, attention to dependence, and that the one who does not have it there with his luck, who would have had it. That would be the conclusion and the summary of what you, Mrs Spain, and your colleagues are moving from the rostrum over and over again. By the way, they also say so from the perspective of the autonomous governments where you lower taxes. Without any indecentness, you lower taxes and tell the Spanish government that it steals them or does not behave well in the territory where you have fallen by lowering taxes. [[Applauds]] Yes, I already know you practice that political hypocrisy, Mr. De Olano. Therefore, it is not going to surprise me, but for the citizens you have to unmask that strategy, because, if you lower taxes, I understand that it is because you do not need any more resources. Or are you dismantling the welfare state? Or do you deliberately weaken the public to prove that it is unsustainable and therefore give way to private initiative? Is that what this is about? [[Applauds]] Some of that was said by Mrs. Díaz Ayuso last week in the Community of Madrid. He said, "We can't give education to everyone because it's not sustainable." What can I give you, Your Honor? Is having a universal public education system for all citizens a gift from Mrs. Díaz Ayuso? Do those families who have no income have to receive as a gift the possibility that their children will prosper? Does public health not allow all people to be cared for, regardless of the level of income, and therefore with access to all the technology that allows them to be cured? What is that, Your Honor, a generous gift? Or is it a right of citizenship? Or is it a welfare state? Or is it a social contract to which all citizens owe us and with which we have shielded ourselves, at least constitutionally, so that we can have equal opportunities on basic issues: health, education, dependency, access to housing, free justice, unemployment benefits, pensions? Are all those gifts for the People's Party? [[Applauds]] That's right, then you prefer a deduction in the IRPF so that for those who subscribe to private insurance, have private English classes or buy school uniforms apply a tax deduction that we pay among all Spaniards. Is that the model of the People's Party? Otherwise, it is not understood that whenever he is in opposition over and over again he expresses the mantra that taxes are bad and, therefore, if possible, what needs to be done is to eliminate tax figures. You are proselytizing the elimination of tax figures and your whole speech is based on it. By the way, Mrs Spain, when we talk about the three adjustments in the budgets, like 15% in corporate tax, what are we left with, it's a tax scam or I'm cheating on my partners? Or am I so skilled that I do both at the same time? What are we left with? Is it really a measure that, in your opinion, is going to ruin the productive fabric or is it that I have stayed with my partner? It is that you say both things in the same speech from this rostrum, but you will understand that they are not compatible. Turns out you say it's a ruin to go from 2000 to 1500 euros in the individual contribution to pension plans. According to you, that's a barbarity, a fiscal hack, a fiscal hell and a ruin. So I ask you again, Mrs.Spain: When Mr. Montoro took steps to raise the levy by 15 billion, and rose the IRPF and VAT fifty times, what do we call it, because we have already run out of adjectives? After all the superlatives, what do we call it? Did you share it? Or do you think Mr. Montoro is the worst? They have no consistency, ladies and gentlemen. That's the problem, you don't have consistency. [[Applauds]] Therefore, with regard to the public accounts - of course, if you do not care and continue to make the same speech, nothing happens - you will see that these are exactly the fiscal measures that I have just put forward. You say no, there are four billion new tax measures, but, Mrs Spain, I repeat that you have not read the budget if you say so. What is happening is that you probably don't care to give false data, not to tell the truth, either, because, in the end, in what you are in the same canteen with which you started to oppose in this legislature, the canteen that you are the good ones in economic matters, when this government has demonstrated with this budget a reduction of the deficit by 5%, the reduction of the debt by four points - which you did not do during all the years that Mr Rajoy ruled -, when he raises budgetary stability, he is able to meet the needs of people, promotes a fair recovery and makes this country progress, modernises and anticipates the challenges of the future.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-20-CD211020.u167	Your Honor, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-20-CD211020.u168	I'm done, Mr. President. When you are left without arguments to sit down and talk to this government and hold your shoulder at the hardest moments that Spanish society has suffered in recent years, you are dedicated to going up to this rostrum to criticize, lie and not tell the truth; in short, to remain spectators, because, as your leader said, 'let Spain fall, that we will already raise it'. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-20-CD211020.u169	Thank you. I give the floor to Mrs. Spain Queen. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-20-CD211020.u170	Thank you very much, President. Minister, you never say anything new, the usual thing about the left: massive tax increases. And if it bothers you about the budget prisoners, don't deal with Bildu. [[Applauds]] And that the budgets are fictitious I don't tell you, the AIReF, the Banco de España, the BBVA and the IMF tell you. And, of course, with regard to buying young people, you have not read the press this weekend. Minister, don't talk to me about health. When you were a counselor, you had the lowest per capita health expenditure in all of Spain. And don't tell me lies because you have the record; you lied with the remnants, with the VAT of the masks, with the return of VAT to the autonomous communities; record of lies. [[Applauds]] The biggest cut in the welfare state was made by a socialist, Rodríguez Zapatero, who made the biggest tax increase and the biggest social cut in democracy, and Sánchez approved it. And such was the ruin that let the People's Party arrive in 2012 nothing else had to raise taxes, but with a difference, and I will explain it to you, to see if it already finds out at once: Zapatero went up taxes after seven years in the government to cover his own deficit and the PP went up them in 2012 to cover the deficit that the socialists left, as always; I insist, as always. [[Applauds]] And as soon as we could, in 2014 we lowered taxes; and not to the rich, minister, those who earned less than 14,000 euros and the working class. You communist socialists came to the government to tax the rich, but it turns out that with sugary drinks you have collected twice as much as in the high sections of the IRPF. The left came to raise taxes to the rich, but it turns out that the rich are now the only ones who can put the washing machine and the heating, minister. And he hasn't answered me. Has the government lied to Brussels? Yes or no? Has the government lied to the Spaniards? Yes or no? He said that the toll on the use of roads was a reflection, but now we know that they are in a hurry to apply it and they call it tariffing. Are these taxes on the rich? What little credibility! I'd be ashamed of myself! Abolition of the reduction by joint taxation, is it a mistake? Yes or no? Up from the diesel, yes o'no?, because it is sent to Brussels. Assignment of inheritance: Brussels is sent. Minister, what have you signed or are you going to sign with Brussels? Why do they hide the compliance agreement with Brussels from the Spaniards? The government of lies, the government of obscurantism and the government of tax robbery! The Spanish do not deserve this government, which is a danger to the economy and the pocket of the citizens. As for Plus ultra, you launched the rescue with 53 million euros, not counting the legal and financial mandatory reports. She is the highest political leader of SEPI. All the procedures were skipped so that the money would quickly reach the friends of the Government. Did you give the order to remove the planning and control unit? He hasn't answered anything. Why have you so often vetoed the appearance of the president of SEPI? What scandal do you want to hide? Are they going to award the European funds as they did with Isofoton in Andalusia, as they did with Plus Ultra, as happened with the EREs, which spent the money of the unemployed in brothels? Is that the model you've exported from Andalusia? Is that why you've removed the control address? Is it true that Ábalos lied, with his complicity and that of the government, saying that he did not know the file and that he hides the operation by declaring himself a State secret? Did you know that? Are you an accomplice to Abalos? Are you going to answer anything, Minister? SEPI depends on you and one day you will have to assume your responsibility. Finally, do you remember when you told him that you wanted to stay with the remnants of the town halls, which the Congress knocked him down? He was then talking about the parents removing the hatchet to the children; now it's the other way around, you suffocating the parents to give the children a 400 euros help. It's demolishing, Minister. And they lie constantly: He will never deal with Bildu; he would never sleep quietly with Podemos in the government. And like that, everything: the government of lies. You're going to make the biggest tax bust of democracy. Zapatero ruined Spain and you are on your way to overcoming Zapatero. But don't worry, we're going to bring this country back from the ruin in which the socialists always leave it. And the People's Party will do it by the hand of Pablo Casado, because, as our president says, the Spaniards will have a job when Pedro Sánchez and you lose yours; and that is as soon as possible for the good of this country. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-20-CD211020.u171	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] The Minister for Finance and Public Service has the floor to conclude the debate.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-20-CD211020.u172	Thank you very much, Mr President. Let us see, Mrs Spain, whether I am able to give you the reply without throwing myself into the mud, as you do; without resorting to questions that are infamy, as you do, and trying to maintain the respect of the ladies and gentlemen who are in this House. [[Applauds]] Let's see how I do it, because it is curious to have to listen, with that nostalgia of ETA in which you live today - psychologically, you have to make it look at - that you are missing certain issues that probably cause and have caused the most important pain that our society has had at the democratic stage. If you talk with some qualifiers about how this government deals with or stops negotiating with Bildu, what do you have to say to Mr Aznar about when he was talking about the Basque liberation movement, Mrs Spain, when ETA was killing? [[Applauds]] Now that democracy has defeated ETA, do we have to be listening to these comments you make from the rostrum, Your Honor? Are you really still anchored in that past? Oh, you don't hear me? I think I'm speaking with absolute clarity. We must therefore put aside those issues which, in my view, are not democratically clear or transparent, so that the citizens can know what we are talking about. What are we left with, Mrs. Spain? During my time in Andalusia, was I responsible for the biggest cuts or tax cuts? Was it a waste of public spending or now it turns out she was the main promoter of austerity? It's just that you're not clear about what criticism you want to make of me. Now, if what you want to say in Mr Montoro's mouth is that while I was advisor to Hacienda Andalucia met the stability objectives, yes, Mrs Spain, Andalucia met the stability objectives. [[Applauds]] Therefore, let us not speak of something different from what is the object of this inquiry, because you have again fallen into the same contradiction in this rostrum. You had no choice but to raise taxes in 2012 to avoid the evils, the ruin that Mr Zapatero had left behind. I repeat to you again, Mrs Spain, isn't the popular party's thesis that when taxes are lowered, the collection goes up? When did you need to raise the claim lower taxes? Oh, that's right! And how do you eat that, Your Honor? You lower taxes and, according to you, raise the collection, but when you need more collection you raise taxes, 15 billion!, and you stay so panchos. Do you know why, Your Honor, and I'm not talking to you? Because it's a lie. [[Applauds]] It is a lie that tax cuts lead to increased collection. By the way, Mrs. Spain, as far as what you say about who we are cheating on, because you don't care what you're told and you're always looking for conspiracy, deception, all that you're showing in this gallery, do you know that on the website are absolutely all the agreements, date, of the reforms that this government is going to push in agreement with Brussels? Do you know that Friday - I probably don't know - was sent the budget plan to Brussels with the stability objectives committed and that it is published on the website? Do you know that? As you speak of misleading and concealing information that is sent to Brussels, did you know that all this information is published and available to all citizens? It's just that you lie again on matters as demonstrable as what I've just said to you. And, therefore, Your Honor, neither trap nor cardboard as it stands. [[Applauds]] As far as SEPI is concerned, I do not know exactly what you are asking me about units, but I will tell you that demonising aid to companies, condemning workers and civil servants, public employees about aid to companies is very serious for a party that rules in autonomous communities. What would happen if some Lordship of this House began to cast doubt, infamy and lies on the aid being granted by the autonomous communities to businesses and self-employed people?
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-20-CD211020.u173	Your Honor, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-20-CD211020.u174	I'm on my way. What do you think if we now produce, overall, a process of demonisation so that no one here gives any help to a productive sector that is requiring public authorities? Is that what you're trying to do, Your Honor? They don't count on this government. [[Applauds]] This government will continue to work rigorously, will respect the work of public employees, will use the control mechanisms, as always, for the evaluation of resources... [[Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-20-CD211020.u175	Your Honor, you must finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-20-CD211020.u176	In short, ladies and gentlemen, we are going to keep hoisting our shoulders to lift this country. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-20-CD211020.u177	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-20-CD211020.u178	We continue with the motion resulting from the urgent interpellation of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress so that the Government can explain how the main variables included in the macroeconomic picture have been affected by the latest known data, as well as the measures it intends to take to compensate for their impact on our economy. For the author group of the initiative and for the defence of the motion, Mr Castellón Rubio has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-20-CD211020.u179	Thank you very much, President. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. Mrs. Montero's leaving. Now I'll tell you a few things, since the truth is that she, who didn't want to go down into the mud, makes it difficult, because the person who lives permanently in the mud makes it very difficult. Today from the Group of the European People's Party we present this motion as a result of the interpellation made by my group's spokesman last week to the Vice-President of the Government, an interpellation resulting from the growing concern of the economic policy being carried out by this Government; a concern which is shared by a large part of Spanish society and which also shares a large part of the economic actors, who observe how the major decisions on economic policy of this Government are the protagonists of them, born of the initiative of Podemos. It is an unprecedented situation, which also implies the loss of any political relevance of Vice-President Calviño, whom Pedro Sánchez has relegated to the role of listener in the Council of Ministers; a policy also accomplished with the embrace by the PSOE of the postulates belonging to the most radical left and the abandonment, therefore, of the positions that social democracy has been deploying in our country over the past forty years. It is true, ladies and gentlemen, that we have a government that is unable to propose solutions to the real problems of the Spanish people, to the real problems of families and businesses; that is unable to curb the escalation of light prices, which is impoverishing families and penalising the competitiveness of our SMEs. A government unable to offer a solution to the loss in the purchasing power of the families, which sees with resignation how the shopping basket is increased every day that passes, without that being the least priority for Pedro Sánchez. A government that that 38% of unemployed young people, instead of offering them opportunities in the labour market, reforms, what it offers them, to what it invites is popcorn in the cinema. A government that pays more attention to how to distribute European funds among consultants more or less friends than to the enormous problems that the self-employed have today, of which, however, they do agree when social contributions have to be raised. An irresponsible government, which is absolutely far from the street. In circumstances where the General Budgets of the State should be a real lever for economic recovery, a fiscal policy aligned with growth and job creation, we find however how the Government of Pedro Sánchez uses it with a very different dual function. On the one hand, to pay off their mortgages and their pacts with the independenceists and Bildu, even if that would seriously harm the rest of the Spaniards. By the way, what Mrs Montero said is very serious. My group, my party, the People's Party, is indeed happy with the end of ETA, what gives us no laughter is to see the Spanish government kneeling before the murderers, their successors and offering with champagne with the lords of Bildu in Congress; that does not give us any laughter. [[applause]] And on the other hand, they use the budgets to, through the back door, bring about a change in our unprecedented economic and social model, a profoundly ideological change that seeks more state intervention and less free society, a change for which economic recovery is an absolute excuse, is an alibi, because the ultimate goal is to achieve a dependent society, a society protected by the state, where the same state is above the individual and his freedoms, where the middle classes have to bear - at the cost of their taxes, as we have done in Andalusia for forty years - the excessive expenses of elephantic governments, which starred Mrs Montero and which now Mrs Montero also starred in the Government of Spain. [[applause]] Perhaps this is why the Government formulates general State budgets without the minimum necessary rigour, budgets that condemn young people to be imprisoned for the adjustments they are about to make and for the rigour that they will have to endure in the future as a result of the structural imbalance that the lords of the PSOE are introducing in public finances. Because today, ladies and gentlemen, there is an expenditure-free bar, but acting as if the tax rules did not exist is an absolute fear that this country cannot afford. That is why we in the People's Group are presenting this motion, because the Government has an obligation to act responsibly by presenting a realistic macro picture and of course not to rectify it at four months, because the Government has an obligation to make public accounts that do not condemn our finances to deficit and debt, otherwise it is a tremendous mistake that we are going to pay in the very near future, and because the Government has to respond to the recommendations of the AIReF and the Bank of Spain and urgently draw up a plan for the rebalancing of our finances that will bring economic growth into line with responsibility for future generations. Ladies and gentlemen, until Pedro Sánchez landed in Moncloa, the credibility of any government was an asset, it represented the credibility of an entire country, it was the certainty that created stability for investors. But this Government has decided that it will not be predictable, that it will give up being credible because it will not tell us the truth or when it is wrong. How are we going to believe, if not, a government that makes budgets that are based on numbers that, at first, everyone warns that they are not sustained, rectified by the INE, by the AIReF, by the Banco de España, by the IMF? Yesterday, without going any further, the BBVA study service lowered the growth estimate by 20%, by 5.2% for this year and by 5.5 for next year. Or how are we going to believe a government that calls for just recovery to suffocate families with taxes: sugary drinks, insurance, diesel, plastics, Internet shopping, and now tolls on highways? Are they taxes on the rich? Is this PSOE's fair recovery for families? Why are you lying to us, gentlemen of the PSOE? Why do they always lie to us? Do they not realize that they are destroying the credibility of an economy like the Spanish one, that millions of investments and thousands of jobs are being put at risk, ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE? I end by recalling one thing that our spokesman pointed out last week, and that is that you are negotiating this week with the European Commission the document containing the indicators of compliance on the measures and reforms that Spain will have to implement in order to receive European funds on time. Tell us why you don't want to make that document public. Tell us if on that route that Pedro Sánchez is designing in this country there will be more taxes and if there will be cuts and what cuts will be. It would be good if, even if with half-truths, we were to learn of the true intentions of this Government which has made rectification, deception and concealment the most outstanding qualities of its policy. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-20-CD211020.u180	Thank you very much, Mr. Castellón. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] In defence of the amendments put forward by the VOX Group, Mrs Cañizares Pacheco has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-20-CD211020.u181	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, this government only knows how to spend and lie, and the better. And to justify itself, it maintains a perpetual marketing campaign based on social, cross-cutting and resilient. They'll want to leave a green country, but with some bright red beads. They say they care about the climate future, but not so about the financial future and hence the obscene mortgage they will leave our children and grandchildren for inheritance. The government's goal is always a flight forward and we see it in the general budgets of the feudal government in which the predominant verbal time is the uncertain future, all very much in the Zapatero style, which by the time Spain breaks will already enjoy its golden retirement. The Government's desire to join the power will pass the bill to the Spaniards, who will pay it face-to-face in these budgets prepared to continue generating inequality, so as not to leave behind any of Sánchez's friends. The minister said they'll keep hoisting their shoulders. No, what they will continue to pull is the ascua to their sardine and to please the nationalists and the separatists. And the finding of these assertions is reflected in the government's refusal to review its macroeconomic assumptions for the preparation of budgets, much in spite of data on the INE gross domestic product of the second quarter and much in spite of the growth review of the International Monetary Fund and all study services. Because this government reviews only past history to tell it in its own way and to invent a future at its own convenience. [[Applauds]] The government does not rectify despite the evidence, let us remember how much they said last year that we will grow in 2021 with European funds: almost 10%. Well, we won't even get to 6%. By the way, where are the €27 billion promised? Another Sánchez fantasy has become utopian. But the reality is that we do have an unemployment rate of more than 15%, an increase in the contributions of the self-employed, road tolls, a terrifying bill of light and the intervention of the real estate market to tell the small savers that in addition to their children, their savings are also from the state. Today the People's Parliamentary Group tabled this brief motion to ask the Government for a new macro framework with new budgets and a rebalancing plan. Our amendment, of course, substantially improves your motion because it proposes essentially how the government should rectify this macroeconomic picture, without leaving it to its free will, giving it greater caution and following the indications of the IREF's endorsement report. That is, picking up risks from lack of supplies in productive processes, uncertainty about the impact of the barely implemented recovery plan, and high energy prices. And secondly, we propose, as it cannot be otherwise, to start adopting the zero-based budget methodology, but, ladies and gentlemen of the PP, you know perfectly well - and you know - that this government is going to ignore these demands, unless they negotiate it with the government in the offices, without light or tachographs, as they do with the renewal of certain judicial bodies, right? Ladies and gentlemen of the PP, they criticize the budgets, but they negotiate with the government that kidnapped national sovereignty, which VOX appealed to the Constitutional Court; yes, that court in which they want to include the minister of consensus, the one that has pardoned the coups. [[Applauds]] For what purpose? It is very simple to consolidate the state of bipartisanism and the state of the welfare of politicians, the state of the Davos Agenda, because they want the Spanish submissive. We want the Spaniards standing up and we will defend their interests. [[Applauds]] What will the People's Party do with the processing of general budgets in view of this motion? Is it going to enter into negotiations on campaign amendments to spend without money, to give more resources to the autonomous communities... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-20-CD211020.u182	One second, Your Honor; excuse me. I beg your silence, please. Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-20-CD211020.u183	Are you going to enter into your negotiation of amendments to spend without tain, to give more resources to the autonomous communities where they govern to continue maintaining ancestral and outdated spending programmes? The alternative to all that is VOX, which will first of all start by drawing up budgets on a zero basis and, secondly, will give real value to the declaration of the income of each citizen and return the prosperity that both parties are robbing the Spanish over the years. In short, the Agenda Spain, always for and for the Spaniards. Thank you. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-20-CD211020.u184	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group to set positions.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-20-CD211020.u185	Thank you very much, Mr President. Last week, during the People's Group's appeal to the First Vice-President and Minister for Economic Affairs and Digital Transformation, the government's misguided and misguided handling of macroeconomic forecasts for the preparation of the 2022 State General Budgets was highlighted. It is a serious irresponsibility to listen deafly to the warnings of the IMF, the Bank of Spain and other national and international economic entities, which, with updated data, have significantly revised the Government's calculations downwards. If the disturbing estimates and observations of these bodies were fulfilled, the Government would drag Spain to a greater deficit, which is the dark economic panorama that has always characterized the socialist efforts, whose failure, then by the hand of Mr Rodríguez Zapatero, forced ten years ago to reform in extremis article 135 of the Spanish Constitution in order to enshrine the principle of budgetary stability and the limits to public indebtedness. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft public accounts, which has just begun its proceedings in the General Courts, is a colossal trap for the immediate future of Spain, because it further impoverishes society, stifles business momentum, increases unemployment and adds more mortgage burdens to the state and more debt for the coming years. Hence the importance of approving the three measures that the People's Group proposes in its motion to try to prevent Spain from falling once again with the PSOE into the black hole of the economy and returning to the socio-economic involution that is already being noted today in inflation, in the shopping basket and in employment, putting at risk, in addition, social care and pensions, and very disturbingly increasing the pockets of poverty. In an exercise of responsibility, gentlemen of the Government and of the groups who support you in this House, correct and heed the internal and external alarms, which are already ringing forcefully. I will vote in favour of the motion by the Group of the European People's Party, and if it incorporates the amendment of VOX, for much more reason. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-20-CD211020.u186	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Sayas López has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-20-CD211020.u187	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. These budgets that the Government of Spain has brought to this House are born dead, not only because they are based on macroeconomic figures that only the Government is now created and there is no body supporting it. The problem is not only that they are born dead, they are born of indecency. That is the great problem of these budgets, which are the budgets of ETA prisoners. [[Applauds]] The budgets of ETA prisoners! If these budgets go ahead with Bildu's votes, we already know what the payment is: 200 prisoners on the street. How little has lasted the pantomime that Mr. Otegi set up for bleaching! How soon we have seen the wolf's leg, because the wolf has taken care to teach us clearly! When he has felt calm, among his own, in confidence, he has put on the table the truth, that this was a strategy, that what is behind it is that two hundred prisoners of the terrorist band ETA go out on the street without serving their sentences. [[Applauds]] Will the Socialist Party allow that? It doesn't matter what they answer to us because their word has no value. Nor were they going to approach prisoners and today they are all close. Neither were they going to talk to Bildu and Bildu has been his government partner. Nor were they ever going to negotiate and we have seen the Government of Spain in photos of indecency sitting with a political force that still does not condemn ETA terrorism. The problem with these budgets is not that they will increase the debt. We have seen the Socialist Party this weekend say that we are moving forward. That we're moving on what? We are moving towards ruin, because what is progressing in Spain is public debt, 122% of GDP; what is progressing is the deficit, exactly 11 this year; what is progressing is unemployment, 15.8; what is progressing is youth unemployment, 40; women's unemployment, 16; what is progressing is the price of light, 300 %. But we'll be able to recover from all this. The problem is that with the Socialist Party what is progressing is indecency, and that will be much more difficult to replenish. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-20-CD211020.u188	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-20-CD211020.u189	Thank you, President. Good morning. I believe that the motion before us today is practically an amendment in its entirety to the draft budgets adopted by the Council of Ministers a few weeks ago. For this we already have the corresponding channel and a timetable is already set for this. If the groups so understand it or consider it, we will have a date to present an amendment to the whole, which is 29 October. That is the way and, of course, not a motion here today, which serves little purpose. It is true that the macro table contains optimistic forecasts and it is true that the INE has thrown a jar of cold water at them, because it has lowered the GDP estimate from 2.8 to 1.1 cut, a cut of 2 points, which reflects that the economy has grown perhaps more moderately than was believed, but it must also be said that this is due to an existing supply crisis and also to the rise in the gas price, which affects electricity. Inflation has increased, but it would also be fair to say that inflation that excludes the most volatile goods from their calculation remains at still acceptable levels. What is also necessary is whether this price increase will continue or whether, on the contrary, it will be transitory, because that too will greatly affect economic growth. I will not deny that, in our view, perhaps the macro picture can be somewhat optimistic, but we must also recognise that there is a surge in tourism, that there is growth in consumption, an advance in the process of vaccination and recovery of European economies as well. Having said that, it is also true that there are many uncertainties on the way, the forecasts remain wrapped in a high degree of uncertainty and economic activity remains conditioned, moreover, by the stimuli of economic policy. That is why I also think it is necessary to act or manage this data with caution. It is also fair to say that the Government's estimates are within those margins that provide for different institutions. There are institutions that anticipate a third quarter with growth above the second quarter and that can recover much of what has been lost with the revision of the INE, in short, which show a stronger recovery than the revision indicates. In particular, AIReF has endorsed the macro framework with two premises: provided that the pandemic remains globally controlled and that recovery plan investments begin to materialise. Finally, and with regard to the presentation of a rebalancing plan, in our view, as all analysts say, it is of course still necessary to have expansionary policies, because an premature withdrawal from the stimulus would be counterproductive. But it will also be necessary to talk in the medium term, indeed, about a future fiscal consolidation in which we will also have to look very closely at what will be decided by Europe on tax rules. We do not understand this motion because it is an amendment to the covert whole, because in a situation of uncertainty we have to recognize that the figures can dance upwards and downwards, but we do not think that this is why the draft budgets should be adjusted right now, because, as I said, the forecasts are kept within the margin set by the various institutions and perhaps also the revenue forecast can be maintained if we take into account the elasticity of taxes in the collection. We'll vote against it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-20-CD211020.u190	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Muñoz Vidal has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-20-CD211020.u191	Ladies and gentlemen, the pandemic crisis is far from over. I do not say this, we do not say it, the Governor of the Banco de España said yesterday that, like other agencies, he warns that growth will arrive slowly and much less will be as fast as the government predicts. The State General Budgets Bill for 2022 does not affect structural adjustments, part of optimistic assumptions and introduces worrying elements. That's not what I'm saying, as the BBVA study service said yesterday. As we all know, the macroeconomic picture developed by the Government serves as a basis for many things, including the drafting of the draft State General Budgets. Therefore, we can deduce - and it is already two consecutive years - that the Government has drawn up these public accounts based on fictitious data, extremely optimistic revenue figures and excessive expenditure on the expected growth; unreal data that cast doubt on the little credibility they already had or could already have on these accounts after the infamous exchange with ETA prisoners. The General Budgets of the State are fundamental for the future of the country, for the future of millions of families, self-governing and businesses and, however, the data that you take as a reference to make them do not serve; Banco de España, Instituto Nacional de Estatística,Fedea, Fondo Monetary International, Autorité Indépendante de Responsabilidad Fiscal, Funcas, BBVA Research, none of these agencies endorse their accounts. So, ladies and gentlemen, I can only tell you that the Spanish Liberals are concerned, and if you are not, we are even more concerned, because you should be concerned, above all, about debt and deficit data, because, despite numerous warnings and thanks to the suspension of the fiscal rules of Europe, this executive has ruled without measuring a cent of public expenditure and without taking into account the deviation of the structural deficit. Debt has increased during the COVID 30 points, 10 points above the average of developed economies, and already beats all records. And despite this, the government again presents a budget with a record level of public expenditure, almost 200 billion euros. Of course we are aware of the situation in which we live, of course it is necessary to maintain a series of essential stimuli for many families still, of course we have - moreover, we have supported them in this House, in this rostrum and with those green buttons in favour - but that does not legitimize us, it does not give us the right to open the way for the growth of spending in a structural way. We have an obligation to protect the present from the Spaniards, but not at the expense of mortgageing the future of all those Spaniards, our children and even our grandchildren, and that is exactly the main task we have here. But you are wrong about tools, because that is not achieved with populism, interventionism or waste of political spending. Do you know that the money from the reconstruction funds could be frozen in the future for all countries with excessive deficits that do not implement the recommendations of the European Union for their reduction? What plan does this Executive have for when Europe reactivates budgetary adjustments in 2023? I'm telling you, they don't have any. Brussels has already warned us twice and calls for prudent measures because of our high debt ratio. But I see, all this without counting on the effect of inflation, because this escalation that we are experiencing, in the near future it will mean an increase in debt in the face of the gradual withdrawal of stimulus from the European Central Bank. For every 1 % rising interest rates, EUR 15 billion more debt per year. I'm worried about this. Ladies and gentlemen, the government has remained alone in its optimism of a strong recovery with its accounts, which are tales based on unreal forecasts. Accounts that jeopardize the future of millions of Spaniards, accounts that need future planning and accounts, in short, that call for a sensible government with a sensible economic policy...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-20-CD211020.u192	You must finish, Your Honor, your time is over.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-20-CD211020.u193	...and not the fictional policy of the current Government of Spain, unfortunately. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-20-CD211020.u194	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Capdevila i Esteve has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-20-CD211020.u195	Thank you. Good afternoon. Welcome to the general essay on the budget debate. With the exception of the PNV, no one has been interested in identifying the causes of the inflationary crisis that haunts us and, therefore, the difficult predictability of the usual tools. I will pay close attention to the rest of the speakers. To state, as some politicians have done, that the rise of the CPI to 3.3% in August is not going to have consequences, either it is an act of solemn goodism or it responds to a total ignorance of how the productive sectors respond to the rise of the CPI. If we trust everything to energy, which is the ultimate responsible for the current increases for now, it will end up regulating downwards; and, if we do nothing to change the energy pricing system, then it is that the problem of the irresponsibility of our rulers is unlimited and they have been imbued with understanding. And it's a shock that the PP's recipe is primarily that we put charges on the budget. The rise in energy prices will - and very strongly - impact the CPI and this will cause serious problems in our economy. You don't have to be any guru to anticipate it. The CPI immediately affects consumers, but no less serious is that it continuously affects businesses. The main postCO VID problem of most industries has been to deal with weak demand in 2021, but at present the problem has become a supply crisis, because there is no productive capacity going from zero to two hundred in a few months without running out of any supply or supply capacity. And, if it were little, our SMEs and not so many SMEs will have to face an increase never seen in the 21st century in their costs mainly because of the strong rise in energy. This means that during 2022 the prices of goods and services produced in the internal market will be affected by these increases by a minimum of 5% and in a context of tolerated lateness - against any competitive logic and against any European regulation - this can mean a SME slaughterhouse. The same applies to goods and services that come from outside and this I believe will be the worst nightmare of our companies, our pockets and the European Central Bank. And if, as the worst omens announce, this involves an ascent of types, may God take us to confession. It is not thought that this has an easy solution, and the debate that I believe we are going to attend to see what finger points better or worse to the moon seems absolutely sterile to me if we do not attack the root problem and with as much determination as possible. Our group believes that the mechanism for fixing energy prices must be corrected not only because it is an injustice for consumers and because it is a flagrant abuse on the part of our large energy companies - which also - but because it must be done because inflation cannot be played; at least this has been the repeated mantra in the Europe of interwar, since we have the euro as a currency and the European Central Bank as guarantor of the monetary orthodoxy of German ideology. We have to change the regulation of energy prices or prepare ourselves for a little inflationary VID, and all we needed was this! But, nothing, you guys do your thing. Go on with the 'and you plus' or the 'and you before' and put the cart in front of the oxen. Does it really surprise you that there are more and more Catalans who believe that being Spanish is simply a bad business? Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-20-CD211020.u196	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Guijarro García has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-20-CD211020.u197	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Many of us have regretted the lack of responsibility on the part of the Spanish right-wings for an extraordinary situation such as that which the country has been experiencing for nineteen months now. Instead of hoisting their shoulders in the face of collective calamity, they embarked from the beginning on a demented competition to see who casts more shadow and doubt on government management. They not only brought to the Constitutional Court a statement of state of alarm that they had previously voted in favour - tell me if this is not unequivocal proof of their saboteurial will - but they managed to slip that the Government was hiding the figures of death by COVID, thus feeding the conspiracy tendencies of some of their parishioners. I hope one day you understand, ladies and gentlemen of the democratic right, that in that pyromaniac strategy, in that caustic strategy, those who already come from the house, that is, the far right, VOX, always win. But, well, you will see, every stick that endures its candle before the judgment of history. Today we are being debated in plenary by a result of this unbridled strategy, according to which the Government has also been repeatedly and from the outset lying about the main macroeconomic figures. Apparently, the Government's predictions would respond, at best, to a supine incompetence of high-ranking State officials, if not to a macabre plan of communist socialists for ruining the economy. Nor does it matter that they in the government did not show too many predictive lights; and above were normal scenarios, far from any extraordinary episode like the one we are now living. If I remember correctly, Montoro's team scored a year of six - one of six - in its predictions of GDP evolution. Come on, ladies and gentlemen, not even the reinstatement, as some would say. Nor do they note that all international economic organizations have pointed to the extreme volatility of the current context and the subsequent difficulties of any prognosis. In fact, the permanent and sometimes contradictory revisions that these agencies periodically make account of the many uncertainties faced by analysts today. It has been a final revision of these predictions by the INE that has generated the umpteenth scarecrow in the ranks of the People's Party. As it turns out, the Government should also make its corrections or, even better, take care of those published by independent agencies. These are usually quarterly and each institution chooses different moments for publication, so that, from one or the other, we have new corrections every month. I am thinking only of the most important and public ones: INE, AIReF and Banco de España; and, at international level, IMF, OECD and European Commission. Now, do you imagine any General State Budgets whose items will change every month as a result of a change in the estimation of macroeconomic variables? A sort of administrative schizophrenia and a sense of permanent interinity that would result in the total paralysis of the State would eventually spread. This reduction to absurdity shows us to what extent a government is obliged to work with a single annual prediction. It could have happened that the Spanish Government had failed dramatically in its past predictions, but the fact is that this year's budgets were drawn up with adjusted and credible figures; this has been ratified by the European authorities at different times and is also supported by the placements of public debt securities in recent months, as more than half of them have been placed at negative interest rates. Similarly, IBEX has grown by 32 % over the past year. Anyway, call me crazy, but I wouldn't say that economic operators are suspicious of the government and its forecasts, on the contrary. Perhaps it is because employment is recovering at a good pace and we hope to close the year with pre-pandemic levels, as the minister has already anticipated at this morning's control session. Perhaps it is because, despite inflationary pressures in recent months, the underlying inflation is barely 1%. Or perhaps it is because, despite a specific shortage due to the grabbing of commodities and raw materials by Asian markets, European aid is beginning to flow and the transformation of the productive matrix is beginning to be a reality. In any case, expectations invite immoderate optimism - moderate, of course, because there are still challenges to be solved and risks to be avoided - and, fortunately, we are not facing the tetric scenario you paint from the People's Party. Finally, I am going to make some reflections about the so-called rebalancing plan - the lifelong adjustment plan - that they set out in their initiative. They argue their need on the basis of providing - you say - a clear signal to all the agents of Spain's commitment to budgetary stability. As I said before, these actors do not seem to be suspicious of the Government's commitment, among other reasons, because there are reasons. While it is true that, for example, public debt has been triggered since the beginning of the crisis, it has fallen by almost 3 points in the second quarter of the year, according to data from the Banco de España. This evolution does not imply irresponsible behaviour, do you not think, ladies and gentlemen? In conclusion, Mr President, it is irresponsible to attack the government for one thing and its opposite at the same time. They chill because energy prices rise and chill also when the Government takes measures to appease them.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-20-CD211020.u198	Your Honor, you must finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-20-CD211020.u199	They chill because government spending on social coverage is being fired and they chill because, in your opinion, the government does nothing. Chillan, in short, because the Government does too much and too little at the same time. Chillan, chillan, chillan. When they are exhausted, perhaps we will have a minimally intelligible debate. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-20-CD211020.u200	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, Mr Alfonso Cendón has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-20-CD211020.u201	Thank you very much, President. Mr Castellón, as all your lords know, Cervantes recalled in El Quixote that he who does not know how to enjoy the chance when he comes should not complain if he passes. Serve this parchment to start my response to the discomfort caused by the General Budgets of the State to the right and to the extreme right, which, wrongly, with hoaxes and trichinets, continue to put sticks in the wheel to the advancing Spain; yes, ladies and gentlemen, to the advancing Spain despite you. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, you can check once again today how the People's Party returns to its course. Last week he showed himself to be a government party, unlocking institutions, something we applauded. But we found that his scorpion gene is still intact: they can't help but bite where and how it is, it's superior to their strength. Faced with their destructive attitude based solely on not everything, on the 'worst, better' and obviating key data - as they have now obvious that ten years ago ETA ended, that we have experienced a pandemic and that it has been the worst crisis in our recent history -, our Government has been up to it with a clear premise: to leave no one behind. It has deployed an unprecedented social shield, committed to science and vaccination, taken measures that have saved more than 450,000 lives, avoided a fall of more than 25% of GDP and prevented the loss of three million jobs and the start of a new financial crisis. You, in your motion, make a very biased reference to some predictions and pose an apocalyptic and unreal scenario. The Government's macroeconomic forecasts are responsible and extremely prudent. All of us here know that it is common in a context where we find a high volatility of statistical estimates, one upwards and the other downwards, but in what all the predictions do agree is that our country's growth will be positive and accelerated in 2022. Thus, the IMF has raised its forecasts for Spain by 6 tenths, placing our country at the head of growth in Europe and the world. In other words, Spain is growing despite the pandemic and despite you, ladies and gentlemen, and it is thanks to the determined action of this government. A government that focuses on growth and that moves that growth to citizens, workers and women workers. In recent months, unemployment has fallen by more than 600 000 people, social security membership has increased by 1.3 million contributors and ERTE has fallen by 625 000 people. These are some of the key indicators for ensuring a lasting and inclusive recovery that leaves no one behind. Moreover, in terms of GDP growth, from the previous financial crisis we took ten years to recover; however, now, thanks to the action of this Government, we will recover before the end of this year. [[Applauds]] We've already done it on the job. The deficit, Mr Castellón, also falls and will fall to 5% next year, translating to less than half in the next two years, and public debt will follow the downward path initiated after the pandemic. Spain is also making progress in fiscal consolidation, but without making the mistake of withdrawing fiscal stimulus policies early, in line with what the Bank of Spain, the IMF, the European Commission and the OECD say, because this government is committed to the social shield so as not to leave anyone behind, neither people nor territories. That is the Government's high priority. Therefore, and in the face of its catastrophe, this Government will continue to deploy a coherent and sound economic policy, based on fiscal responsibility, social justice and structural reforms to increase equality, progress and social cohesion that will make Spain a better and more decent country to live in. With regard to what was specifically pointed out in your motion, let me tell you that it seems more like a 'help' to us with that slogan of yours 'wear and dung, that something always remains'. You know well - and you seem to forget it very easily - what you assumed in the previous crisis your neoliberal austerity policies that left a lot of people behind in our country. These General State Budgets, together with the 140 billion of the Recovery Plan, will serve to transform Spain with a record social investment -6 out of 10 euros - and to make an investment in the major aspects and major transformations that our country needs. I would also like to highlight the EUR 13 billion dedicated to science and digitisation, which will make R & D+i the fundamental pillar of our progress and development. Ladies and gentlemen, let us work together for the future and progress of the country. Correct your strategy, tie your shoulder and support these budgets that are necessary to ensure a fair recovery and to make Spain a more productive, more competitive, more sustainable and more prosperous country to live in.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-20-CD211020.u202	Your Honor, you must finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-20-CD211020.u203	Mr Castellón, we will vote no. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-20-CD211020.u204	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Castellón, do you accept any of the amendments tabled?
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-20-CD211020.u205	We prefer that the vote be taken on the terms in which we have tabled the motion.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-20-CD211020.u206	All right. The meeting was suspended. It was one and fifty minutes in the afternoon.
