ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. The meeting was resumed. Take your seats, please. We continue with the questions addressed to the Government in accordance with the order sent by the Government. Questions to the President of the Government. Question by Mr Pablo Casado Blanco, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u2	Thank you, President. Today's the day. Mr Sánchez, Spain is going through the worst diplomatic crisis with Morocco in our democratic history. Yesterday I called him to tell him that he has our support to guarantee national sovereignty in Ceuta and Melilla and the territorial integrity of our borders. And for that I told him that we should strengthen the police forces, the Armed Forces, coordination with Europe and relations with Morocco. Ceuta has been Spanish for six hundred years and our compatriots there do not deserve this. It's the chronicle of an announced crisis. We have been warning of diplomatic errors by the Government for years. He began by breaking the tradition of travelling first to Morocco; he did not react to the occupation of the waters of the Canary Islands or to Trump's recognition of the Sahara, and hid Ghali's arrival with false documentation. The loss of external weight and the change of allies pass us the bill, so Biden does not return the calls when we lack the most. So I hope it's not too late and rectify. And it is that the best foreign policy is a good domestic policy, but the chaos of your government is our greatest weakness outside. It has been seen in the failure of their European candidatures, but also in the immigration policy, which is now being used as a bold weapon against us. From the so-called effect of the Aquarius to remove the concertines - which, by the way, installed Zapatero - and criticize the hot returns - that yesterday used up to 4000 times -. In spite of everything, we've reached out to him. From Arguineguin I offered you a state pact for security, immigration and foreign policy, but you chose the radicality of Podemos once again, and that is only your responsibility. He cannot support the army while they ask to remove him from Ceuta his partners in Bildu; he cannot defend national integrity in Melilla while negotiating Catalonia's self-determination with its partners in Esquerra; he cannot sell smoke by 2050 when he is unable to solve this disaster in 2021. When a ship makes waters, the captain cannot promise the crew and passage to go around the world. Without acrid: he has shown that the Government remains great. It has not managed the health crisis, the economic crisis, the territorial crisis or the international crisis. Be humble and let yourself be helped. There is more loyalty in this opposition than in its Council of Ministers, because for us all that matters is Spain. [[Prolonged applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u3	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u4	Thank you very much, Madam President. Your Honor, it has not been made clear to me, do you support the Government of Spain or do you not support the Government of Spain? [[Applauds]] Clear up. Because in the morning we have a private conversation on the telephone and you say that you support the Government of Spain, and today here and yesterday in your statements you do just the opposite, Your Honor. It is what always happens to you, Your Honor; the same always happens. They use any calamity, the greatest calamity in history during the last hundred years of humanity with the pandemic, also a crisis with Morocco, unprecedented in recent years, to try to overthrow the Government of Spain. And they're not gonna make it, Your Honor, they're not gonna make it. [[Applauds]] They're not gonna make it. Mr Casado, this is the problem of Spanish democracy, which we are suffering from an opposition that is not only disloyal to the Government of Spain, but is disloyal to the general interests of the State and, therefore, to the general interests of all Spanish citizens. [[Applauds]] This is a time when Spain is facing a challenge from a third country, which is Morocco, and we want to know on which side is the main opposition party, on the side of the general interest or on the side of its party interests, ladies and gentlemen? [[Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u5	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u6	What they have to do is define themselves, situate themselves. We are on the side of the territorial integrity of our country, we are on the side of ensuring the security, tranquillity and calm of our compatriots in Ceuta and Melilla. By the way, there is something that you have not done but that I do want to claim here: the good work of the State Security Forces and Bodies, of NGOs and also of the army, which have shown in the images that we are seeing today in the media that they are a pride for a great democracy such as the Spanish one. [[Applauds]] And in this respect, I will tell you, Your Honor, that Ceuta and Melilla must know - I hereby affirm - that they have the support, understanding and empathy of all Spanish citizens and, therefore, of the Government of Spain, and that what we are going to do is to defend our territorial integrity, our borders, calm, tranquillity and security of the citizens living in Ceuta and Melilla. I hope, Your Honor, that they abandon that disloyal opposition - not with the Government, but with the State - and assume their responsibility as the main opposition party. [[Prolonged applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u7	Mr. Married.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u8	If I lived in Ceuta or Melilla, I would be very concerned to see my President of the Government absolutely disheartened in a parliamentary session. The disloyalty in foreign policy is you. I did not go to Morocco with a map of the Moroccan Canary Islands during the government of a party other than mine. What I'm telling you is that you have to react and defend Spain. [[Applauds.-Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u9	Thank you, Mr. Casado. [[Protests Continue]] Quiet, please. I'm asking for silence! Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u10	This is the problem, ladies and gentlemen, that the right does not accept that in this country the left is ruled legitimately because they have won the elections. That's the problem. [[Applauds]] Your Honor, you were asking for Plan B, that pandemic law which had the vote against by all parliamentary groups on your proposal. This is the problem, that you don't have a plan B, a plan C, a plan D..., you don't even have a plan A, you only have one goal: to use any calamity to bring down the government and you won't achieve it. [[Prolonged applause]] - OF THE DEVELOPED MR. MIRIAM NOGUERAS I CAMERO, OF THE PLURAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHICH FORMS TO THE PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT: CAN YOU GUARANTEE THE PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT THAT SMEs WILL BE THE PRINCIPAL BENEFITS OF THE RECOVERY PLAN THAT YOUR GOVERNMENT HAS PRESENT TO THE EUROPEAN AUTHORITIES? [[File number 180/00527]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u11	Question by Mrs Miriam Nogueras i Camero from the Plural Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u12	Good morning. Can the Government guarantee that it will prioritise aid to SMEs instead of large Spanish long-term enterprises? Mr President, everyone is pointing out to you - the European Central Bank, the Bank of Spain, the Multisectoral Platform against Morosity, SMEs - the alarming risk of morosity: closure of more companies, loss of more jobs. It was admitted to procedure a few months ago here, in Congress, the sanctioning regime and you voted in favour. We understand that they didn't just do it because they had the headline, so, being in their hands, when are they going to unlock it? I ask you, President, this time to answer what I ask and avoid insulting, as you have been doing for too many months, thousands of citizens of Catalonia who have voted for us. We can understand that you consider that we do not share too many things, but you, Mr President, are the President of the Kingdom of Spain. We can expect insults from other characters, but not from a president. So we demand minimal respect in your response, above all out of respect for all those small and medium-sized enterprises and self-employed enterprises, which deserve a clear and honest response from the President of the Kingdom of Spain. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u13	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u14	Thank you, Madam President. I don't quite understand that reproach. Of course, some phrases can be poured into a parliamentary dialectic, but I have always done so from the utmost respect and parliamentary scruple. Finally, if not simply to the bench, the things that they speak precisely to the Government or to the parliamentary majority on the left or progressive in the General Courts. I believe we do not lose parliamentary decorum, Your Honor. In any case, returning to your question, I want to say that the fifth lever precisely of the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan is called textually Modernization and digitization of the industrial fabric and the SME. And it has 16,075 million euros, 23% of the plan; that is, the largest budget lever is now located in the industrial fabric and also in small and medium-sized enterprises. The 13th component is called the SME Impulse, and it is endowed with €4894 million and includes a set of reforms and investments that will be promoted in five strategic areas that I will mention: first, entrepreneurship; second, growth; third, digitisation and innovation; and, lastly, support for trade and internationalisation. Just a few days ago, Your Honor, we approved in the Council of Ministers the Plan of Internationalization 2021-2022 of the Spanish Economy, in which we were committing more than €45 billion precisely to increase the export base of our economy and that it be the small and medium-sized enterprises - not the large ones - that make this leap of internationalization. On the other hand, the Ministry of Finance is signing agreements with the autonomous communities to, over the coming weeks and months, assist in this last phase of overcoming the pandemic and economic recovery for small and medium-sized enterprises. I hope that, since you are going to be able to form a coalition government, you will allow us to sign that agreement with the Generalitat de Catalunya and therefore be able to launch such direct aid, which will undoubtedly be fundamental and beneficial for self-employed workers and also for small and medium-sized enterprises in Catalonia. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u15	Mrs. Nogueras.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u16	Thank you, President. Dedicating EUR 4 billion to SMEs and EUR 66 billion to large enterprises is not, in our view, prioritising SMEs. Youth unemployment in Spain is 40.7% while the European average is 17%. The overall unemployment rate in Spain is 16.5% and the European average is 8.3%. With your answer, Mr President, we understand that the answer to our question is no; you are not going to prioritize SMEs, you are going to prioritize the large Spanish late businesses, which owe more than EUR 80 billion in invoices, and that we should therefore forget the injection of more than EUR 100 billion that would mean that they would comply with the law of lateness. And all of this you end up presenting a regulation of the autonomous regime, which has obviously made someone who has no idea what it is to be autonomous or autonomous. It is very clear, Mr President. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u17	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u18	Thank you, Madam President. Two data and a correction. The data are, firstly, that the whole volume of resources that we have channelled through the ICO has gone to over 90% to small and medium-sized enterprises and self-employed workers, and, secondly, the unemployment benefits to self-employed workers. And the correction, that agreement has indeed been signed with the Generalitat de Catalunya and we hope to put it into effect as soon as possible. [[Applauds]] - OF THE GIRL INES ARRIMED GARCIA, OF THE CITIZEN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT: WHAT MEASURES IS THE GOVERNMENT GOING TO TAKE TO AVOID THE IRREGULAR ENTRY IN SPAIN BY THE WINDOW BORDER? [[File number 180/00543]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u19	Question by Mrs Inés Arrimadas García, Member of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u20	Thank you, Madam President. My first words are for the citizens of Ceuta and Melilla, who are suffering with anguish at the moment, and also for the civilian guards, the police and the military, who are saving lives and protecting Spain. You're a pride to all of us. [[Applauds]] Mr Sánchez, what steps will your Government take to tackle the very serious crisis in Ceuta? And above all, what have you done in the last few months to try to avoid getting to this situation?
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u21	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u22	Thank you very much, Madam President. I thank you for the tone and I understand that you have thanked you for the communication that we have had from the First Vice-President with your group and with your person to inform you about the crisis in Morocco, which, I insist, is not a migration crisis, it is a crisis of another kind and as such it must be addressed. In any case, I will tell you what measures we have taken. Firstly, measures of order and control, and in this respect I would like to acknowledge the work being done by the Ministry of the Interior, an extraordinary work, Mr Marlaska; I also thank you for the leadership on this issue. [[applause]] The army has been deployed at the border, the strength of the 400 State Security Forces and Bodies has been strengthened, and the immediate return of those who have entered irregularly is under way. Around 4800 people who entered the Autonomous City of Ceuta irregularly two days ago have already returned to Morocco. Secondly, we have had material and personal means to address the humanitarian crisis. In this regard, I believe that the Liniers camp has been reopened, to which 169 minors and particularly vulnerable persons have moved. Thirdly, as you have also seen, the unequivocal support of all the European authorities, recalling that the border with Ceuta is not only a border from Spain to Morocco, but also a European border and that, consequently, the lack of control, in this case by the Moroccan authorities, is not something that represents a lack of respect for Spain but also for the whole of the European Union. So, what would I like? To call for unity and responsibility on the part of all parliamentary groups, especially those of the conservative bench, so that they are with the Government of Spain at this critical moment. I believe that at the moment the parliamentary groups must be asked for more responsibility and, above all, for a sense of state opposition. I hope, ladies and gentlemen, you and the rest of the right-wing bench prove that you are indeed with the state, even though you are legitimately critical of this government. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u23	Mrs. Arrimadas.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u24	Without a doubt, this is much more than a migration and humanitarian crisis with images that overwhelm, this is a real challenge to our country and to the unprecedented territorial integrity of Spain. All of Spain has seen Morocco literally open the border and have entered 8,000 people in an irregular situation in one day. I want to make it clear that there is one responsible for this unjustifiable affront, which is Morocco, and that we must be together as a country, with unity and firmness, to respond to it. But we must also analyse the factors that have led to this situation. Do you know why you didn't answer me when I asked you what you did to try to avoid this situation? Because they have made many mistakes; their Government has created a diplomatic vacuum with very important countries and has abandoned foreign policy; it has not taken seriously the strengthening of border control with sufficient human and material means. And, at European level, the statements of the leaders of the European institutions are very important and are very welcome, but the government must already lead a genuine joint action to effectively protect borders so that Morocco and any other country know that violating the Spanish borders and challenging Spain is violating the European borders and challenging Europe. This deserves an intelligent and decisive response, in line with this challenge; a state response, in which we will be the constitutionalists, with unity, so that not only Morocco but everyone knows that Spain is a great country. But we, unlike its partners, are a state party and we will always defend Spain, the compatriots of Ceuta and Melilla and the State Security Forces and Bodies, which literally play their part in protecting us all. But in order to achieve that unity you must correct obvious mistakes in foreign policy, strengthen controls and act firmly here and in Brussels to protect our country, and make it very clear to everyone that Spain is not blackmailed. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEVELOPED GAMARRA RUIZ-CLAVIJO DESIGN OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, which FORMULATES THE VICE-President OF THE AND MINISTER OF THE PRESIDENCY, RELATIONS WITH THE COURTS AND DEMOCRATIC MEMORY: WHAT OPINION DOES THE CONSTITUTIONAL TRIBUNAL DESERVE FROM THE TORTICER USED BY THIS GOVERNMENT OF THE REAL DECRETO-LEY? [[File number 180/00542]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u25	Questions to the First Vice-President of the Government and Minister for the Presidency, Relations with the Courts and Democratic Memory. Question by Mrs Concepción Gamarra Ruiz-Clavijo of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u26	Thank you, President. Madam Vice-President: No comments. That's how you reacted last week when the press asked you about the Constitutional Court's ruling that two of your decree-laws lay down for you, giving reason to the People's Party and another political party. You really don't have any comment to make? Because the occasion deserves it. The rulings of the Constitutional Court are no new type of meteorological phenomenon outside the Government, they are a direct judgment to its management. His decree-laws have faced an examination of legality and have suspended it streptly. They just told you that the government is abusing your powers and you've been eating the cat's tongue; go on. In the face of your absence of comments, allow me to remind you of one of those whom you may know: I propose to give Parliament the centrality it deserves and to limit the use of the decree-law. Does that ring a bell? Look to your right: Pedro Sánchez, the author of the appointment in 2015. What happened to that promise? Perhaps you tell me that Pedro Sánchez did it and not the president of the government, that we already know that you are two very different people. But, beyond its rhetorical pirouettes, the rulings of the Constitutional Court always prevail, and even more so when they abuse for reasons as bloody as plugging Pablo Iglesias and the still chief of staff, Ivan Redondo, in the supervision of the CNI. Mrs. Calvo, don't throw balloons out. How does the rapapolo of the Constitution appreciate the torticero use made by this government of the royal decree-law? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u27	Madam First Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u28	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Gamarra, I thank you very much for the question, but you did not accept the word rapapolvo when it comes to accepting the rulings of the Constitutional Court, which guarantees our constitutional order; I will not accept it. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u29	Mrs. Gamarra.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u30	Mrs. Calvo, you can call it whatever you prefer, rapapolvo, varapalo, whatever you want, but there is a reality, and it is that you carry fifty-three decree-laws in this legislature, to which you have to add thirty-five in the past or, what is the same, you go at a rate of decree-law a week, which is quite a democratic nonsense. For the time being, they've had two, but I'll let you know they'll be the last of us because, for example, that of the Okupas is pending. And I assure you that in the People's Party we will continue to do our work and that we will resort to all their excesses. Madam Vice-President, I recommend that you stop looking at the year 2050 because propaganda and advertising no longer tickle. Even if they want to look there, their will cannot be imposed because the Socialist Party has only 120 Members. The more they abuse, the more tired the Spanish are. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u31	Madam First Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u32	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Gamarra, I told you that I thanked you for the question; moreover, I will thank you up to the tone. You, in this pandemic, in this crisis, have only noise, but no nuts to put in front of Spanish politics. [[Rumors]] They use absolutely everything; they have brought into this House absolutely empty debates that affect the structure of our political system with the Council of State; today with the Constitutional Court. They have set up a campaign not to understand that we deliver a marriage to the Supreme Court, which is the hierarchy and vertex of our jurisdictional system. You do not have a single limit, in circumstances like this, to destroy the policy of this country. But the memory, the data - which are not controversial because they are there - will bring you some blush today. Look, we have made forty-six royal decree-laws, of which thirty-eight are linked to the pandemic, to have to decide quickly, to protect quickly, to make quick health purchases, many of them to protect this country, with you against all the time. [[applause]] If we were not in a pandemic, this government would have fewer royal decree-laws than the last of its party. Do you want me to remind you? [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u33	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u34	I will remind you because memory is cruel for those who make filibusterism policy useless for Spain. Thirty royal decrees-laws of President Rajoy, all unprocessed as bills, unlike what this government does, which then gives voice to the House with the processing. [[Applauds]] They have no limits on politics; they have decided to be against their country. We've been waiting for you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u35	Thank you very much, Vice President. - OF THE DEVELOPED DON IVAN SPINOSIS OF THE SIMON MONTERS, OF THE VOX PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHICH FORMS THE VICE-President OF THE AND MINISTER OF THE PRESIDENCY, RELATIONS WITH THE COURTS AND DEMOCRATIC MEMORY: WHAT DOES CREDIBILITY HAVE THIS GOVERNMENT? [[File number 180/00539]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u36	Question by Mr Iván Espinosa de los Monteros de Simon, Member of the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u37	Thank you very much, Madam President. Madam Vice-President, it is true that this government is born addicted, addicted to that unfulfilled promise of the president of the government not to ally himself with those who were then his allies: the communists, the separatists, the terrorists; all of them people that one cannot trust. The bad news is that they are those undesirable partners precisely the only ones with which you comply. To those of Podemos allow them to process a trans law, even though it goes exactly against the argument of the PSOE; to those of Bildu every Friday the prisoners condemned for terrorism approach them, they have only one last Friday of blood left for them to be under the custody of the PNV and to be able to release the penitentiary authorities, to which you have transferred the competition for that purpose, and, of course, the pardon to the coup prisoners of ERC goes wind up, even though they humiliate you in Parliament. In those circumstances, what credibility does this Government have?
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u38	Madam First Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u39	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Espinosa de los Monteros, under any circumstances, the one that the ballot boxes give us. Is that okay with you? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u40	Señor Espinosa de los Monteros.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u41	I think it would be much better if you hadn't fooled the voters, that would be fine with me. But, Madam Vice-President, I am afraid that the correct answer is that this government has no credibility, and it is a verifiable evidence because its government is losing prestige day by day, ministry to ministry. It doesn't matter where we look: a minister of the economy who learns of the measures that President Sánchez takes for the newspaper and who says in Brussels things that he doesn't say in Madrid; a minister of labor who presides the greatest moment of unemployment in the history of Spain; a second vice president who has gone through the back door; a minister of ecological transition who is making the bill of the most expensive light in history; a minister of finance who is raising taxes more than ever, after having denied it five times; a minister of the interior who has deserved the reprobation of this Congress more than anyone; a minister of development, who was going to be that of scandals and, in comparison, is going unnoticed. [[Laughter]] Madam Vice-President, Spain has a government which, unfortunately, is sinking, and within and outside our borders is already very evident. The problem is that this has consequences, the consequences are that a country like Morocco has correctly identified it, has seen that this is a weak Government, has seen that it feels supported by a country like the United States, which, unfortunately, has not yet returned the call to the President of the Government after four months of taking office, and that is why we are allowed to launch in an organized way a real invasion to take over the city of Ceuta. And in the face of such a challenge, this weak government does not show the firmness and strength necessary to defend our borders. Stop, identify and immediately push all those who have violated our sovereignty, and make sure that no one does it again in the future. Madam Vice-President, your first and highest obligation is to protect the Spaniards and defend our territory. If you are not even willing to do that, leave as soon as possible, stop hurting yourself and, above all, stop hurting Spain. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u42	Madam First Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u43	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Espinosa de los Monteros, you always ask me the same thing; in different ways, but always ask me the same thing. So I conclude that what is happening in the background of you, of your group, is also the same: you question the system, you question democracy, you do not question, I hope, the concrete policies of this government. You question the existence of a government that is not what you want and what you want. You have brought to this House the possibility of illegalizing parties forty-two years after this country opened up to all ideological freedoms. You have a problem with democracy. Moreover, the only thing they have to do in this matter that we live in these days is to be with our compatriots from Ceuta and Melilla, with Spain and with the legitimate and constitutional government of Spain. Apart from that, get used to it, Mr Espinosa de los Monteros, because we have more than two years of the legislature of this government, which will continue to do its job, which is to protect Spain at its borders and on its day-to-day, in employment, in health, in vaccination, in what really is Spain. [[Applauds]] - OF THE MR MARIO GARCÍES SANAGUSTÍN, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHO FORMULATES THE SECOND AND MINISTER OF ECONOMIC AFFAIRS AND DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION TO THE SECOND SECOND SECOND CHAIRY OF THE MINISTER: WHAT DOES THE HOOT OF THE OTHER CHARGES OF THE MINISTRY BE? [[File number 180/00536]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u44	Question to the second Vice-President of the Government and Minister for Economic Affairs and Digital Transformation. Question by Mr Mario Garcés Sanagustín, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u45	Thank you very much, Madam President. Madam Vice President, up to four senior officials of your administration have had to run away in a stampede. The government already looks like a Titanic and, of course, only the orchestra remains playing Beethoven's Ninth Symphony, ordered by Pedro Sánchez. But I'm going to give you some keys to understand why your government's high offices are running away, because it's for five reasons of shame. The first, political shame, the political shame of being co-responsible for having participated in a government that has placed Spain in the worst position of all the social and economic rankings and indicators of the European Union and the OECD. Do you know, Madam Vice-President, that the level of public debt that Spain has in comparison with national wealth is the equivalent of that which existed in 1903, five years after the great crisis of 98? They may also have gone for institutional shame, for having sent a draft budget law to the European Union containing a growth forecast of 9.8%. They had to review it quickly, they reduced it by a third, it was not a question of fine adjustment, a rough adjustment, a third, as if they did not have high frequency indicators. But they have also been able to go on another subject: out of shame to others, because of the shame that President Sánchez projects. Up to nine submissions from the Resilience Plan. We have moved from the manual of resistance to the resistance of the manual, based, directly, on the bottom of resilience. But how is it possible that you have hidden the tax hike knowing that last year there was a total collection of EUR 194 billion and this year you aspire to raise EUR 80 billion more? Can you explain to me how that difference can be justified? They have also been able to go for technical shame, because they are good professionals. How can it be said that the elimination of joint taxation was a mistake and how can it be said that the implementation of tolls was merely a reflection? The mistake is you and reflection is the point of political inflection that there is. And finally, out of judicial shame, because it is possible that some of these senior officials fear what is also happening with SEPI's board of directors and that they can all be investigated. Therefore, Madam Vice-President, explain to me what shame of the five I have referred to all the exits. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u46	Madam Second Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u47	Thank you. Mr Garcés, I confess to you that I was very surprised by a question so blurred in this place, in the Congress of Deputies, and so many misguided around that absurd question. I am also surprised that the People's Party is supposed to be a party that has been in the government and should be aware of the demands of the posts held in the Ministry of Economy, and also that none of the State Secretaries of Economy of the People's Party was as long in office as those of the Socialist Party. [[Applauds]] But I thank you for the question, I thank you for allowing me to see that the workload that the Ministry of Economic Affairs has had and, above all, what we have produced in these three years cannot be compared with what the governments of the People's Party have done, from the point of view of regulatory production, of the meetings of the Government Delegated Commission for Economic Affairs, practically triples our work with the previous governments, the creation of the macro-prudential authority...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u48	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u49	... the creation of the financial sandbox, all the measures we have taken in response to this extraordinary crisis to protect our economy and our society. Not to mention, of course, the important role we have played in achieving this EUR 140 billion and in articulating a recovery plan which is considered one of the best in the European Union and which really opens up a positive horizon for the citizens of this country. All these considerations lead me to the conclusion that, in fact, you are not aware of the work of the Ministry of Economy, but, as the President of the Government has said, what would be desirable is a little loyalty and that they support not the Government, but the general interests of Spain. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u50	Mr. Garcés.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u51	See if I am aware, Madam Vice-President, that you have made all the decree-laws to place the last of us. They'd better work less. He's making himself look like Pedro Solbes. You guys have three things to do. They always look to the past and in the past find their mistakes; in the present they are unable to find solutions and have now discovered the mythical figure of 2050. Do you know that it takes four generations of Spaniards to pay the debt? There will be neither you nor the President of the Government. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u52	Madam Second Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u53	Mr. Garcés, I just feel pride, respect and affection for all the people who really are willing, at a high personal cost, to take a step forward and defend the general interests, as Mr. Solbes did and as my entire team in the Ministry of Economy does. Let's see if he learns a little. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEVELOPED THEOTOR GARCIA EGEA, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHICH FORMS THE Honourable Vice-President THIRD AND MINISTER OF WORK AND SOCIAL ECONOMY: DOES THE Vice-President THIRD KNOW THE REASONS FOR WHICH THE GOVERNMENT'S REPORTS TO BRUSSELS HAVE KNEW THE SPANISH? [[File number 180/00535]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u54	Questions to the third Vice-President of the Government and Minister for Labour and Social Economy. Question by Mr Teodoro García Egea, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u55	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I find you very nervous. I understand you don't like to be pitied and booed, but don't pay for it with us. Be fair. Mrs Díaz, usually governments have a hundred days of trial, not thirty years. So, tomorrow you present a plan to 2050, but I would like to talk about 2021, if you don't mind. If you want us to talk about 2050, let's talk about 2050. With the contributions that are going to put the self-employed, how many self-employed are going to stand by 2050? Do you know if we charge our pensions in 2050 or if the ERTEs that are outstanding are going to be charged? How many unemployed will there be in 2050? Has Spain left the blacklist of tourist destinations in 2050? What immigration and defence policy are we going to have on our borders in 2050? 2050 is the new Alliance of Civilizations? And now I'm going to ask you questions as early as 2021. Why did they veto the proposal of Pablo Casado's legal plan to fight the pandemic by the autonomous communities? When will the aid from European funds reach businesses? How many taxes are going to go up to the Spaniards? How are you going to solve the drama of the 1.2 million households that have all their members unemployed? And one last question. Do you know the reasons why they have hidden the cuts envisaged by the government in the plan they sent to Brussels? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u56	Madam Third Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u57	Thank you, President. Mr. García Aegean, it would be good if you didn't miss the truth. [[Rumors]] This is the first time we have come out of a crisis without practicing cuts and, above all, expanding rights, not as happened in the previous crisis, when you were ruling. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u58	Mr. García Aegean.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u59	Minister, you should read the book you recommended me last week, The Art of Political Lie, because the millions of unemployed in the previous crisis are your government, of which you are a member today, the Socialist Party and Zapatero. I see that, as your teacher, Churches, you prefer not to answer, but I will try again. Why did they veto the proposal of Pablo Casado's legal plan to fight the pandemic, which they even ask for their autonomous presidents? When will the aid from European funds reach businesses? Why are we hiding the taxes that are going to go up to the Spaniards, because that is also cuts? The confiscation of part of the income of a self-employed person is a cut by the Government. You have no answer and that is why the government is looking at 2050 and not this summer, this month or this week, but I tell you one thing, Minister. Pablo Iglesias was also looking at 2050 and has not arrived in the summer. The Spanish, however, know that they will not have to look at 2050 to get them off the black list of tourist destinations, to lower their taxes and avoid fiscal hell or to ensure that the security of our borders is guaranteed because soon it will be Pablo Casado and the People's Party that put order in Spain. Pack your bags because everyone knows yours is a decomposing government. From the future we have only one certainty. Although you will be leaving the Government very soon, in 2050 we will continue to pay the Government's debt. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u60	Thank you very much, Mr García Aegean. Madam Third Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u61	Your Honor, you have noticed that you are very concerned about the self-employed. I will give you a fact: do you know how many autonomous people we lost with the management of the financial crisis of the People's Party? It was 551,000. Check the data on the growth of current Social Security affiliates in the self-governing regime, you will see that it is an example of how we have handled the crisis differently. And I'm going to talk to you about cuts, Mr. García Aegean. I told him last Wednesday that Spain had memory, that we remember perfectly those Fridays of pains, those Fridays of suffering and pain for the humble people of our country. Cut. Notice, €95 billion in cuts in unemployment benefits when he ruled his party, the People's Party, when people needed it most; a cut that resulted in a fall in the unemployment coverage rate of 25 points, Mr García Eggea. That's talking about the real people, when they needed it more!, 9500 million euros. I will also give you another figure: 6 billion euros of cuts - remember?, the Royal Decree 16/2012, the Royal Decree 20/2012- in a matter as sensitive as health. Do you remember the cut-off and the co-payment to the pensioners? Do you also remember the pension cut? Please, Mr. García Aegean, don't tell us about pension cuts, you who have made life impossible for pensioners. [[Applauds]] I am going to talk to you about another very important cut yes, Mr García Aegean, very important, in education: EUR 5 billion of cuts in education - what a country needs -, in what are called scholarships, they have cut them and they have raised the rates, also when families most needed it. Look, Mr. Garcia Aegean... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u62	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u63	They are so bad opposition that they have even been able to go to Europe to question the Spanish Government. They are so bad opposition that they have voted against EUR 140 billion to transform our country. Mr. García Aegean, they're going to Europe to ask for cuts, to abandon... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u64	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President. - OF THE DEVELOPED MARTA ROSIC I SALTOR, OF THE REPULICIAN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE GOVERNMENT: WHAT CHANGES ARE YOU PROVIDED FOR FOR YOUNG PEOPLE TO HAVE A DYNO JOB? [[File number 180/00529]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u65	Question by Mrs Marta Rosique i Saltor, Member of the Republican Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u66	Good morning. What changes are planned for young people to have a decent job?
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u67	Madam Third Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u68	Thank you, Your Honor. I believe that this is one of the most relevant questions that have been heard in this House. [[Rumors.-Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u69	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u70	I say again that I believe that this is one of the most relevant questions that have been heard in this House. Your Honor, I appreciate that. As you are well aware, there are many measures that we need to take, not only in labour legislation, but also in changing the productive model and the business culture of this country, to change what has been the failed history of our people. I think we must work together to make it possible for us to get out of a figure that is impossible in our country: 40% youth unemployment. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u71	Mrs. Rosique.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u72	Thank you, President. Indeed, we share the analysis and, above all, also the concern, beyond youth unemployment, as regards temporaryity and unintended partiality among young people. The truth is that, as you said, this is part of a consequence of the productive model that causes structural precariousness and goes from generation to generation. In view of this, we are particularly concerned about how European funds will be used, especially as regards youth employment. A priori, from what we have seen from the government's proposals for Europe, it is true that there is a prioritisation of young people, but we are obliged to read the small letter too, and in that sense we wanted to say to you that we see with concern the approach of improving businesses; to improve businesses, after all, it turns out that many of them have not even proposed hiring someone else and that, therefore, for a few thousand euros less they will not end up hiring a young person. Another concern we have in this regard is that the companies that benefit from this are the ones that have to pay less Social Security for their workers, thus emptying the Social Security hut, as my colleague Jordi Salvador always warns. Of particular concern are those structural changes that can enable us to emerge precisely from this precariousness of structural youth, as I mentioned at the outset. After all, it is about making the changes that were made at the time and that have affected my generation do not now affect future generations as well. In that regard, we are concerned that the two labour reforms are not intended to be repealed directly, as you have always argued. More specifically, we wonder whether or not they are planning to recover the salary of processing, which, as you know, allows us to guarantee a defence capacity for young people. We look forward to a government like yours precisely because you have always advocated the repeal of labour reform. Therefore, in this sense, we would not understand that statements... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u73	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rosique. Madam Third Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u74	Thank you for your reflection, which I share. I want to clarify some issues and some data. It's not just 40% unemployment, it's that you were talking about temporality. It is not a country for young people when we have the same young people at 52% of the time. Look, in March and April, when we lost more than 800,000 jobs in our country, one in three was a young man. I therefore believe that these data speak for themselves. It is true that we are very far from 56% unemployment at the time of the People's Party, but I do want to clarify a few things to you. In the so-called component 23, which is going to modernise the Spanish labour market, the bonuses are going to change completely, because there is a conviction - also from your group - that they are a dead weight in the economy and do not serve the objectives we have set ourselves. Secondly, in component 23 you will see that we are talking about a rule, the Royal Legislative Decree 3/2012, which was adopted on 10 February of the same year. That is the so-called Labour Reform of the People's Party, and I am already telling you that we are going to repeal the Reform of the People's Party, but we are going to do more. [[Applauds]] Thirdly - and very quickly - we are going to deploy, as you said, very large investments, with very large amounts, just to try to change the sign in the youth employment policy. There are three very important programmes, although there are many more: the Tandem programme, as a first dual training experience, but with insertion in the labour market linked to the localities and, of course, the Investigated programme and the first job opportunity for young people. But, I insist, thank you... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u75	Thank you, Madam Vice President. - OF THE DEVELOPED DON OSKAR MATUTE GARCIA DE JALON, OF THE PARLIAMENTARY GROUP EUSKAL HERRIA BILDU, WHO FORMULATES THE VICE-President OF THE THIRD AND MINISTER OF WORK AND SOCIAL ECONOMY: WHAT intends to take over the dismantling of the labor reform? [[File number 180/00531]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u76	Question by Mr Oskar Matute García de Jalón, MEP Euskal Herria Bildu.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u77	Thank you very much, Madam President. Madam Vice-President, tomorrow a year ago we signed an agreement between our group and the groups that make up the government to repeal labour reform. Nineteen days ago the Workers' Commissions and UGT went out to the streets on 1 May with a very simple slogan: Now it is time to comply, in clear allusion - as they then expressed - with the repeal of the labor reform. A week ago you yourself in the framework of a few working days of your own group pointed out that you have to spend time searching for the easy tweet to find solutions to people's everyday lives, and we think nothing more everyday than the working conditions of the people currently living in the Spanish State. Yesterday and today it pointed out the intention and determination to repeal the labour reform. We would like it to go a little further in clarifying this point. That is why we ask him: What intentions do you have in time and form to address the dismantling of labour reform?
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u78	Madam Third Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u79	Thank you, Mr. Matute, for your question. I am warning you, yes, we are going to repeal the Labour Reform of the People's Party. [[Applauds]] And I tell you more, allow me the discretion because the Social Dialogue Bureau has been working for two months. I myself - and you too - will submit and report to this House if at the end of December this work is not completed. But he did anticipate that beyond labour reform we have to do many more things, such as modernising the labour market. I give you a data: before 2007 we had a temporaryity in Spain of 35%, which speaks very badly of us as a country. Therefore, I insist, it is not only the labour reform of the People's Party, which has caused unprecedented destruction in our country with the greatest wage drop in history and the massive impoverishment of the working classes. I'm not saying it, the former Minister of Fatima Báñez has said it in this House. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u80	Mr. Matute.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u81	Yeah. The truth is that we have no problem in subjecting ourselves to the control of this House, as I said, to see whether or not labour reform is repealed. It won't be for asking and demanding. In any case, coinciding with what it pointed out and without demeriting the framework of social dialogue, we sincerely believe that it already touches because every day with it - and in that we surely agree - is a day more of added punishment for the workers in the face of an increasingly uncertain and increasingly precarious future of work. We believe, by providing solutions, that it is up to us to recover the indefinite ultraactivity of the conventions. We believe that it is important, and we say so, to recover in a short time the work authorization for the EREs, because we are witnessing an unjustified cascade of EREs, as the courts themselves are pointing out. Two weeks ago PCB and ITP as a clear example, but it has been almost a hundred days - on Friday they are 100 days - the workers of Tubacex because of an ERE, which we fear will be unjustified. We believe that the application of the corporate agreements should be repealed, we believe that the mandatory state prevalence of the agreements should be repealed and we also believe that compensation should be recovered prior to labour reform. We share with you that great changes are coming, that changes are coming that will affect the model of society and that changes are coming that will affect the labour market and the productive fabric. We once again extend our hand to bring about winds that will put an end to the wage gap between women and men, that will put an end to youth insecurity, that will put an end to fear or fear of losing work and that will put an end once and for all to this labor reform, that of 2012, and the continuity of other labor reforms that have only made the workers poorer. As I am convinced that you and we agree and share that those who generate wealth are the workers, it is the time, it is the opportunity, that it is not them and they who pay for this transit to a new reality.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u82	Madam Third Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u83	Thank you, Mr. Matute. I fully agree with your thinking, but perhaps for clarity in this House. What we are going to do - you pointed out - is, first of all, to seek a rebalancing in the negotiating action that the People's Party has broken. This is fundamental to achieving this which we have been taught in the faculties of law, which is the tuitive nature of labour law. Secondly, what has to do with the validity of the conventions, the ultraactivity. Thirdly, Article 41, substantial change in working conditions. Fourthly, although it is not a labour reform of the People's Party, it is one of the most precarious elements today because of the conjunction with the company agreement, which is article 42, subcontracting, which has happened to the housekeepers, who once were housekeepers and today are popularly known as 'kellys', for the reason of cleaning a room at three euros an hour. We are going to do much more than all of this, we are going to address precariousness, we are going to ensure stability in contracts. Indeed, you cited Article 51 when we were talking about EREs. Yes, the Labour Reform of the People's Party prevents us from acting today on those collective redundancies that are now so much talked about by the opposition. Indeed, you are right that we must look for a formula that allows us to act. In short, thank you for your question and we have all your contributions. [[Applauds]] - Mr Albert Butran PAHISSA, the Joint Parliamentary Group, which forms the Vice-President of the Commission and Minister for Labour and Social Economy: what are the measures in the field of work undertaken with the European Union? [[File number 180/00530]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u84	Question by Mr Albert Botran Pahissa of the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u85	Thank you. The Vice-President, on two occasions today, said that the reform of the labour market was to be repealed. The truth is that it is the commitment with which both his party and the PSOE came to power, although at the time of agreement the legislature was poured water to the wine and concreted in those more harmful aspects. And now that they have referred to the European Union a series of measures in the field of labour - component 23 - we see that there is much talk of flexibility, but there is hardly any talk of concrete action towards this repeal of labour reform, and our question is this: will the commitments with the European Union in the field of labour be reduced?
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u86	Madam Third Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u87	No, not only are they not going to mean cuts, but, being humble, I think we are going to tackle for the first time the great labor transformation of our country, which has not been done in forty-two years of democracy. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u88	Mr. Botran.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u89	That great transformation is beautiful words, but we do not know in favor of who it will be. We know that the simplification of contracts is an issue that the employer was also asking for and is not in favour of the fixed ones. Precisely the labour reform implied a reduction in compensation and the disappearance of processing wages. Retrieving these two aspects would mean that the fixed contract was really solid, not a fixed precarious one that means talking about a fixed contract with the conditions of the 2012 labor reform. Bonuses have also been mentioned, which is not an occupation-creating aspect, it is a reduction in business costs and a reduction in collection for public coffers. In formation it is also not a great transformation to blame the educational system for the unemployment that exists. The most educated generation of universities is emerging and is unemployed, so the problem should not be training. Nor do the retirement aspects of component 23 appear to be a transformation in favour of workers. However, those key aspects of the 2012 reform are neither expected nor expected. The administrative authorisation of EREs does not appear to be going to recover it. They have said that they want to find a formula and that is not a concrete specificity. Administrative authorization, processing wages and compensation must be recovered. You, minister, shield yourself in the social dialogue to be following a much slower pace to fulfill the commitments that led them to power: repealing labour reform. Do it without shielding yourself in social dialogue.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u90	Madam Third Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u91	Your Honor, we have a slight discrepancy. For me, social dialogue is very important and is a factor of democracy in my country, and I will continue to practice it. I think things change like this. [[Applauds]] Secondly, I think there is a certain lack of knowledge about what you are saying. It is true that component 23 speaks of internal flexibility, and that is what workers need in the face of what they have experienced in the previous crisis, what it was - if you remember - that we called external flexibility, that is, mass layoffs. It is therefore clear that it is key to incorporate internal flexibility measures, as we have demonstrated in this crisis with the ERTE so that people can maintain their jobs. Thirdly, although you do not seem to like anything, I believe that the bet we are making, and it seems to me that the Spanish Government is doing so rigorously and seriously, is to try to modulate the situation on the current labour market. You question the need or formulation of three contracts in which the contract par excellence is the stable one. I am a labor lawyer, this is my opinion and, like everything else, it is questionable in law, but it seems to me that this is the way forward: stability in employment. Anyway, I'd like us to walk and you guys to assess what we've done, too. What they can assess is what we have done so far, and so far - look - we have already repealed, prevented workers from getting fired when they are sick, we have completely circumvented the legislation of the People's Party. If that is not the case, today those in ERTE will charge 50% of their regulatory base. We have been completely on the verge of implementing the labour reform of the PP. We've made a law by changing an article that was very bad, article 13 of distance work, which didn't even serve the pandemic. I think it would be good if we were given some confidence and I insist that if before December this is not well done, I will appear, I will be accountable and I will do what I have to do. Thank you very much for your question. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DIEGO GAGO BUGARÍN, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, which FORMULATES THE VICE-President OF THE FOURTH MINISTER FOR ECOLOGICAL TRANSITION AND THE DEMOGRAPHIC CHALLENGE: HOW MUCH IS THE PRICE OF THE DIESEL AND GASOLINA TO BE SUBJECT TO THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE NATIONAL FUND FOR THE SUSTAINABLENESS OF THE ELECTRIC SYSTEM? [[File number 180/00538]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u92	Question addressed to the fourth Vice-President of the Government and Minister for the Ecological Transition and the Demographic Challenge. Question by Mr Diego Gago Bugarín, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u93	Thank you very much, President. Madam Vice-President, Mrs Ribera, we already know that a gentleman of high incomes - for example, Mr Iglesias, now on vacation - is very concerned about the rise in the VAT on Coca-Cola, which is very concerned. I'm saying that's why they were going to raise taxes only to the rich. But I ask you to explain today to the small carriers, to the small self-employed, to the farmers or, in short, to the 17 million people who have a diesel vehicle in Spain on what scale of the high incomes they find so that you raise the price of the diesel in the midst of the economic crisis. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u94	Madam Fourth Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u95	Thank you very much, President. Thank you very much, Your Honor. I explain this to you with great peace, because it is not true that the Government is raising the diesel to any of the collectives you are pointing out. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u96	Mr. Gago.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u97	Mrs. Rivera, don't be fooled. Its concept of ecological transition is assuming real fiscal hell and real job destruction. I told him here three months ago, but it's clear he doesn't care. When you raise the price of diesel; when you de facto raise the tax on enrollment, unlike the neighbouring governments of Italy, Portugal and France, we in Spain see how 39% of new enrollments fall. Or when you refuse to allow industries to operate on our coast, even if they meet environmental requirements, such as the Spanish cannery. Dozens of companies are leaving Spain to settle in North Africa and Portugal. Or if we talk, for example, about a key sector such as tourism, hoteliers, the holders of travel agencies have to observe how while you are doing virtually no control at Spanish infrastructure and airports, such as Barajas, you are inventing a new tax on air tickets, sugary drinks and packaging. That's the reality. Mrs Ribera, if we are talking, for example, about energy policy, when you attack the base industry, when you attack the electrointensive industries, such as aluminium or copper, which are essential for generating jobs and installing renewables in our country, you are ultimately attacking millions of jobs. I'm done with a question. The Minister of Labour has said here that she is going to repeal the labour reform. I ask you whether you lie here or lie in Brussels, and I would like to know whether you are really going to repeal a labour reform that is going to call into question and check the European funds. In short, Madam Vice-President, Mrs Ribera, as you expand your climate ideology, to Spain and the Spanish will be very bad for us. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u98	Madam Fourth Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u99	Thank you so much. I'm pretty surprised, because you're trying to lie, lie, lie, lie... see if any of those things end up believing someone. [[rumors]] I do not see canning companies going anywhere; registration tax has not been raised. I see, indeed, why you abstain from the Climate Change Act, because it continues to import you a path and remain anchored in the past. They still do not understand that the great transformation that we have pending to achieve access to energy at affordable prices and seeking in the transition to accompany workers and vulnerable consumers has to do precisely with a very significant transformation of our country, which is well positioned and requires the effort of all. You are talking about amendments, reforms that have not happened, and you are forgetting, however, the amendments, reforms and accompaniments that have not been made and that we are doing. So, if at any point you want to really talk about energy, about climate, you're going to have a lot of times. We will shortly send you a couple of very significant laws to see if they are a little more hardworking and constructive than they have been to date in terms of climate or the environment. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] - OF THE IGNACIO GIL LAZARO, OF THE VOX PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF THE INTERIOR: WHAT DEBATE DOES IT REQUIRE THAT THE MINISTER OF THE INTERIOR HAS PRESENT TO TAKE THE MANAGEMENT OF VASCAN PRISONS? [[File number 180/00540]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u100	Question to the Minister for the Interior. Question by Mr Ignacio Gil Lázaro, Member of the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u101	Thank you, Madam President. Minister Iceta, at the signing of the transfer, literally said: Debt paid. Therefore, Minister, what debt was to be paid with the resignation from the management of the Basque prisons?
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u102	Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u103	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you, Mr. Gil Lazarus. I see that you not only have a problem with the Constitution, you also have a problem with the verb working. If you were to read the written replies of the Government to this same question, you might not reproduce it in the control of the Government. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u104	Mr. Gil Lazarus.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u105	Minister, the old trick of trying to correct a statement that betrays the collective subconsciousness of the government. Put in the exclusive hands of Urkullu and Otegi the final fate of the Basque prisoners to continue relying on the support of Bildu and PNV in this House to Sánchez, that was the debt, that is the debt to pay. To get there, we had to liquidated the policy of dispersion, as you have done, with deception to the victims and contempt for the law. However, Minister, you know very well and this government knows that the worst is yet to come. With the release of the prisons we will see release, execution of sentences on release, and we already know that Sánchez, Urkullu and Otegi have committed themselves to seeking work and social housing for the murderers. Meanwhile, three hundred and eighty unsolved crimes, most of the prisoners without having asked for forgiveness, without having compensated their victims and without having cooperated with justice, and ETA, without having formally dissolved. That's the betrayal that involves handing over the prisons. A betrayal of the dead, democracy and millions of Spaniards tired of enduring the infinite moral misery of this lying and unworthy government. A government and a minister of the interior who today, with the city of Ceuta invaded, have definitively credited their weakness, their inability, their stupidity and their failure; indignity, failure and lies that are the common bond that unite Sanchez and Marlaska. Nothing more and thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u106	Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u107	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you, Mr. Gil Lazarus. He confirmed that you ask written questions that you don't mind reading. He confirmed that he does not follow the debates in this House either. I mean, he confirmed that you need to ask me these questions every Wednesday - I missed him in the previous session - to justify why early these days, Wednesdays. I'll explain the difference between debts and obligations. Law 6/97, on the transfer of traffic and departure from the Civil Guard of Traffic of Catalonia. Speaker of the law: Ignacio Gil Lázaro. Speaker in Congress: Mr. Seco. Look at what he said - I open quotes -: The political reason behind this proposal of law are the agreements of investiture and governability signed between the People's Party and Convergence i Unió - close quotes - specifically in point 11. This is called political debt, in which you have a lot of experience. [[Several ladies and gentlemen: Oooh!-Applause]] While the transfers for which I am asked arise from articles 148 and 149 of the Constitution and article 10.14 of Organic Law 3/79, which approves the Statute of Autonomy of the Basque Country. And what is constitutionalized and legislated - I remind you - is an obligation, not a debt, unlike the above. You, yes, you gave in, paid debts in terms of rapprochement of prisoners while ETA murdered, in terms of getting the Civil Guard Traffic Group - which you so much want - out of Catalonia. This Government, on the other hand, what we do and will continue to do is comply with the Constitution and the whole legal system, a very clear difference. You do know what debt is, what you don't know is the obligation of the party to politics in democracy. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.-Applause from Mr. Gil Lázaro, as he says: All right, all right.]] - OF THE MINISTER OF INCLUSION, SOCIAL SECURITY AND MIGRATION: DO YOU HAVE ANY OTHER SURPRISE PREPARED FOR THE AUTOMOS? [[File number 180/00537]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u108	Questions to the Minister for Inclusion, Social Security and Migration. Question by Mrs Macarena Montesinos de Miguel, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u109	Minister, we were surprised by the announcement by the Minister of Labour and were greatly concerned by the silence of the Minister of Ecological Transition when she announced that the Labour Reform of the People's Party will be repealed. Do you confirm the ad? Yes or no, because you are putting - if so - the arrival of European funds at risk. [[Applauds]] Well, do you have any other surprises prepared, in this case, for the self-employed? Because the pollution they have against them is inconceivable. Tell us in what survey of the CIS of Tezanos it is deduced that the autonomous are all opposites and enemies of the government of Sánchez and that for this reason they must be punished. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u110	Minister for Inclusion, Social Security and Migration.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u111	President, ladies and gentlemen, on the first question you raise, component 22 of the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan is available, it has a huge extension, it is enormously detailed and here is the road map of what the Government is going to do in modernising labour relations, we have discussed it extensively with the European authorities. Read it and see to what extent a substantive change is involved in any previous progress that has been made in that area. As for the self-employed, look, we are meeting with the self-employed today, precisely today. And it will be the fifth time we have reached an agreement with the autonomous since the pandemic began. In each of the other four times we have reached an agreement with them, the agreement has been expressed and that is why we are likely to have the most important protection of self-employed people in all of Europe. We have spent EUR 10 billion. When the pandemic began there were approximately 3.5 million self-employed members of Social Security, today there are 50,000 more. The previous crisis destroyed the employment of self-employed people by more than 500,000. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u112	Mrs. Montesinos.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u113	Minister, if you were not the government of the lie, you could believe the answer you gave me to the labor reform, but we will see if time takes away or gives reason to the sector of Podemos or to you. During the pandemic, you forced the self-employed to pay the fee when they had no income and denied the recipe of President Married: zero income, zero quota. Now they're hitting the self-employed with the new quote table, with a real tax blast. The self-employed were asking for income contributions, and you have done what you have done is penalize everyone. I will give you two examples: the self-employed with returns of 49 300 euros - which is not the same as the salary - will pay 10,000 euros more than this year; and bloody is the case of those who with a net return of 3000 euros will have to pay 1080 euros. A real fiscal hack, and to that add the hacking of the IRPF, that of the rise of the diesel, that of the registration tax, that of the insurance premiums, that of the tolls of the highways, of the roads, etc., and the elimination of the drawdown. Well, look, Your Honor, what is necessary is that you reduce this great government that you have once and for all, with twenty-three ministers, more than a thousand advisors, and that you do not finance an airline like Plus Ultra with 53 million euros, while you are expressing and asphyxiating the self-employed. Because for you the autonomous are an orange that they express and express, they take out the juice and when they have already obtained it all, they want it. You have not negotiated with the self-employed and are now doing so in a hurry. What they claim is to have a society subsidized and submissive to the Government of Sánchez and a Mastodontic State, and in that they will not find us, because we will fight for freedom and for equal opportunities for all Spaniards. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u114	Minister for Inclusion, Social Security and Migration.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u115	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, during the pandemic we have seen a number of attempts to intoxicate the self-employed and we have seen self-employed people who have not initially asked for the benefit they have received at the end of 1.5 million for false information such as the one you have just given. Because two thirds of the self-employed at this time, two out of every three self-employed, have real income below the contribution that would lead them to the current regulatory base, which is EUR 289. Therefore, the model we are going to, which we are negotiating with all self-employed associations, is going to assume that two out of three self-employed - two out of three - are going to go on to contribute less than they are now contributing because their real income is below. I am reading here the following: The government wants to raise the contributions to the self-employed for those who win the most. The Secretary of State for Social Security. But when I look down, I read: Thomas Burgos. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEVELOPED INES MARIA CAÑIZARES PACHECO, OF THE VOX PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF INCLUSION, SOCIAL SECURITY AND MIGRATIONS: WHAT IS THE GOVERNMENT GOING TO DO FOR THE AUTONOMS? [[File number 180/00541]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u116	Question by Mrs Inés María Cañizares Pacheco, Member of the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u117	Minister, what is the government going to do about the self-employed? But do not answer me the question with lies and demagoguery about what you think you have done for the self-employed so far, because the reality is that you have forced them to close your business, expropriated your right to work without any compensation and, in return, you have demanded to pay your social contributions, you have raised taxes, light, fuels and road tolls. And, after a year of pandemic and misery, they bring a real decree-law of aid from which they have not collected a euro and from which they have excluded half the autonomous.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u118	Minister for Inclusion, Social Security and Migration.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u119	President, Your Honor, I was looking at VOX's programme with regard to the self-employed and basically what it concludes is that they pay virtually no social security contributions. Of course, the level of inconsistency of that proposal with the rest of the things we hear about VOX constantly is frightening. You are systematically putting forward in the Toledo Pact a system of pure capitalization, that is: you will have pension according to what you rate and nothing else. And if the self-employed, as they say in their government program, do not contribute, they will have no pension or, alternatively, they will want to completely break the social security system because there will be no income to pay the pensions. It is that the level of inconsistency of your proposals is spectacular. We heard one thing and the other. Do you know what that's called? Populism, free populism. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u120	Mrs. Cañizares.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u121	He remains unanswered, but I will tell you that since he arrived at his express ministry his achievements have been to cut pensions to mothers with more children and to swallow with the minimum living income, which you criticized when you were a public policy assessor and which was imposed on you by the absent vice president. And now he wants to perpetrate a robbery by firing social security contributions from the self-employed. While we have 450,000 self-employed people malliving with the cessation benefit and 300 000 will definitely lower the blind, the government of the progress consensus applies to them the health cord and, without dialogue, imposes on them the greatest amount of contributions until the confiscation of their small profits. And it's that communism hates the self-employed because they're free citizens to manage their money, their schedules, their customers, and they're also free to choose their contribution base, and that's why Sanchez wants to charge them and you'll be complicit. It is shameful that they intend to demand a self-employed person with 3000 euros of return to pay 2500 to Social Security. It is the dot for those most shaken by the crisis, which will lead many to unemployment or the submerged economy. Minister, you have gone from being a star economist from Spain to crashing against the Spaniards, from being the Pepito Grillo of public finances to a wild minister to the dictate of a communist minister who assumed the best part of the ministry, and at the service of an unworthy minister of the interior who amends the plan regarding the migratory invasion we suffer. The goal of its reform is to raise more to pay for its party, like the 2 million euros of the reform of the palace in which it has been installed. You live in your imaginary multicolored country that traps the self-employed to give the money to Plus Ultra or the media. Minister, how we have changed, what has happened to us. History will remind you as the minister who betrayed the autonomous. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u122	Minister for Inclusion, Social Security and Migration.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u123	President, Your Honor, I will quickly use the long minute that remains for me simply to prevent the self-employed from continuing to be intoxicated with the data you give, completely false data. Three hundred thousand autonomous have closed the blind? If there are more self-employed members of Social Security at this time than there were in February 2020, before the pandemic. That has not happened in any country in Europe and that is for all the benefits and support, the EUR 10 billion that we have agreed in each of the four agreements that we have concluded with them and that we will close in the coming weeks from the meeting that we have today. We have had the best relationship with the self-employed throughout this period and that is the result, that at this time there are more self-employed assets than there were before the pandemic, which is truly surprising. I just explained the real income to your partner. Two out of three self-employed will go, with the system that we are also agreeing with the self-employed, to contribute less because their real income is lower than those that now lead them to pay 289 euros from the regulatory base, which is the minimum of the self-employed. And self-employed people receive pensions far below the rest of the wage earners, 70% below, and that should not be the case either. We want self-employed people who can contribute more and have better pensions, of course. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEVELOPED WOMAN GOROSPE ELEZKANO, OF THE VASCO PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMS THE LORD MINISTER OF UNIVERSITY: HOW ARE YOU GOING TO SOLUTION THE SITUATION OF STUDY STUDENTS FOR ACCESS TO UNIVERSITY IN CENTRES OF THE VASCO COUNTRY OF THE FRENCH STATE AND DESIRING TO ACCOMMODATE THEIR UNIVERSITY TRAINING IN THE VASCO COUNTRY'S AUTOMOUS COMMUNITY AND THE FORAL COMMUNITY OF NAVARRA THE NEXT CURSE? [[EAJ-PNV]] [[File number 180/00528]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u124	Question addressed to the Minister for Universities. Question by Mrs Josune Gorospe Elezcano from the Basque Parliamentary Group [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u125	Thank you, President. Minister, good morning. From the Basque Group we are interested today in a situation... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u126	Excuse me, Mrs. Gorospe. I'm asking for silence, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u127	Thank you. We are concerned about the situation resulting from a change in the curriculum of the French State in studies equivalent to baccalaureate. As a result of this change, the recognition of the former subjects of Mathematics and Biology has changed and this affects the students of centres of Basque territory in the French State who want to study and continue their studies in our university system, in universities in Euskadi, for example, in order to continue their training in Basque, being one of the few alternatives. If this situation were not changed for this exercise, their desire would be truncated. That is why our question, Minister, is whether they are going to give a solution to this situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u128	Mr. Minister of Universities.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u129	Thank you, President. Your Honor, I thank you for drawing attention to an issue that rightly concerns the Basque university community. As you know, in fact, the French Government has changed the subjects of mathematics and biology in the baccalaureate curriculum. This has created small discrepancies with our curricula. This issue, which I don't think is very serious because mathematics doesn't change as we cross the Pyrenees, we are trying to solve it with an agency called University Application Service for International Students in Spain, which depends on UNED, which has competence in all communities to assess the conditions of equivalence. I think we're gonna work it out, but on two levels. On the one hand, in the short term. Since discrepancies are minimal, the ministry is asking this service to accept for this year's EvAU these small equivalences and these small changes that can be perfectly resolved. On the other hand, in the longer term, we are trying to solve this problem and we have already done a number of things that I can tell you. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u130	Mrs. Gorospe.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u131	The truth is that it gives us good news both in the short and in the long term, because we have asked the question with a local approach, but the problem is general. Policies for access to university in different regions of Europe are uneven and this often hinders the mobility of this student who, by pursuing pre-university studies in one region, wants to change and continue his education in another. We would like the ministry to move forward in the long term, in the medium term and the sooner the better in the constitution of this European educational space that is planned for 2025, thus removing those barriers to the mobility of this student. We would like to see, and the desire of the Basque Group, EAJ-PNV, that state and Community legislation should include, for example, areas such as Euroregions that facilitate stable links or cooperation instruments that can contribute positively to university, linguistic, social, cultural and economic links and, in this way, be able to establish and make mobility much wider and, in our case in particular, that the mobility of students between the Basque territories on both sides of the Pyrenees is a reality, because we need it and the different actors are asking us to do so. It gives us good news, we only hope that in both cases they will be fulfilled. Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u132	Mr. Minister of Universities.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u133	Thank you, President. When I mean in the long term I'm talking about next year, that is, from the year 2022. Here are two topics. Firstly, at the recent summit of French and Spanish governments, the Minister of Education and I have signed four international agreements in order to be able to really solve all the issues of equivalence and, in particular, the issues of equivalence of notes throughout the baccalaureate, not only for the case of the EvAU, but what are the notes given in France and Spain. This is already in a treaty between the two countries, and on the basis of that treaty it will be launched. Secondly, I was in Brussels two days ago at the meeting of European Ministers of Education, where we have already addressed this issue for Europe as a whole. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u134	We are now dealing with the appeals addressed to the Government. The Joint Parliamentary Group's urgent appeal to the Minister for Territorial Policy and Public Service on the Government's proposals for the resolution of the political conflict in Catalonia with the Spanish State and on the progress of the dialogue table. [[Mrs Vehí Cantenys]] For your defence, Mrs Vehí Cantenys has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u135	Thank you, President. Good morning, minister. They're gonna let me start with Ceuta's images. To the children, the Spanish Government responded with soldiers. I'm sorry about the pictures. Minister, the general approach of this inquiry is that there is already a government in Catalonia, or there will be this very week, and you are Minister of Territorial Policy. You are a deep connoisseur of Catalan reality and Catalan politics, so the question is clear: what is your road map? In the investiture speech, we already told the president, Mr. Pedro Sánchez, that we were quite skeptical of the government's capacity or willingness to dialogue. We also told Esquerra Republicana, when she supported the investiture, that we hoped to be wrong, and that if we were wrong we would be the first to recognize it, but that we did not have much confidence in this dialogue table. In 2019, you spoke of the possibility of a referendum and, in fact, in October 2020 you made statements saying that if independence exceeds 50% of the vote, the independence movement would have more strength to negotiate a referendum. Again the referendum on the table. The truth is that this has happened, independence has exceeded 50% of the votes with two very clear slogans in the electoral programs of the three parties: amnesty and referendum. So, how are you going to focus the dialogue, Minister? We are skeptical, but because of the political nature and interests of the PSOE, not because we are against dialogue. In fact, we think that there will be no more way to resolve this than by voting and with a referendum. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u136	Excuse me, Mrs. Vehi. I'm asking for silence, please. Get out of the Chamber if you want to have conversations, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u137	To the People's Party this talk of referendum and resolution of the conflict must seem like a joke, because they are used to ruling as they did on 1 October, at baton, when it does not seem fair to them. Let's go back to the dialogue. We are in favour of dialogue, but it seems to us that the limit of the Spanish Constitution is a limit that does not serve us as a tool, because it neither allows referendum nor allows amnesty, according to the interpretation made by the PSOE. And if there is no referendum and there is no amnesty, which is the political proposal that mostly votes for citizenship in Catalonia - because it has to be recognized that you even brought down the famous Minister of Health and did not get more votes than the three independence parties -, if this is not the proposal, this is not dialogue. It's what Fontana was talking about, which unfortunately left us a long time ago. He spoke of the historical cycle between the repressive will of the State and the emancipating will of the people. This historical cycle, briefly, could begin in 1900. In response to the Manresa Foundations, the Government of Silvela introduced a paragraph, the offence of rebellion, article 248 of the Criminal Code. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen of the PP, don't shut up, you could listen to me, because I think this has quite a connection with the situation that is now. See, article 248 of the Penal Code: Attacks on the integrity of the Spanish nation or independence in all and part of its territory. Occasionally it looks quite like the speech you often have. Look, the year 1900, here begins the judicial persecution of political Catalanism. Minister, year 1934: Llei de Contractes de Conreu, the Llei de rabassaires, against the big owners, in favor of the Masonry and the rabassaires. He sits at the Constitutional Guarantees Court. The same year, 1934, the entire Company Government was imprisoned, to which an amnesty law would then apply, for having declared the Catalan State in the framework of the revolutionary process in Catalonia. More than 74 dead and more than 250 people injured. A mirror from October 1st; saving all historical distances, but a mirror. Francoism, a repressive machine that also had differential in Catalan key. Or the Spanish Constitution of 1978. Solé Tura, in his memoirs, that article 2, that of the indissoluble unity of Spain, was written directly from the Moncloa. They did not let the constitutional paper decide how the article would be drafted. We don't know if from the Moncloa or the Pardo, but the article was written. Or we can talk about the process of building autonomy. Xavier Domènech speaks, in his book Un faz de nations, of the constant will to drown asymmetries with processes of homogenization on the part of the State. Do you know what this means in Catalan countries clau? Because this is not just for Catalonia, it is to prevent the joint institutional reality of Catalonia, the Valencià Country and the Illes, and this was an explicit will to build the state of autonomy. In 2010, it was the ruling of the Constitutional Court against the statute that the Constitutional Court became the third legislative chamber of the Spanish State. In 2014, after the 9 November consultation, there was another legal persecution of those responsible for the consultation, with high penalties. And in 2017, referendum of October 1, repression of thousands of people, prison, exile and correction of Catalan institutions. Minister, having made clear this trajectory of the Kingdom of Spain towards the Catalans' aspirations to become a people, to have sovereignty, to be able to decide, what is their proposal for dialogue? Are you going to follow the historical milestone we just told you? Are you going to follow the historic wake of the Kingdom of Spain to systematically suppress and not provide any democratic solution to the conflict? You know, because you know very well the Catalan reality, that the independenceist left is not independenceist just because of a cultural and national demand, but that behind there is a whole reasoning of the need to have sovereignty in order to be able to make transformative policies, and that is where the Constitution is also not a valid tool. The Spanish Constitution does not serve the social transformation needs of our people, nor of our people, nor of any people under this State, which is precisely a prison for the people and the poor. We want sovereignty over a Spanish government that is a drain of public money, and from this the management of European funds, which go directly to large companies, is a reliable and recent proof. We want sovereignty over a Spanish government that, despite calling itself the most progressive in history, refuses to regulate rents, raise taxes to high incomes or investigate franchising. Let me quote here, Minister, the irony of Judge Garzón. Judge Garzón was a protagonist, led the persecution of Catalan independence in the 1990s and was allowed much to do with Catalan independence; in fact, they denounced certain human rights violations, torture, when they left prison. But do you know why Judge Garzón is punished? He is allowed to torture, but is punished when he decides to investigate the Gürtel, the corruption of the People's Party, the most corrupt political party in southern Europe, and when it comes to investigating the pits of Francoism. This is the Spanish state, this is the Spanish Constitution; a constitution that is hostage to a European Union centered on the needs of the countries of the north - they will remember the famous discussion about the frugal countries and the conditions that had to be imposed on the countries of southern Europe -; a European Union that is responsible for the drama of Ceuta, which is responsible for the deaths of thousands of people at sea for years; a Spanish Constitution that prevents sovereignty, which prevents all sovereignty, and we, fundamentally, want to be able to decide and make politics for our people. We once told President Pedro Sánchez: We think that the PSOE has given up doing politics for its people. The PSOE acts from the Spanish Government as a branch of Brussels and the European Central Bank; the truth is that it is not very different from how the PP governments have acted. The PP governments have systematically patrimonized State institutions at their service and the PSOE, instead of reversing all this patrimonialization dynamics, has tried to make some reforms, but at the end of the day it has not gone to the central element of the issue, which is sovereignty and being able to make politics for its people. We do not want to give up on this and that is why we ask you again, Minister: What is your proposal for dialogue? If the Spanish Constitution does not serve to resolve the conflict in Catalonia, if the Spanish Constitution does not serve to make the public policies that people need in a crisis situation, what is your proposal, Minister? Ours is clear, and Catalonia's citizenship has been meridianly clear: referendum and amnesty. And the votes are silly, democratic ethics is insistent. Again and again people in Catalonia vote the same: referendum and amnesty. Will you respond to this demand from the people of Catalonia? Because so far neither repression nor coups nor the courts have changed reality, which is silly: referendum, amnesty and sovereignty, Mr Iceta. I ended up quoting one of our references, a historian who dedicated her life to the study of the Catalan movement, of independence, and to contribute from the academy to our people, Eva Serra. Eva Serra said: Mr.Iceta, will you be at the service of your people? [[pronounce words in Catalan]] Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u138	Thank you, Mrs. Vehi. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs Cepeda. I now have the floor, on behalf of the Government, for the Minister for Territorial Policy and Public Service.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u139	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning. Mrs Vehi, thank you very much. Two things can be done in a Parliament. You can come up with a written intervention and leave it whatever you have been asked or how you have been asked - it is usually more boring, but also safer -; I, on the other hand, tend to risk a little more, in the sense that I believe that, out of respect for the House and its Lordship, what I have to do is to respond to what I have been asked, even though that may sometimes lead to some problem. See if we're far away, because you've seen some soldiers repressing some children and I've seen some soldiers save children from drowning. [[Applauds]] Look how far we are! I'm not telling you right now, but I think it's in El País, today, on a cover photo. Therefore, we must all be very careful. Since respect for opinions, I know that your honor is absolutely committed to human rights and therefore your sensitivity is proven, you do not have to prove it, but I believe that you must also make an effort to be objective. What the National Police, the Civil Guard and the Spanish Army have done has been to defend human rights, the first of which is the right to life. You ask me what road map we have. Look, we, dialogue. We have been waiting for a long time to have with whom; it seems that we are going to have him, thanks, among others, to the party representing his lordship, which, if I may, with affection, with respect, with affection, has been the midwife of the agreement which seems to have been reached, and it is curious, because they got it through a four-point document, the first of which - and I fully share it - said: to respond to the economic and social crisis that our country is suffering - and here everyone who puts the country that they want -. Well, that's where we're at. We have proposed - we proposed it, I have the date here, it seems to me that in February 2019 - the agenda for the reunion, and that is what we propose. We say: Let us agree to make a better Catalonia in a better Spain. That is our proposal. You say: I have little confidence. I'll try to increase it, but I don't know if I'm gonna get it. The starting points are very different, Mrs Vehi. You don't believe in the unity of Spain, you believe that the best thing that Spain can do as a country is to disappear and become something else, and we don't. Finally, his approach is respectable, it would be missing more, but what we cannot confuse is the dialogue with the obligation to be right. We all think we are right, but we should not all think that others have an obligation to give it to them, because that would really prevent the debate. I, in fact, have said many times: Having more votes gives more strength to negotiate. But what Democrat can deny this? Well, in this House we'd probably find some, but I think we'll understand each other in this area. Now, more votes... I must say that I rise to this rostrum as Minister of the Government of Spain, but I cannot fail to say that I am the first secretary of the party to have the most votes in Catalonia. [[Applauds]] This has been so; not thanks to me, thanks to Salvador Illa, but this is so. And you say, "Here you'll have to vote. You say: A referendum. Look, I want us to vote on an agreement, and you would rather have a break-up voted on. That's right. They are different perspectives, but the two are equally democratic. You have not mentioned the word today, but I believe it is behind your approach and you will not feel offended if I use it. You and your party defend the right to self-determination, and you believe that that would be the basis of any solution to the political problem we face. I must say that I do not believe that self-determination applies to Catalonia. We could certainly set ourselves up on a very long argument, but allow me only to quote a resolution of the United Nations General Assembly, the 2625 of 1970 - not very long - which says the following: Any attempt to break completely or partially the national unity and territorial integrity of a country or the political unity of sovereign and independent States is incompatible with the purposes and principles of the Charter of the United Nations. I say this because, from our point of view - and, as always, with respect for anyone else - the right to self-determination is a mechanism which, from the point of view of the United Nations, is intended to resolve colonial situations. You may say to me: It is that Catalonia is a colony of Spain. And I will tell you again that I must respect your opinion, even if you do not share it at all. Spain is a historical construction in which various peoples have joined, sometimes in agreement, sometimes in disagreement, sometimes the result of wars or marriages. That is why I have said many times, and I am not tired of repeating it, that I am an absolute fanatic - if I may express myself - or a fan of the shield of Spain, because it explains to us how we have become what we are, and it explains to us - this is my interpretation - how we must continue to be from the respect of the parties, but never giving up building a common project. Look, in this House all the political forces with representation are gathered, which express very different views. For example, today, in a question to the Minister of the Interior, we have heard that we do not want to comply with the Statute of Autonomy of the Basque Country, approved by this House in 1979, with the vote of UCD - I did not think that there would come a time when I would want it, but I must tell you that sometimes, seeing what there is, one longs that UCD -; when there was already terrorism, when there were already deaths, when all the Democrats were fighting against ETA, it voted a statute of autonomy that granted the Basque Country full powers in penitentiary institutions. Well, there are parties today that want to deny that possibility. You complain about the Constitution. It says: The Constitution does not work. Let me do a very risky thing. Let's imagine that I give him the reason and tell him that the Constitution is useless. What would we have to do? Reform it. How would we do that? Through the established procedures and majorities. There are no shortcuts, and I believe that in Catalonia, although in this we surely also disagree his lordship and I, outside the law there is no way; it has been tried, but there is no way. One cannot unilaterally repeal the validity of the Spanish Constitution or the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia. You quoted Jordi Solé Tura - I thank you, because any reason to remind those who preceded us in the anti-Franco struggle, in the struggle for democracy, is a source of satisfaction for many of us - but Jordi Solé Tura in that book that you mention also highlights the effort that led to that drafting that also guarantees the right to autonomy of nationalities and regions. Nationalities; I remember at that time Don Manuel Fraga Iribarne opposing the inclusion of this precept because he considered that, being a nationality synonymous with a nation, including it in such a prominent article of the Constitution was somehow putting the unity of Spain at risk. I am in favour of reforming the Constitution, I tell you clearly. We have said that on many occasions. The Socialist Party has documents detailing the constitutional reform that we would see as positive. But I have to say two things: one, I know perfectly well that the reform we are proposing is absolutely unsatisfactory for its political approach - I do not want to ignore it - and, two, that the Socialist Party - in this I think is consistent with its history - says: I have a proposal for reform, but I am very aware that it is only feasible if we can achieve a very large majority in that reform. You have quoted many episodes of the history of Catalonia and also of the history of Spain - because they can hardly be separated, if I may - and I must say that the constitutional history of Spain is very sad. For too long some were making their constitution so that when others won, they would change it and do the opposite, and so they would go. I believe that since 1978 we have had the right - if I may say so, Your Honor - to have a constitutional framework that has lasted more than many of the constitutions we have had and in which various interpretations have been possible. I know that there is a party in this House today that you would like to delete - you have said it and you have the right to say it - Title VIII of the Constitution. Not us. So, you tell me, what's your perspective? Dialogue. We are aware of the existence of a political problem and want to dialogue to get closer to its solution. I will also tell you that we do not believe that this solution arrives in a magical, total, definitive way and from one day to the next. Therefore, we have suggested that we approach many things you say. You say: It is that the Constitution has not allowed us many things. Well, I must say that we have reached many agreements on issues that were contentious between the Generalitat and the State for interpretations other than the Constitution and the competition framework. Therefore, welcome be the dialogue, welcome be the Government that you have contributed to the formation of, if that is what we believe should be every Government, and it is to govern for all, to think about the whole of society, to think especially about those who need it most and to agree with others to solve problems that overwhelm us all. That's our idea and that's our attitude. I'm afraid I won't have given you any more grounds for trust, but if I may ask you one thing: let's see what happens and then judge. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u140	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Vehi Cantenys has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u141	Thank you, Minister. It is appreciated that you do not come with the written papers, the truth. About Ceuta, ten seconds. Save children or repress children. The truth is that social networks today allow us to have access to situations that are usually hidden. I've seen the military pull young people off a rock. I'm sure they're not all the military, but this has happened, and the violation of one person's rights is harmful to everyone, as you know. Therefore, children were certainly saved, but violations of rights have also been committed. The hot returns, for example, that you defended were illegal, are now being given in Ceuta, and this has to stop. You speak of agreement, of will of agreement. We have it, but we understand that the deal today is to put a few ballot boxes for people to decide. We are willing to lose, but in the ballot box, let people say, let them decide in which country they want to live and how. You say the CUP defends the right to self-determination. Yes, and his party too: Suresnes; it has rained a lot since then, but his party too. In fact, you have quoted the United Nations presentations in which you subscribe to the right to self-determination in colonial realities. True, we do not maintain that Catalonia is a colony to the use of the 1970s, what we do say is that conceptions have also changed and today the right to self-determination is recognized according to the democratic wills of the citizenry. Look what's going on in Scotland. Another referendum will be held; one has already been made and another will be made. Did you choose a colony for the use of the 1970s? No, no, Have the Scots voted on the democratic future of their people? Yeah, and they're gonna do it again this year. Why can't this happen in the Spanish state? New Caledonia... There are many examples, Mr Iceta, and this is not referring to the 1970s, this is talking about democratic wills. You refer to the UCD, the Transition, the constitutional presentation. We think that this bond has been broken, that is, the story, that story that explained to us that we all came from a pact and peace between Spaniards, that has been broken. And apart from the historical memory, do you know what day was completely broken? On the day that Article 135 was adopted in this House, which allowed the debt to be paid to Europe first than to public services. This link has been broken because the Constitution does not respond to the needs of the people, it responds to the needs of the State, and that is not democratic. We bet on those constitutional doctrines that understand that conflict is the way to win rights, and this was central to the 1978 Constitution at the time. We think it no longer serves us, but at the time the workers' conflict was fundamental to articulate the Constitution, for example. Why are you now obviating the national conflict in Catalonia? Why are independence obviating as a way to gain rights? Put in ballot boxes, Mr Iceta, make a referendum, which will be the way that will guarantee rights for everyone. The corporal. It will allow me to make some references to you, as a minister, to the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party and to what remains of the PSC: If you want to be part of the solution, put ballots, make a referendum and make an amnesty law. Stop politically pursuing organized Catalanism, which all you ask is for people to vote. A Esquerra: Neither the PSOE in this format nor a Podemos that prioritizes the assault on the heavens over the reason of the peoples are useful to us. Counts back to the dialogue table. We'll be patient, but the truth is quite skeptical. And Podemos and the Spanish left: Federalism Republicanism, that beautiful idea that you proclaim, is not viable in a Spanish state based on the monarchy, corruption, repression and indivisible unity of the nation. Take the people's side. And the people, and the president ended, I know I'm running out of time...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u142	Yes, it has to end, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u143	To the people: A hundred years after the assassination of Layret, the political tradition of independence and left-wing Catalanism is more valid than ever, than it wants a better future for its people, who are willing to do everything. Thank you, President. And excuse me.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u144	Thank you very much, Mrs Vehi. To conclude the debate, the Minister for Territorial Policy and Public Service has the floor on behalf of the Government. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u145	Thank you very much, President. Thank you very much, Mrs Vehi. There is a big discrepancy - we don't have to fool anyone - but you have missed something that also occurred in Ceuta, an attack on our borders. Our people, the Spanish people, have the right to defend their borders. Forgetting that I think it's forgetting one basic thing. You say the PSC and the PSOE defended self-determination. If you have the patience to read the texts of the constitutional debate, you will see that there it came to say the following: We exercise our right to self-determination through the vote favorable to the Spanish Constitution. Therefore, being the self-determination - it would lack more! - defendable, we what we always wanted was a free Catalonia in a big Spain. We always wanted it. We have utopias, some can even be shared - I don't know -; to say one, that of the United States of Europe. We are federalists, because we believe that the best response to a legitimate demand or demands for sovereignty and the interdependence that the world has defined since the twentieth century is to find mechanisms, federal-type articulations. But we do not want to raise the issue of the word either, because what matters to us is the content, and I say to you that we would like to work on that content. You have cited examples. I don't know whether Scotland will vote this year or not; I don't know. I know there are many, even the Scottish government, who want it; I don't know. But it is that the history of the United Kingdom is different from ours, and I do not tell you anymore the situation of New Caledonia, which - forgive the joke - is far from us. What we really want is to decide between all of us and to vote on an agreement. But to vote on an agreement, it is necessary to reach that agreement, and it is not going to be easy. You say, of course, what's left of the PSC... Look, the PSC is Catalonia's first match, and we hope it will grow. [[Applauds]] But I want to stick to what I thought was most relevant to your speech - perhaps not to you, but you said it with some emphasis -. If I didn't point wrong, and that's my summary, I would say something like this: We will be patient, but demanding. I want to thank you for the willingness to patience, which will obviously not be indefinite, nor would it be good if it were. We hope that there will be a Government in Catalonia, that there will be a President of the Generalitat who will contact the President of the Government of Spain and that they will agree to the meeting of the Bureau for Dialogue. Some reproached us that we had no limits. It is that dialogue, if sincere, cannot set limits. What must be known are our positions. We do not share the independence project and do not believe in the right of self-determination. And our Constitution prohibits pardons of a general nature. You defend, and have full right to do so, amnesty. Amnesty, from our point of view, is a practical thing in exceptional times of regime change, when what is called into question is not the concrete application of a law but a whole legal system, which is what happened in 1977. Therefore, we do not think it is feasible now; in fact, I believe that the Members of the House and a majority of the Bureau have already spoken. Therefore, we insist over and over again that there is no solution outside the law and that unilateralism is not an answer. I understand that you defend the theory that conflict allows for progress. What I'm saying is that we are not going back - and I'm not saying who; I'm saying everyone - to try to find shortcuts where there are none, because the shortcuts haven't moved us forward, but they have pushed us back, they have involved a judicialization of the policy that we all say we reject, and they have left us with some wounds that we must all mend. There is the Government of Spain, there we are all going to be, and there is, above all, the President of the Government, who, as you recalled, in the investiture debate adopted certain commitments, affirmed a political attitude and a full willingness to dialogue, which we intend to practice to its ultimate consequences. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u146	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] - the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress, on the provision of a payment-for-use system in the network of state-owned and life-saving vehicles, included in the plan for recovery, processing and resilience formally submitted to the European Commission on 30 April. [[File number 172/000107]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u147	Urgent inquiry by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress on the provision of a system of payment for use in the State's road network and extendable to the rest of the roads, included in the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan formally forwarded to the European Commission on 30 April. For your defense, Mr. Lorite has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u148	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the Government of Spain, at the meeting of the Council of Ministers on 27 April, approved the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan to send it to Brussels. It is a plan on which the collection of substantial European funds depends. [[The Lord]] It is a plan that has been drafted without any dialogue with economic and social actors, with parliamentary forces, with autonomous communities or with local entities. It is a plan which you have concealed, for clearly electoral reasons, until the elections in the Madrid Community have passed. How could they not hide it if that plan represented an unprecedented fiscal shambles, a massive rise in Spanish taxes? The only goal you had was to fry the Spanish again, the middle and working classes, on a tax-based basis. At a time of weakness, Minister, the economy is reactivated by countercyclical measures. However, you chose just the contrary, to bring us to ruin with a massive rise in taxes, with an increase of 80 billion euros, and, by the way, without a single measure to reduce productive expenditure, that is, its waste. Every time you govern, Minister, you put your hand in the pocket of the Spaniards, you squander, you fill the lists of unemployment and you lead us to an economic crisis. Mr Ábalos, among your shortcomings with the dictatorial regime of Maduro, with your vice president, and the companies areas linked to that and, now, your economic approaches, you seem to be reincarnation of Zapatero. [[Applauds]] Minister, the charging of the road network, the tolls, is a very damaging measure - as I was saying the other day - which, in addition, is fraught with competitiveness and economic recovery. The measure of payment for use on the roads, by the way, appears in the plan without any concreteness, and that is why I would like to ask you a battery of questions. First question. Which roads will this measure apply to? Because sometimes you say that it will only apply to the high-capacity network of the state and others say that it will be extendable to the rest of the tracks. Mr Ábalos, you have lacked respect for the Autonomous Communities and local authorities, who are also road network holders and with whom, however, you have not engaged in any dialogue whatsoever. Another question. Mr. Ábalos, who are you going to have to pay for these tolls? Because, if we listened to what you said in August 2019, what would be applied would be soft tolls for all users. But if we were to respond to what you said in November 2020 at a symposium of the Mobility Observatory, they would only pay for those sectors that benefit from infrastructure, with which they become competitive, that is, you were referring to the transport sector, both for goods and for travellers, by road. Therefore, Mr Ábalos, what is your model, that of soft tolls for everyone or that of tolls only for the transport sector? Mr Ábalos, there is a question that you already have an answer, and that is when this measure would begin to be implemented. Do you know why? Because your election clock never fails. The measure will begin to apply after the next general elections. That is to say, you intend to approve it, but another government will apply it. Mr. Ábalos, how much are these tolls going to cost? Sometimes you talk about 1 cent per kilometre and sometimes you talk about standardising at European levels and charging between 9 and 12 cents per kilometre. Please note - I will give you a fact - that the increase in the cost of transport with this measure of 12 cents per kilometre to transporters would be 18%, which would undoubtedly be transferred to the market and, therefore, who would pay it would be the final consumer. The price increase that the final consumer would assume is transferred to products such as the extra virgin olive oil of my land, of Córdoba, or in the Iberians of Los Pedroches or in the furniture manufactured in the city of Lucena, also in Córdoba. In the end, the end user and the end consumer would pay for this increase. Mr. Ábalos, what is your model? I mean, do you have any models? Mr Ábalos, consensus cannot be sought without even having a proposal. Consensus cannot be sought without prior dialogue. Have respect, especially to the transport sector, to which you have abandoned during the pandemic. The same government that did not attend to our transporters blocked during Christmas in the United Kingdom or in the face of the effects of the squandering Filomena, the same government that has not set up a euro of direct aid to the sector, the same government that does not attend to the transporters when they ask for the elimination of the tasks of loading and unloading, the same government that gives an economic blow to all the productive sectors by raising taxes in 2021, that government that brings us an increase in the tax on diesel, registration and circulation, that government intends to to put tolls on our transporters. Mr Ábalos, these transporters feel absolutely deceived by you, because you committed yourself in writing to the National Road Transport Committee on 23 July not to impose any kind of toll, any kind of Eurovignette without the consensus of the sector, but now you approve this measure in the Council of Ministers. With that commitment you avoided a strike, which was a fair strike, scheduled last summer by the carriers against you and your negligent management. Now, they feel deceived. It's nothing new, because you deceive everyone, Mr. Ábalos. How many meetings have you had with the transport sector to deal with this matter? I'm telling you, none. Nor has it had them with economic and social actors, consumer and user organisations, autonomous communities or parliamentary forces. None. Minister, how do you ask us for consensus and agreement when these measures have not been disclosed, when there is neither an economic model nor a concrete proposal, when there are multiple contradictions and no social commitment? How dare they ask us for a state pact for infrastructure? In these three years he has only been able to reach agreements with the independenceists in the General Budgets of the State, giving them those gift checks, which could also be defined as tolls. His improvisation and his election clock made him eliminate tolls on highways. Do you remember what you said at that PSC rally? He said, "If you want the AP-7 toll to be free, that's why you have to vote for us." But you had no alternative to finance maintenance and maintenance costs. And now you have given an official character to that proposal to impose tolls. Mr Ábalos, you lied to Parliament last Wednesday when you answered a question I asked you. He said - I read literally what the Journal of Sessions says -: He is asking me as if we had raised the measure and the only thing there is a reflection. Mr. Ábalos, how dare you, don't you give him a slap? Government agreements are not reflections in any case, they are executive acts. [[Applauds]] Today he will also come with that study a decade ago, sure, he always brings it under his arm. And I will tell you one thing, the Minister for Development, Mrs Pastor, transposed, without imposing any kind of toll, the European directive which in 2011 urged the Member States to charging. Facts, not words, Minister. And in order for you to be permanently taken away from your desire to continue lying, I will continue to read the Journal of Sessions, in this case of 2012. The then minister Pastor replied to his colleague Mr.Siancas when he asked her about this issue of tolls. The minister said to him, 'Lordship, we do not contemplate it, because you know that this is not the right time. A few days ago, I just met with the National Road Transport Committee. You know, like me, the situation you're experiencing right now is road transport. If Spain takes measures that make them close... companies, we have a problem; we would be helping to abandon the activity.' That was a responsible government, Mr Ábalos, a government that refused to impose tolls. You are doing the opposite, even though the transport sector contributes more than EUR 11 billion a year to the state's coffers through the hydrocarbon tax, with the cost of maintaining the road network below EUR 2 billion a year, including the reverse motorways. Mr Ábalos, to talk about the cost of conservation and maintenance the first thing you should do is your duties and execute your budget, execute your funds, manage well. In the year 2019 you stopped executing 3000 million euros in investments of your ministry. But if we go to the budget execution of 2020, the last year closed, you only executed a little more than 60% of the funds available. Mr. Ábalos, before you put your hand in the pocket of the middle and working classes with the tolls, you work, spend your budget, because this is not the time for these kinds of attitudes or forms. Nothing more and thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u149	Thank you very much. The Minister for Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda then has the floor on behalf of the Government. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u150	Thank you, President. Thank you, Mr. Lorite. The Government of Spain has two major priorities, to get out of the health crisis, for which it is essential to continue with the vaccination strategy, which is under way, and economic recovery. To make economic recovery a reality, we have launched the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan, Spain Pode. Within the framework of this plan, the Ministry of Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda will manage nearly EUR 17 billion, and our forecast is that they will generate more than 470 000 direct jobs and involve a contribution to GDP of the order of EUR 34 billion. Investment will focus on the urban agenda and housing and sustainable mobility. Within this block will include about 1 billion for intermodality and logistics and 800 million for support to the digitisation of transport companies. It is in this context that such structural measures must be seen. As regards payment for use, what we have said to the European Commission is that we are going to open a debate on the financing of the road network, always under two premises. Firstly, that the solution to be decided must come from the hand of agreement, consensus in Parliament and with the transport sector, which is a basic premise for any response. Secondly, that this would never be implemented before 2024, because, indeed, what is needed now is an anticyclical policy. Welcome, then, to Social Democracy, Mr Lorite, because this is the first time that in a crisis it reacts precisely in the countercyclical sense. This was not the case in the previous crisis, when the People's Party Government acted on the contrary, clearly in a pro-cyclical manner. This is the first time that this has happened, and it is partly thanks to and fundamentally thanks to the European plan, which allows us these resources. That said, I have not just understood - let me say it, because I thank you for the tone - this hypocrisy in which they are entangled, because the studies on all this important problem were carried out during the People's Party government, were not done with any other. I have to thank you for giving me the opportunity to expand on this question rather than on the short questions, which always arise in an atmosphere of some confrontation; now we have the opportunity to do some pedagogy. Indeed, you have put forward a number of initiatives similar to this, but more deeply, because we have not developed anything. You ask me many questions and I would love to be able to answer you, but we do not have the answers, because we do not have any proposals, because what we want is to talk to the groups before and enrich that proposal. If there is none, then there will be none; it will be another attempt to address this issue. But we have no definite proposal. In 2012 she mentioned Mrs Ana Pastor - you made a proposal to the Delegated Committee on Economic Affairs - a very relevant entity; it is not the Ministry's cafeteria -. The document is not very long, it is a summary, although it is true that it has other attachments. [[the Minister of Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda, Ábalos Meco, shows a document]] In its presentation it is said - and I am reading - that the network of high-capacity roads in Spain per inhabitant and area is far above the average of the countries in our environment; that it is very difficult to manage an unbalanced road network with 20% of the network and 80% without charging - that 20% is now 15%, because we have increased the liberalisation of tolls - that the lack of charging road transport produces imbalances with the other modes of transport as it is indirectly subsidized; that it would be unthinkable a rail, port or airport network where only 20% of the stations and terminals were charged; that the budgetary resources for the maintenance and maintenance of the network are insufficient to prevent its deterioration; that this type of pricing measures have a strong rejection of the transport sector and society. I don't keep reading, but this is the presentation. The document is yours, the Government of Spain, at that time with the People's Party leading. This presentation is from April 2012. And to see that the situation continues, in December 2012 a study was published for the implementation of an open toll system for the network of high-capacity roads of the State, which also prolific. [[the Minister of Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda, Ábalos Meco, shows a document]] The measure was rejected, although it is true that in 2015 its Infrastructure Spokesman, Mr Ayala, was clearly in favour of its use in the medium term, in a few days that were done with parliamentarians. Later, with another government already following the investiture of 2016, they conclude another study, dated 31 January 2018 - that is, requested earlier - also commissioned by Ineco and entitled Analysis of financing systems for the optimal management of the state's road network. [[the Minister of Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda, Ábalos Meco, shows a document]] And in February, as a follow-up to this study, a proposal for high capacity network pricing estimates is proposed for various scenarios in the 2021 horizon. Here we talk about all the rates, in short, all the tariff tables. I can get it to you, if you want, plus I think I'm under an obligation to do it. There we were talking about paying, but with a difference, and I explain myself. While in the 2012 proposal you talked about charging 3 euros every 100 kilometers to passenger cars, 6 euros every 100 kilometers to heavy vehicles type 1 and to heavy vehicles type 2 -5.50 every 50 - 11 euros every 100 kilometers, in 2018 you propose to charge between 2 and 2,03 cents per kilometer for light vehicles. That was his last proposal, the one of 2018. This Government entered in June and let us say that it aborted that measure. If you had followed in the government, this would be a reality. On the other hand, Mr Casado has now taken the picture with the transport sector. He says no, but I don't know if he'd dare to do one with the construction sector, which tells me something else about the People's Party. Anyway, you have the right to have whatever position you want, I don't discuss it. The Government has simply wanted to open this debate. It has no definite proposal, but it wants to open it, although before it can open it it has already been subject to all kinds of control. With a little patience, we would have met and tried to address this issue, which is indeed structural and therefore cannot be left on the initiative of anyone in particular. This is a structural measure and therefore affects us all. We will only make progress to this extent by sharing some of the analyses of these studies, if there is a will to do so. This would have to be treated as a legal reform and, therefore, the majority of the House would be needed, and if there is no such reform, it is not worth presenting any initiative. The State road network is more than 26,400 kilometres long. Of these, 12,000 kilometres are of great capacity. We have a clear conservation deficit, as has already been said. The minimum requirements for maintaining the road network require at least EUR 12 billion per year, i.e. more than has been planned so far. I remind you that the budget for road conservation in 2011 was 1079 million. In 2012, with you in the government, it was reduced to 873 million. Interestingly, the minimum was reached in 2018, already emerging from the crisis, with 786 million. In short, you have been producing a deficit accumulation of about 300 million a year. That is the deficit we have, because it was not budgeted at the time. At the moment, in the 2021 budget we have increased this heading by 58%, and that is why we now have EUR 1239.98 million for roads. That is the effort we have made, even though we still have a structural problem. In the European context, as we are putting forward a proposal for Europe, we need to make some sign of alignment with Europe's policies. How we want to receive money from Europe, we will have to make some gesture, at least that of the commitment to study it. That's what this is about. We are going to ask for 140 billion from Europe. Only Malta, Cyprus, Finland and Estonia, which I do not think are very comparable with our country - at least for self-esteem - do not have their networks priced. Just those four. The rest are priced, in one way or another; some for heavy transport and others for everyone. The countries of our entity have to ratify everything, and that is European policy, from which we want to receive resources. What did you do with the highways, now that you're so worried? Look, the radial highways were driven primarily during the governments of the People's Party, inflating traffic expectations and underestimating the cost of expropriations. They systematically extended the concessions. Without going further, in 2000 they extended the AP-9 for twenty-five years and the AP-66 for twenty-nine years, harming Galicians and Asturians. The Government of the People's Party Between 1996 and 2004, i.e. in just eight years, extended tolls on motorways in eighty-seven more years, ten more years for each year of government. It has been the Government that has granted more years of toll extensions to concessional highways. Finally, during the last years of his government, there was a significant conservation deficit in the State Road Network, which means, as I have told you before, EUR 300 million per year of deficit between 2012 and 2017. Of course, this has continued to increase. As I will then have some more time, I will tell you what we have done in this area. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u151	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Lorite Lorite has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u152	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, how predictable you are! He always does the same thing. In the first intervention you usually open the trunk of memories and when you close it, in the second, you open the tavern. So, today, before I open the tavern, I want to tell you that both scenes are the scenes of the lie, which is what you represent as no one in this government. Mr Ábalos, it is good enough to lie and, above all, it is good enough to lie to the Spanish in parliamentary office; it is good to come to the House to teach a report, a study a decade ago, because the tangible, the obvious, is that no previous Spanish government has implemented payment for use on motorways and motorways. No Government of Spain has adopted such a measure, except its own. I share with you a reflection, and it is that if one day the Government of Spain says that the measure related to the IRPF, which you have sent under that plan to Brussels, is a mistake, as Mrs Calviño said, or if another day you say that it is mere reflections that you have embodied in the Plan of resilience in the matter of tolls, what a spectacle you are giving in the Community institutions! What will they think in Brussels? What will the Community institutions think when they see the lack of seriousness and rigour of this government, which writes one thing and immediately denies it? You said in this rostrum a moment ago that it was about opening a debate with a view to consensus and with a view to agreement. Based on what dialogue? Based on what proposal? Mr. Ábalos, come in. I have asked you a few questions in my previous speech and you have not answered any of them at all. What debate do you open and with whom? If you have not met with the sector, if you have not met with consumers and users, if you have not met to deal with this matter with the parliamentary forces of this House, with the autonomous communities, with the local entities and with absolutely no one. If you do not open a dialogue, it is impossible, Mr Ábalos, to reach any agreement. And he complains that what you don't do is done by the opposition leader. What you have not done, which is to meet with the freight and passenger transport sector, indeed you have done Pablo Casado, of course, to know what the sensitivity of the sector is, which you have not done. [[Applauds]] That is what you should be made to look at, Mr Ábalos; that is what you should be made to look at. And if it is true what you have just said here, if it is true that it is a mere proposal that has no validity at all, it is very easy to correct the documentation you have sent to Europe, to Brussels. Correct, immediately change the Recovery Plan. Take that step out of the Recovery Plan and when you establish that dialogue and those channels for agreement and consensus, then you send it, but you sure as hell won't. Aren't you going to? Because you keep lying to the Spaniards. We ask you to do that and, in addition, to adjust your waste, to adjust your unproductive public spending, because it is also important to square the accounts. Not only can the accounts be squared by increasing revenue, but also by lowering expenditure, especially that unproductive expenditure that you, by the way, have often starred in your waste. Mr Ábalos, I have told you, it is neither the time nor the ways to apply tolls, but above all never, never, never is the time to lie, as you do permanently, to Spain and to society as a whole. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u153	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] To conclude the debate, the Minister for Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u154	Mr. Lorite, there's only one left for me to close the tavern. You've already opened it. On the other hand, may you tell me about this... [[Applauds]] I'll always remember the first time I answered him and what I asked of him. I failed. I asked him to appreciate what Parliament is and the importance of the forms in it. You haven't given me time to agree to any model. We have nothing and, moreover, we have a lot of doubts about what would be fair, what technology to apply, what rates, how to do it, because there is a lot of debate on this and many proposals. If you have followed the public policy debate that demands this, you will have seen that there are many opinions and experiences. Even inside Spain too. There are autonomous communities that practice it. There are autonomous communities, such as Catalonia, that are asking for the vignette. It is a model and the Basque Country applies another. With what, in principle, we do not agree with the porticos and the system already known. In fact, we've taken them where we've freed highways. You talk about lies and I talk about coherence. As soon as they have seen that paragraph in the reform plan, which does not plan for action, they have taken this out as if it were the great cause. Be consistent. You're a government party-so I consider you - or have you ever given up ruling again? Or do you think they won't get any more chances? Or do you think it's normal to curtail any public policy debate? This is a debate that you have had and that we are going to have all the governments one day or another. Give us the opportunity to make you a proposal, which we do not have at the moment. We have nothing but the reflection that you were doing, and that I have read, on the previous ministers. And don't tell me I'm presenting a document a decade ago because it's four months before we got to the government. In February 2018 - I've taught it - there was a pricing proposal - not recession or model - with a deployment date,2021, and I told you what costs it had. The only thing I can answer when you ask me when it's going to be implemented and how much it's going to cost is how much it was going to cost and when it was going to be implemented when you were ruling, because I have no other proposal. That's not lying, that's just showing you your big contradiction. I've already told you what you did with the highways. Now, on the other hand, I'm going to tell you what we've done. We freed all the highways whose concession was over. We have done this with the AP-1, in Burgos, with the AP-4, between Seville and Cadiz, and with the AP-7, between Alicante and Tarragona, 550 kilometers liberated, which is 55 million conservation that is costing the regular budget. Now, this year, this summer, we will put an end to the concessions in the AP-2, between Zaragoza and Barcelona, and in the AP-7, from Tarragona to the border; that will mean 480 kilometers more, free, but also 137 million euros more that we will have to assume from the regular budget. The elimination of tolls in these infrastructures is also a matter of social justice, also of equity. It makes no sense that some territories are paying very much and others do not pay anything, that this is the policy that has existed so far, of territorial aggravation! [[applause]] And that is why we are proposing a reduction of tolls, for example in the AP-9, which is going to be historic in Galicia, historical! That is the policy of this government! [[Applauds]] We have also increased the subsidies, of which the transport sector benefits greatly, by 60%; more than 106 million have been earmarked for the reduction of tolls, for the subsidy; even in the radials, which you have rescued, saving the same thing you have lit, we have lowered the rates even by 30% on average. That is the policy of this Government. And, from there, I believe that with these facts we can boast some kindness as to what our final idea would be, that it is no further aggravation, more burden-sharing among all and, in particular, to tune in with European policies, especially being so European. So there is no proposal, I'm sorry. If you want us to talk about proposal, I'm delighted, the first one I can offer is to yourself. And I even offer you something else: we can work it together, if you want. Now, if you tell me: There is no debate, I understand it too; there is no possibility in this country of talking about public policy. But how sad then that we can't even talk! Let me at least have a proposal that will get to have it or even invite you to more: let's do it. That's where I think I had the undersecretary of the ministry, who knew enough about it, and we could work; I wouldn't care anything about the parties that actually have the will to rule in this country. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u155	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] - the VOX Parliamentary Group, on the measures to be taken since the first Vice-Presidentship of the Government to end the situation in Spain after the state of alarm. [[File number 172/000109]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u156	Urgent inquiry by the VOX Parliamentary Group into what measures will be proposed by the First Vice-President of the Government to put an end to the chaos that Spain has experienced following the state of alarm. For your defence, Mr Sánchez García has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u157	With the permission of the President, I will address the Minister present, whenever he is questioned. Minister of Justice, the Government does not have the confidence of the Spanish people. I do not know if he had it at any time because it is known that his precarious parliamentary status led him to seek support from groups with which, in principle, he should not have agreed, according to promises made by the candidate for the presidency of the Government. And he even had to come, in order to arithmetically meet the requirement to the effect of the inauguration of the president of the government, to a deputy of Teruel; he sought him out of the corridors of Congress and found him. This already indicated the very low level of parliamentary support. Well, it's said to be legitimate, not legitimate. We maintain that on the basis of deception there is no legitimate exercise of power. In any case, there is a fact that shows that the confidence that that arithmetic could at some point mean has fallen, and that is that in the elections of 4 May, in the Community of Madrid, the Socialist Party has lost more than a third of its votes. You don't have the confidence of the nation right now, whether you like it or not. And whatever foresight Mr. Redondo does, that guru you have in Moncloa, this is the evidence to which you must surrender. It is explicable that the Spanish have withdrawn the confidence of the Government, and I say the Spaniards from among those who voted for you, because the rest had not been granted it before. Its situation, as I say, is precarious and well explained on the basis of its management, a very short management in time, in a circumstance - it is true - of extraordinary difficulty, but very short in order to cast this radical result of mistrust upon the government that the executive power plays in Spain. It is not possible, Minister - and this is a maximum of all political philosophy, except the totalitarian ones, with which you currently share certain elements, even because of your status as governmental partners of a totalitarian party like Podemos - there is no political philosophy that admits that it can be governed without the consent of the governor, and you, I repeat, do not have it. And the explanation, as I say, is simple, and you have hastened that this explanation today can be exposed with this force: it is due to its management, which was a calamity in the health crisis of the coronavirus or the COVID, and to the economic consequences of its management. I'm going to give you some data on something you know better than me, which is COVID mortality or mortality in Spain in relation to other nations. Spain is in the first places in the world in this mortality, that is, in the proportion of the deceased in relation to or according to the number of inhabitants. For example, Germany has 86 000 deaths out of a population of 83 million; Ireland, 5000 deaths out of a population of 5 million; Greece, 10,000 deaths out of a population of 10 million; Denmark, 2500 deaths out of a population of 6 million; Spain, 80,000 deaths - you say, because there are other figures, which are not those of government origin or source, which raise it to more than 100,000 deaths - out of a population close to 47 million inhabitants. We are among the first places in the world. Therefore, you cannot say in any way that your management has been successful, because these figures cast a result that challenges that statement, although still this morning in the control session and last week in the Constitutional Commission the First Vice-President of the Government insisted with a full mouth that this was a historic success. Faced with statements of this content, I don't know what to think, I don't know if she believes it or is simply deceiving the Spaniards, but I have to say that I don't like it either, nor the other, and I don't know what's worse; if she pretends to cheat, it seems to me to be an improper purpose of a ruler and, if she does, I don't understand how she can be in this lock and not make a reconsideration of the failure of management. As for the economic consequences, I will give you some data that I have received from the Economic Analysis Service of this House, Eurostat source. Change in GDP of the euro area - of the States of the European Union and of Spain - in the first quarter of 2021 compared to the same quarter of the previous year: euro area, -1.8; European Union as a whole, 1.7; Spain, -4.3. You have it here. Now, when I finished my surgery, he facilitated it. In these circumstances, it seems to me idle to insist on success, but, in the end, this is not what I want to put forward now, but I want to refer mainly - as the interpellation states, as it is formulated - to this of legal chaos, because there are also many errors about this, and I have to say that the errors share them - as so many of the past and, unfortunately, still in the present - with the People's Party. During the state of alarm - which has been prolonged for a long time and has known three different statements with their corresponding extensions - you did not make proper use of what the state of alarm allows according to the precepts of the organic law that develops it, along with the state of emergency and site. You failed to make proper use of the instrument facilitating the declaration of the state of alarm, which was ultimately to centralize at the head of the Government or of a delegated authority, which may be the president of the corresponding autonomous community when the State contracts to a territory, not extending to the whole nation. You did not use that instrument, and you did not, either out of ignorance, or out of dependence on certain government partners, either for a mistake or for whatever reason, or for an acritic repugnance to everything that means centralizing, even in an exceptional circumstance such as that of a state of alarm. You made an abusive use of the state of alarm, an abusive use in that you limited rights with such scope as to get into what would be the suspension and, therefore, in fraud to the state of emergency, as regulated by the organic law that develops it, in fraud to the Constitution and with an obvious abuse of the instrument of the decree-law. To this end, I refer to the last ruling of the Constitutional Court, which considered the reform of the CNI to be unconstitutional, the sole purpose of which was access to it by Mr. Iglesias, former President of the Government, and Mr. Redondo. I do not say this, the Constitutional Court has said that, by the way, it is helping you very much - I must say - by handling the times in the resolution of the appeals brought before it, but in this case your pronouncement has been decisive. There is also a clear indication that you have abused. You still do not provide this group - which has requested and had to sue the General Administration before the Supreme Court - with the reports issued by the State Advocate for the purposes of the initial state of alarm, his statement and successive extensions. Reports which, it seems, expressed certain doubts, or even opposition, to what you have been systematically doing, I insist, by going to an extraordinary institution without taking advantage of its virtues and by distorting it and incurring an abusive government. Then came an intermediate phase, the overcoming of the plan of descalation, approved on April 28, 2020, with a calamitous execution because there was not what was called - and it had universal diffusion - the technique of dance and hammer. It is To say, there was no verification of the reinstatement to the activity, but it was all at once and without a gradation either by risk bands in the population, by age, or by affected areas or sectors of activity requiring greater or lesser presence of workers in their jobs, etc. Finally, after a period in which Spain was not under this state of alarm, you come again to the institution for a political purpose, which is to confront the President of the Community of Madrid; to face up because she had decided to take certain measures that seemed to you insufficient, causing, by the way, with great clumsiness, the emergence of this lady as a figure in national politics, when she was not until then and was quite abandoned by the apparatus of Genoa. Finally, you have exalted her to that stellar post and from those dusts these muds, for you, not for Spain because, fortunately, this lady has had a satisfactory result in the elections on 4 May. And finally, a final statement of the state of alarm, which gives rise to a very short extension...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u158	Your Honor, you must finish. You'll have more time later.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u159	Then, as I am not finished, I will continue on my turn of reply and await your answer, if you will do so. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u160	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] I now have the floor, on behalf of the Government, for the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u161	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you, Mr Sánchez García, for your speech and for your interpellation, which will allow us to debate in Parliament on a subject that is generating much controversy these days. However, when the debate is raised in terms of faith and absolute confrontation, as you have done, little can be done. The People's Party takes advantage of this, because it has been launched to divide the country between good and bad with that overperformance to which we are accustomed, and so the debate becomes extremely farceous and difficult. A few days ago, someone as revealing as Daniel Innerarity wrote that 'planting political life as a battle between good and evil is tantamount to ending it'. And in that you, ladies and gentlemen, are in the process of ending politics. For this they have embraced the lie and have done so with such fervor that they banalize politics. Mr Sánchez García, you have delighted us for almost eight minutes -7:43 I have counted - with a speech on the role of the evaluation of politics, of the confidence of the citizens in the government, of what happened on 4 May and how - according to your opinion, of course - this is completely extrapolable to the rest of Spain. And I remembered these philosophical readings of adolescence when they told us about the syllogisms and traps they have, and they said, The apostles are twelve; John and Peter are apostles, then John and Peter are twelve. That is the syllogism you want to lead us to, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, we're not going that way. That way of fighting politics and democracy is neither new nor original, and they should already learn because the international scene shows us what the wrong paths are. I'm talking about Trump, I'm talking about Bolsonaro, to cite just a few examples outside our borders. Both the People's Party and you have been aiming at that car since the beginning of the pandemic, you have dedicated yourselves to dogmatizing the whole issue, the whole management of this crisis. The most absolute and radical evil, of course, the Government; the purest and most immaculate good, the truth and goodness, the Lords Married and Abascal. In this ridiculous scheme they have given them the same data on the incidence, it has given them the same mortality of the virus, it has given them the same jurisdictional division that our Constitution establishes, it has given them the same scientific evidence that at every moment has been available and, in general, it has given them the same everything that contributes to a balanced judgment of the situation in which we have found ourselves. Now, in a double mortal leap with tirabush, the opposition denies itself and defends the state of alarm as the holy grail. Expressly support when necessary? Not that, please, never! Ask him where they rule? Never! Attacking the government for not prolonging it? That's right, that's where we're first in line! All this, ladies and gentlemen, to tell you that I am going to try to escape from that unscrupulous framework in which you have wanted to get involved; on the contrary, I will try to bring facts and arguments. Ladies and gentlemen, since the beginning of the pandemic in Spain, three states of alarm have been declared, the last of which ended on 9 May. It has been three very difficult decisions, believe me, very difficult, extremely difficult I would dare to say, how difficult and painful it has been that we have lived these past few months, the sacrifices that citizenship has had to make, that we have all had to make. In many cases these sacrifices have entailed the restriction of fundamental rights, such as freedom of movement or the right of assembly, to name a few. And that is what we are talking about, ladies and gentlemen, about the legal framework necessary or more suitable to restrict or limit rights, with a single purpose, with a single objective, with a frontispiece: to avoid contagion. Those who today criticize the Government for putting an end to the state of alarm are also the ones who most severely attacked it for coming to it at the worst time of the pandemic; a legal and constitutional aberration came to say Mr. Casado. But the irresponsibility and disloyalty of the opposition does not exempt the Government from having to act with prudence and responsibility. Today, from the perspective of time, we know that the state of alarm has been a useful tool - yes, I stress, useful -, useful to bend the virus, has allowed us to gain time until the arrival of vaccines. But the end of this third period of alarm occurs in a very different context than the other two. Hospital pressure has dropped considerably; the number of contagions has allowed us to talk about a vaccination that begins to reach a truly hopeful figure: 26 million vaccines distributed, more than 7 million with the two doses, more than 15 million with at least one. Well, the Government has considered that the best option is not to maintain exceptionality and return to the regular regulatory regime. I think the motives are known, but I'm still going to repeat them. The main reason is that the alarm is no longer essential to combat the pandemic, and the emergency regime, by its nature, should only last as long as it is absolutely essential. As soon as possible, the obligation of a democratic government is very simple: to ensure that citizens and public authorities return to normality as quickly as possible. On this point, ladies and gentlemen, we follow the recommendations of the Council of Europe and other international bodies. The epidemiological situation today allows us to dispense with a state of alarm such as those experienced and to refer to ordinary legislation the adoption of measures to combat COVID-19. At this point, however, the situation is once again being used to accuse the Government of being responsible for the twelve plagues. As I said at the beginning, this is how the debate seems very difficult to deal with from the point of view of politics; rather than a debate, it gives the impression that what is intended is to confuse; to confuse and entangle, in a show of frivolity and irresponsibility. Look, ladies and gentlemen, as much as some are committed, to insist that the legal system does not allow measures to combat the pandemic is to deny the evidence, it is an excuse for not having to assume any responsibility. From a purely legal point of view, outside the state of alarm there is a wide range of rules in Spain that allow public administrations to take very different measures to deal with the current phase of the health crisis. At the state level we have a series of organic and ordinary laws on public health, with them we face the descalade last summer and other crises, such as Ebola. These are well-known rules, but I'm going to allow myself to remember them. Firstly, the Organic Law on Special Measures in Public Health, the third article of which provides that the health authority, in addition to carrying out general preventive measures, may take such measures as it deems appropriate to control patients and persons who may have been in contact with them, as well as other measures as may be necessary in the event of a risk of transmissible disease. We also have the General Health Act, article 26 of which also enables us to take other preventive measures that they consider relevant. Other significant standards in this area are the General Public Health Act or the Cohesion and Quality Act of the National Health System. Your Honor, it makes a mockery of the accusation that the Government at this time has not taken sufficient legislative measures, an accusation that comes out of the same mouths that not long ago accused the Government of legislative diarrhea. Many or few, public administrations, state and autonomous, have issued more than 3000 rules, including more than thirty decrees, to weave an extensive legal network to address the various problems posed by the management of the pandemic. Of the many legal norms adopted, I would like to highlight one, the Royal Decree-Law 21/2020, of urgent measures to deal with COVID-19. This law, now Law 2/2021, provides for a very wide range of measures of different types: prevention and hygiene for the general population; specific obligations for workplaces, health care, teachers and many others; measures in the field of transport, medicines; early detection; or measures to guarantee the capacities of the health system, as well as a sanctioning regime. But not only can the central State adopt and have adopted these measures. Autonomies have been and should continue to be one of the main actors in the fight against COVID-19 and, in fact, have at all times had normative competences on public spectacles, tourism, hospitality, restoration, museums, libraries, health, mortality, promotion of leisure and sport, education, waste and a long time. In the exercise of these powers, they have taken decisions as important as the closure of schools, institutes and universities, the restriction of facilities open to the public and of hotels, the closure of parks and playgrounds for children, the imposition of serious restrictions on sports practice and a long period of time. It is impossible to refer to the set of measures adopted by the Autonomous Communities, since they are extremely numerous. I conclude, ladies and gentlemen, by recalling that local authorities also have useful powers to contain the virus. Let me remind you that behaviors such as those that took place in several municipalities on the day the state of alarm was lifted could and should have been avoided by the municipalities, according to a profuse regulation of public order. Also at this point there is state regulatory coverage. In short, ladies and gentlemen, when the state of alarm falls, what remains - I am already feeling the shock - is not chaos, it is the normal functioning of the rule of law, which you do not like. It is not necessary to remind them that ours is a decentralized State, that the Constitution establishes a balance and a balanced division of competences between the central State, the autonomous communities, the provinces and the municipalities. That is precisely the value of our territorial organization, allowing the response of the public authorities to be adapted to the specific circumstances. And there are rulings from different higher courts that interpret the existing rules differently. Of course, the interpretation of the rule by the courts is consistent with the rule of law and the independence of judicial bodies, especially in such a sensitive area as the balance between the free exercise of individual rights and the necessary compliance with health standards and measures. I regret that they are disturbed by the normal functioning of the democratic and rule of law State, but these are the mechanisms that we have put in place in democracy. I regret that they are disturbed by the normal functioning of the democratic state, but, I insist, are the mechanisms that this society has been endowed with. In fact, ladies and gentlemen, some of these mechanisms come from Mr Aznar's Government, what a thing. It was at that time that we introduced into our legal system the channel for the judicial authorization of health measures restricting rights, a procedure which, in spite of everything, we consider appropriate and which in the last year the present Government has improved, and has done so with a clear distribution of jurisdiction and with a necessary remedy of cassation before the Supreme Court. It is very surprising that this system, the truth, is criticized. It is normal that in a democratic society restrictions or limitations of fundamental rights require judicial authorization. What alternative do you propose? That it be done by decree and without any control? It may be that some of your ladies and gentlemen are disturbed by judicial control or seem chaotic, but it is as it has to be, even if it is complex. Fundamental rights restrictions should not be comfortable in a rule of law. We do not want them to be comfortable for the institutions. These are sensitive decisions which must be subject to the principle of proportionality and which must be well-founded and well-motivated in each case. Does that sound like weighting to you, Mr. Sanchez? In addition, our current legal framework allows this game, with two qualified correction mechanisms for those cases where the courts refuse to authorize any measure that may be deemed necessary. On the one hand, the appeal of cassation for the unification of doctrine and, on the other, the request of the territorialized state of alarm. I believe that, in view of this review, the existing legal framework cannot, from any point of view, be considered insufficient; on the contrary, I believe that we have the best legal and institutional instruments to overcome the virus definitively. We are called upon to do so. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u162	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Sánchez García has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u163	No, Minister, VOX does not mind the use of the state of alarm, VOX supported in this House the first extension of the state of alarm; I was present in the two sessions, in the first one concerning the information of the declaration by decree of the Government and in that of the extension. You're wrong. The debate you are raising is totally false. Again you contribute to that falsehood, you from the government and the People's Party with your picturesque plan B, which is neither plan B nor nothing - and in this I have to give reason to the President of the government when it has been expressed in those terms this morning; it will be the only thing I will give it and without it being a precedent -. You have cited several laws that effectively provide legal cover for measures that can be taken to combat the epidemic, no doubt: Organic Law 3/1986, on special measures in the field of public health, General Health Law, General Public Health Law and also, of course, the Law on Cohesion and Quality of the National Health System Developing a provision of article 149.1.16.a, which confers competence in the field of bases and general coordination of health on an exclusive basis to the State. Fortunately, not all Title VIII is plagued with errors, some good is there, and this good certainly has its profitability. The problem, Minister, is that you, as I say, have not been able to use the state of alarm properly and that is why you have been withdrawn from confidence in the effect of successive extensions. And the height of destabilization was that you, in your third statement of the state of alarm - the one that gave rise to a six-month extension - against the law that regulates that state, arranged the delegation of competence at the head of each and every president of the autonomous communities in fraud with the law. [[Applauds]] The law only provides for the delegation at the head of the president of the autonomous community when it is a state of alarm in an autonomous community, not this story that you invented in tribute to the co-governance, to which you bow on your knees in an absurd, acritic, crazy way and against the interest of Spain. And contrary to the health and life of the Spaniards, the People's Party, which understands absolutely nothing of this. [[Applauds]] The People's Party has come to propose again in April this year the same plan B which it proposed in August 2021 and which already gave rise here to a debate with Dona Cuca, which remained at the height of the betun because it showed that it did not understand anything and knew nothing of plan B, nor of state of alarm, nor of nothing at all. Of course, the person responsible is not Mrs. Cuca, the person responsible is Mr. Married, who knows as little as she does. A disaster! They have no idea, they have no political resources! They don't know what to say and, as they don't know what to say, they say whatever nonsense is passed through their heads, and it also holds and doesn't make amends. [[Applauds]] Look, the Council of State - contrary to what Mr Casado says, which has not read the opinion - in its opinion of 22 March 2021 on a high consultation by the Government On the reform of the Galician health law, has said that all the measures that are considered possible under that legislative text of the Galician community - by the way, governed by Mr Feijóo - have coverage in the laws I have just mentioned, and in particular in Organic Law 3/1986, except one: compulsory vaccination. You read it, I have it here; you haven't read it and you haven't heard. And if they've read it, they still don't understand it or force it. It is nothing of what Mr. Married says that the Council of State has called for the regulation of a pandemic law! What is this gentleman saying? He doesn't know what he's saying. You, Minister, are just as responsible for this as the People's Party in this legal upsurge. They're so responsible because I'm asking you now, Minister. And if the state of alarm is not necessary, why was it declared and extended in this way? Can you explain it to me? If all this array of laws that you set out here allows, it covers all the sufficient measures to combat the epidemic, except for a general confinement, why did you declare the state of alarm and prolong it in such an abusive way? Why? I'm waiting for your answer. And what is the scientific basis of the general confinement, which has not proven its therapeutic or anti-virus efficacy? How is that possible? By the way that you have abused, without adhering to the order and end of the state of alarm itself, for your purposes, more or less equivocal and more or less erratic, and have ignored the instruments that the order sought them to be able to combat the epidemic after those initial moments when the state was declared and extended for the first time.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u164	Your Honor, you must finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u165	A total destabilization in which you compete, in this ridiculous Titans duel, with the People's Party. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u166	Thank you very much. To conclude the debate, I have the floor on behalf of the Government of the Minister of Justice. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u167	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Sánchez García, I find with surprise - I tell you in truth, in my heart - that something I have convinced you, though not entirely. I will try to find a new argument to see if in the end - although I see it difficult - we end up speaking the same language. And what I do see is tremendously angry with the People's Party; in fact, at some point I thought I was questioning them and not me. Of course it is necessary to analyse the situation. He was telling me and I was insisting that he answer him. I answer: because in that context the only viable option was to resort to the state of alarm; now, no. That is why I agree with you - and in fact I allowed myself to call it that way in a debate a few days ago - that this proposal by the People's Party is inhalable because it introduces a series of reforms in the Special Measures Act to incorporate an express provision enabling the health authorities of the different administrations to restrict rights within the framework of their competences; that is, to deepen the allocation of rights by providing them with legal coverage without establishing any judicial mechanism. They won't find me there. Nor is the case justifying the restriction specified in a specific way. In any case, beyond what I consider to be a part of the People's Party with that text, the truth is that you can and should discuss the legal needs required by the pandemic, so it is very easy for me to answer it, what you do not take into account is the epidemiological reality of every moment. Look, as I see it, at the bottom of the discussion is - after listening to it, I say it bluntly - the question of when and how a fundamental right can be limited or restricted in our country. At this point, as I have already said, our higher courts of justice are disputing, but these discrepancies do not stem from the need to change laws or much less. Most higher courts consider that Article 3 of Law 3/1986 provides sufficient coverage of health measures. Of course, such coverage is not indiscriminate but must be modulated according to something very simple, the intensity of the restriction of the rights concerned. Decisions refusing to authorise measures such as perimeter closures or curfews do so - simplifying the issue - for two reasons. The first, that trial that I have already talked about on some occasion, proportionality; that is, judges do not consider a certain measure restrictive of rights proportionate to the situation. Nothing to object to, for that is precisely judicial control. In any case, it does not appear that any reform is necessary from this point of view. Others - second reason - consider that the restriction of fundamental rights on a general or indeterminate basis can only be placed under the state of alarm. From this point of view, there is no point in changing the law; the right to take action would then be the right of exception, which is already provided for in the Constitution. In other words, the variety of judicial solutions that are being given to the issue is unspeakable since this is the first time it has been raised, but there are no shortcuts, ladies and gentlemen, we must stick to the constitutional framework that we have given ourselves. Finally, there is an additional argument that suggests no regulatory changes to facilitate the restriction of fundamental rights. I have already said that these restrictions should not be comfortable for any institution and under no circumstances. Now I add that they should not be introduced in times of crisis and in times of crisis; this is not the time to introduce generic empowerments that empower a single power without any control to affect fundamental rights. Our Constitution already has sufficient mechanisms and with them we have been able to defend ourselves against the virus in the worst of this crisis. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, no regulatory changes are needed or desirable in the sense that you are proposing. We have made every effort to provide us with better legal mechanisms to deal with this crisis. Now, when we see the end, we cannot relax or distract ourselves with the accessory, we have to put our eyes and efforts on what is clearly the most important thing, to vaccinate; to vaccinate and promote economic recovery, and that is what we are doing from the government. I have told you before and I repeat it again now, we are already talking about 26 million doses -22 distributed -, with more than 15 million Spaniards who have received at least one dose and more than 7 million, the two complete. COVID patients in ICU have decreased to 18% occupation. The incidence is below 147 cases per 100,000 inhabitants and we hope that it will continue to do so, in a clear, quiet but downward curve, and the data suggest that this improvement can be due to vaccination. That is our priority; I would like it to be a shared priority for the whole House, and that is why I invite you to do so. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u168	Thank you very much, Minister. [[A cleaning service worker disinfects the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u169	We continue with the motion resulting from an urgent inquiry by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress: for the government to explain the tax measures - tax increases or cuts - sent to Brussels on 30 April. Mr Paniagua Núñez has the floor for the author group of the initiative and for the defence of the motion.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u170	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. This government is full of half-truth experts who, when it comes to taxes, become directly complete lies. For Calviño, the elimination of joint taxation is a mistake. For Ábalos, the payment for the use of roads is nothing but reflections. And for Montero to raise all taxes is to harmonize taxation. Last week, the minister tried to invalidate our position by saying that we did not take Laffer's curve into account, and that is not true; on the contrary, we take it into account and support our tax proposal. The Laffer curve, as you well know, relates tax revenues and tax rates, and shows that the increase in tax rates does not always lead to an increase in tax collection and vice versa. The most important feature of this curve is that it indicates that when the tax rate is high enough, if it goes up even further, the revenues collected may end up decreasing. The tax rate is high per se or because it is high for taxpayers. This is our case; as our tax effort is very high, for us in most taxes the rates are very high and therefore we are in this situation of the curve. And this situation of the curve that advises is a lower taxation, which can increase the collection because it encourages activity and even foreign companies could consider settling here - that is, new collection - will increase consumption due to the increase in income, will bring part of the submerged economy and fraud and will reduce the cost of automatic stabilisers. And this we demonstrated six and seven years ago and we are demonstrating it in the autonomous communities where we govern and, seeing its drift, gentlemen of the government, we will have an opportunity to demonstrate it in a short time. But instead, you are proposing widespread tax increases, which have a negative impact on the collection, economic activity, employment and competitiveness of our businesses. In this year's budgets, IRPF, sugary beverage VAT, insurance premiums, company tax, companies, waste tax, plastic packaging tax, financial transaction tax, tax on certain digital services. In the Recovery Plan, the rise in diesel taxation, the rise in social security contributions to enterprises, workers and self-employed people - here no one is saved - the abolition of the joint tax deduction in the IRPF and the payment for the use of State roads. And, if that were not enough, they have set up a committee of experts to - I say quotes - 'bring Spain's tax levels to the average of the countries in our environment' - close quotes - i.e. raise taxes by almost EUR 80 billion. Wrong idea in taxes and aid, which have been scarce, late and full of formalities. The consequence is the disappearance of thousands of businesses and self-employed people who had a future; some businesses that, I remind you, we have forced them to close and now we let them fall. Our president, Pablo Casado, has made several proposals to them. A year ago, our economic shock plan provides work flexibility in the face of Yolanda Díaz' announcement to repeal the labour reform, which put funds at risk. He has already announced three times the repeal of labour reform. Secondly, tax cuts, as in other countries of the European Union, in the face of the massive rise in taxes of 80 billion to receive from funds 70 billion euros. Thirdly, direct liquidity to the productive tissue, as in other countries, in the face of inefficient collateral. And finally, reducing inefficient public spending against a huge and client-oriented government. Half a year ago we also proposed a recovery plan: to agree on the reform plan, to agree on compliance with the specific recommendations of the semester and to create an independent authority to manage the funds. Thirdly, on the funds of the European Union, we have proposed a medium-term structural project for each vector proposed by Brussels. As far as competitiveness is concerned, tax cuts to create jobs, as France has asked. Public resilience, Austrian backpack for labour mobility, as requested by the Banco de España. Fourthly, the youth guarantee, a young and family housing plan to revive birth, promote emancipation and improve the real estate sector, as requested by Draghi. Fifthly, digitization, rationalization and efficiency of public administration and the rural environment. Sustainability and a necessary hydrological plan for the tourism and agricultural sector. As regards territorial cohesion, rail freight corridors to boost the industrial and infrastructure sector. That is, in the short term, a plan to rescue the productive economy; in the medium term, a plan to rebalance taxation and radically change the approach of European funds and, in the long term, structural reforms based primarily on education and digitalisation. This is what we would have done, and we have offered it to the Government: measures and consensus. In this motion we call on the Government to cover only three needs of this country: transparency, foresight and commitment. Let him say what he's going to do, value it, and establish a medium-term path of deficit and debt, at least that. Basically the same is said by the AIReF in its report on the update of the Stability Programme 2021-2024. As the Minister of Finance said last Wednesday in the inquiry that - I open quotes - 'the AIReF is an organism that has demonstrated its solvency throughout this period' - I close quotes - I ask what the Socialist Party is going to vote for. If you don't want to listen to our group, at least do it to the AIReF. And I also wonder what the groups that support the Government will do. I am curious to know what excuse they will put this time to support the Government in its disgovernment if they vote against this motion. I understand the loyalty to a government with which you negotiate and reach agreements, and you believe that you support the government and that you are loyal, but I do not believe that you do, in this case and in some other case. In this case they only support their pride, their incapacity or their ingrainment. [[Applauds]] Because I remind you of what the minister told us last week at the interpellation. I open quotes: 'This government's fiscal roadmap is based on the Stability Programme and the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan which was forwarded to Brussels on 30 April'. I close quotes. If so, will it not be better for the Government and for the decisions it makes to comply with the two proposals of this motion? Why do you think the AIReF recommends it? Why do you think the Banco de España is asking you for something like that? Why do you think we recommend it? These proposals we are proposing will help the Government to focus and manage better in the coming years and will therefore bring us stability and better results, that is, well-being for all Spaniards. That is what we are voting on in this motion. I would like to ask you, gentlemen of the Government, to come back from 2050 to solve the problems of 2021. It's not much to ask. If you don't want to, step aside as you did in 2011. We cannot accept, although we appreciate, VOX's amendments because part of that information would already be in our proposal, and for the rest we consider it to be asking the Government to do our opposition work; rather if we get it to do what it has to do. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u171	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] In defence of the amendments put forward by the VOX Group, Mr Figaredo Álvarez-Sala has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u172	Thank you so much. Good afternoon, everyone. Today we are debating a motion from the People's Party. I have already announced to you that the VOX Group will support you, despite the fact that you have not accepted some of the amendments that we have tabled, and which I will now be discussing. This motion of the People's Party is very interesting and, of course, coincides in many issues with the ideas that VOX raises. It does not coincide, however, with one, and is that you in this motion point out that the People's Party has voted in favour of 52% of the real decree-laws brought by this government. It is that the People's Party and the Socialist Party look so much, so much more than you yourselves, perhaps, are aware. Apart from this annotation, VOX tabled two rather simple amendments to this motion. We were simply asking the government for transparency between what they said in Brussels, what they say in Spain and what they say in the Council of Ministers. We want to know how they have led those negotiations, what they have said there, how they have said it here, etc. And finally, let us know what your real fiscal strategy is, not mere lines, mere ideas, as Mr Ábalos said here today, because the Spaniards need certainty. I'm going to explain myself and I'm going to give them some depth. You, gentlemen of the Government, have moved one idea to Brussels and then here in Spain, another. It makes a lot of sense because the budget has been decommissioned to them. You've spent a lot more than you could at least have. You have been prodigals with the money of the Spaniards and have squandered the effort of the Spaniards, and that is why you have been forced to arrive in Brussels and say to them: gentlemen, let's raise more, let's get more money, please rescue us. This narrative is right; it makes sense. But, as they do not dare to say that they will increase the fiscal pressure in Spain, the Spaniards lie to us and come to us with warm cloths to hide the reality. That reality, which they have translated into a document, which, as we have seen, was nothing but ideas and general lines, really tells us nothing, does not allow us to know what taxes are going to rise, how much they are going to rise and how. It does not allow the Spaniards to make a forecast of the expenses they are going to incur for their reforms. And I say this because, when the Minister of Finance has been asked whether or not the taxes are going to rise, she has replied that not up to four times. When asked if the contributions were going to be raised to the self-employed, she replied: That is that they are not taxes. Of course, it's that for you the small letter is fundamental. Because, when Nadia Calviño is asked if she is going to eliminate joint taxation, because it is reflected in that report that you have sent, she says it is a mistake. And when Mr. Ábalos is asked if the tolls are going to go up, he says he doesn't know, they're just ideas. Conclusion: absolute uncertainty for the Spanish. And now what they do is refer to a council of wise men, whose identity we don't even know. It's just that we haven't been given the generals of who will form that council of wise men. We were only asking in our amendments that the Government should put coherence and predictability in the taxes that the Spaniards are going to have to pay, which we already know are going to raise, because we have already talked about taxes on diesel, taxes on registration, taxes on gas, sugary drinks, electricity, road tolls, self-assessment, insurance premiums, banking services and digital services. All these issues are seen to be exclusive to the wealthy classes. It can be seen that workers do not use the Internet or that they do not hire insurance. Here the key is that you don't give us that certainty and you keep talking about that you're going to raise taxes, that you're going to increase the collection. The People's Party continues with this narrative that there is a need to increase collection. They seem to understand. Maybe it makes sense. But what is sad is that neither party talks about lowering spending. When a family spends more than they enter, it's okay for them to look for new income, but they'll have to look to lower their spending. I think all the Spaniards who listen to us from their homes will understand. If I'm making a thousand euros and he spent two thousand, the first thing I'm gonna have to do is start spending less. First thing. Because you come here, you ask the Spaniards for an effort, but you keep getting into the official car, as if nothing happened. They continue to use the Falcon and continue to go on vacation to the Marismillas - authentic palaces and the life of kings - while the Spaniards exploit them as if they were poor servants. We ask you to start managing well what you have, to tighten your belt and to come and ask if you have so little shame. Thank you so much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u173	Mr Mazón Ramos has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group to set positions. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u174	Thank you very much. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen of the Group of the European People's Party, when reading the motion, the truth is that they want to vote no. I do not think it is necessary to use that tone to discredit the Minister of Finance or to remain immersed in that policy of the other you, in which neither of us is right. The CPP has spoken these days as a result of the latest information and we have a clear position on this. Now is not the time to talk about tax increases that affect thousands of companies that need to move forward or workers who are suffering a very serious economic crisis. At the moment, the best way to support workers is to support businesses, and that is why we call on the Government not to fire any more firewood, this fire caused by the pandemic, with a rise in taxes, taxes such as the debate and announced earlier for the use of motorways, which is not going to be accepted by Spanish society and, moreover, it is uneconomical because of the displacement of traffic to other roads and its worsening, because of the loss of the usefulness of existing resources, the transfer and increase of conservation costs and a greater burden on companies, for workers who use the highways daily and for citizens, who generally see their mobility reduced. Soon, when this pandemic passes, we will have to look for formulas to increase the collection, explaining well to the citizens their need and based on fiscal progressiveness, a principle that has always been defended by the Socialist Party and which we hope will maintain this executive. At the moment, we need to relaunch economic activity, giving confidence to the citizens, quite the contrary to the uncertainty caused by the plan that the Government has sent to Brussels and the lack of clarity in its statements. We will therefore abstain.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u175	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] You have the floor, Mr Sayas López.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u176	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. The plan that the Government has sent to Brussels directly is not a plan; it is a pamphlet because it is full of indecrees and opacity. No one knows what the Government's position is on some issues that are transcendental. This morning Mrs Calviño said that this is one of the best plans that have been sent to Brussels. If you are so happy to applaud the phenomenal departure of the Council of Ministers, then there is no agreement between the members of the Council of Ministers themselves. Does anyone know what's going to happen to labor reform? No, because you don't know either. Does anyone know what's going to happen to the pension reform? No, because you don't know either. What we all know is what's going to happen to the tax reform and they're going to fry us back to taxes. That is the only thing that has become clear to us, but it has not only become clear to us, it is that even in that they have tried to deceive us. They go to Brussels and say they are going to make some changes in fiscal matters, such as the issue of the joint declaration, and when they are caught they come to Spain and say: No, it was a mistake; no, it is that we are reflecting. Hey, ladies and gentlemen of the government, what are we playing at? 140 billion!, do you want to go thinking from home to Brussels? Because the measures that go into the plan will have to be reflected, because, if not, it is not a plan, it is a pamphlet, and that is what we are sending to Brussels. But, of course, what's going on, that now is not just that tax sabulage, but that now we are disguised as a commitment to green transformation, which is nothing more than a new tax sabulage, a bust in the pockets of the Spaniards to take their money and decide what you're going to do with that money. And so, with the drinks, the Government of Spain will raise 350 million; with the plastics, 500 million; with the incineration, 650 million. In total, 1500 million that you are going to take from the pocket of the Spaniards to decide for them once again. And in the meantime, a debt that is already reaching 125% of GDP. But have you considered whether it is not necessary, at once, to cut expenditure? Haven't you noticed that maybe we have a lot of superfluous expenses that we can't afford? The only way you have to deal with economic policy is to sand the Spaniards!, and the Spaniards are tired of getting their hands on the government. The only thing that has become clear with this pamphlet is the government's incompetence in economic matters, the government's incompetence to make a country plan, but luckily, this government is getting less and less every day. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u177	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Matute García de Jalón has the floor for the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u178	Thank you very much, Mr President. Again, we are in this rostrum to talk about taxation and taxes; I say again because they are no longer knowing how many consecutive weeks, and it does not take Nostradamus to know that next week we will also be talking about this again. On that occasion and under the excuse or pretext of the tax on motorways, we will have to hear again about the 80 billion euros tax increase, the sablazo - which someone will also say - fiscal that wants to involve all the taxpayers, and, in the end, to continue to support a speech, a reading or a story that intends to point to the government as responsible for an increase for the most disadvantaged sectors, and, in addition, to do so through the lie, because those are the two great words: fiscal sablazo and lies. And it is that, when you see the explanatory statement, you get rid of any doubt; that is, they talk about lies, they talk about all this that I have pointed out, but, of course, when you then see the operative part, which is really important because it is the one that we vote for, what you realize is that they are presenting an initiative that the Government could well have put forward, if they had made an amendment to it in a way of compromise, continue to promote, continue to work, continue to encourage, that is, what every Government does to skip the danger or risk of an issue and leave it deactivated. Therefore, the only thing that interests them in this debate, as usual, is to strengthen a certain narrative. And, surely, to deal with that story, that reality that you are trying to move, the best is the data. We have already done so on more than one occasion, we have already told you where there is money that can be recovered, the money of the banks, of the 60,600 million euros that were forgiven, of the 20,300 million euros that have been forgiven by buying the assets of Sareb, we could talk about corruption, that the AIReF - which they have mentioned so much as an element of control and impartiality - speaks of 90, billion euros that cost corruption in the Spanish State, corruption for which some parties present in this House are quite directly responsible, because they star and take it to their pockets. But they're not interested in any of this. We have also talked to them about how certain tax reforms that bring down tax rates benefit higher incomes so that lower incomes barely receive any improvement, and so that the state has less money. And here we go to the bottom line, because what is at stake here - and that is something that would be up to the ladies and gentlemen of the Government - is to put forward, apart from a battle of the narrative through the confrontation of data, a series of initiatives that determine what direction this government wants to take. And, of course, now that they say that the legislature is going to run out and now that they say that the worst of the pandemic has already passed and we can face the normality of political time, we must put into effect the programmatic agreements that have driven this government, carry out everything that was said. Surely we have to talk about a thorough tax reform, and I said it the other day and I say it now, we want taxes to go up, but to the upper classes. We want the tax to be raised to the great fortunes, we want the company tax to be raised and we want a COVID rate to be created, a rate that allows those companies that have made money during all this pandemic time, that have made money to the forks or to the sticks, to contribute from their patriotic gene or that want to have more public resources. We believe that labour reform must be repealed, because labour flexibility means de facto - for those who may be listening to this debate or for those who suffer it, who are many more than those who will be listening to this debate - that they have to work longer for less money and that they have to have an increasingly uncertain future; it is that being a mileurist is a chimera and not a starting point, and that is something that surely seems very reasonable to the People's Party, that they work for whatever it is and even if it is free, better, but it should not be allowed a social and democratic state of law. In addition, I believe that public resources must be enhanced, as well as that certain perversions of language must be dismantled. Why is it that every time someone comes up to this forum to talk about investments, he talks about public-private collaboration, he talks about investment like the money the state gives him with the money of everyone and all so that certain companies can settle in a territory, so that they can get tax benefits, so that they can then go away and move and no one can ask them for a hard one; why when we talk about investment we talk about these big IBEX companies that have grown big precisely with the money of everyone and all, because that money of everyone and all has gone to build unserviceable airports or underused roads; why we don't talk about all that, why we keep talking about all this as an investment and not as an expenditure and, however, when we talk about what as a society makes us move forward, we talk about public spending; we talk about health as an expenditure, we talk about education as an expenditure, we talk about social protection as an expenditure, we talk about employment policies as an expenditure. Is it not precisely these investments that a healthy and democratic society would have to make? Wouldn't it be a good thing to maintain that society had a reasonable health index for everyone regardless of their level of income? Wouldn't education be a reality for all and not just the elites to make progress in society as a whole? That is the debate that interests us and the debate for which we are asking the Government in one way or another to put concrete measures on the table; everything else is smoke at the service of propaganda to overthrow a Government, but unfortunately, to punish the working class even more.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u179	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u180	Thank you, President. Pick it up on. We have already had a few, as Mr Oskar Matute has rightly said, concerning these kinds of motions. Mr. Paniagua, you're talking about the Laffer curve. We do not share it; it is an economic theory that has been much discussed since the 1980s, but in Spain it has been shown that it is not correct, because there has already been a tax drop - and to the data I refer - and anyway the revenues fell, did not increase. He often uses the Laffer curve as a fetish to send simple messages to the citizenry that maybe is what they want to hear, but, if the moment of truth comes and they pass from opposition to the government at some point, they will hardly be able to carry it out or even take some surprise, especially because we are in a situation of great uncertainty. And you talk about reducing superfluous spending, but you know that this is not enough; if superfluous spending is reduced, there will be more efficiency, but it will not come to cover the entire welfare state, which is getting much bigger. I believe that here there is two evidence: on the one hand, that the pandemic arrived without having solved the crisis of 2008 and, on the other hand, that the pandemic is true that it has taken on a huge bill, but also a fall in revenue collection and, therefore, there is a mismatch of accounts and a public debt, it is true, around 120 %, a mismatch that is not only from Spain, but also from all European countries and that has taken on deficits over 3% of GDP, a threshold from which the excessive deficit procedure was used to activate, but which has been paralysed by Europe and is also being negotiated to maintain it by 2022. We understand that for the time being a less expansive fiscal policy is not appropriate, because we understand that social costs would be higher than profits. We therefore believe that it is necessary to postpone this fiscal consolidation and its design until a time when economic recovery can be consolidated. It is true that there will come a time when a plan has to be put forward, we do not question it, but, as I said, when the economy begins to bounce and not when the crisis caused by the pandemic has not yet been closed, when we do not have at the moment the fiscal ties of the fiscal rules that led to accelerated fiscal consolidations and, therefore, to greater austerity and recession, rules that have not proved effective and that have not worked properly. I do not think it is now a question of achieving an accelerated consolidation. The efforts to stimulate investment, productivity and, ultimately, growth, we believe that they should be ahead or, of course, above fiscal consolidation and once the crisis goes down. We must prepare the way, yes; prepare the way to address that consolidation, but do you really believe that now is the time for cuts? Because I think what it's going to lead to right now is a fiscal consolidation. We seem to have learned nothing from the previous crisis. You call for a fiscal consolidation that even when you were in government you could not resolve, the public deficit did not narrow according to those goals that were set. In their motion, they talk about completing the information sent to Brussels and implementing tax reforms and the medium-term tax strategy. We too want more information and concrete action on the reforms of the plan, especially those aspects that are essential, of course, for economic growth or, better, for the transformation of that economic growth, as you have said: labour market, pensions, tax reform and recovery plan projects. But we differ a little in how, because we do not want the Government to bring us here a plan, its measures and its concrete reforms, what we want is information, negotiation and agreement with the groups on the types of reform and its content. In short, let us talk, let us negotiate and that we have agreed not only with the political groups, but also with the other administrations involved and with the social partners. We do not want unilateral decisions, we do not want an accelerated consolidation plan, we do not want cuts and we do not want solutions without concrete or slogans such as talking about a fiscal consolidation programme as if it were the panacea, because everyone knows that the fiscal crisis is solved in two ways: increasing the collection or dismantling the welfare state. Today we have heard here also about redistribution. True, we too advocate a progressive fiscal policy to redistribute, but we also need to talk about wealth creation and perhaps not just about redistribution, as they say, but also about listening to some very current economists who talk not only about redistribution, but about redistribution. We will vote against it. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u181	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Martínez Granados has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u182	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday the press collected a data that I believe everyone should be concerned about, and the most concerned is, without a doubt, this government. Public debt goes up to 125.3% in Spain, which is said to be soon. We are now marking historical debt levels. We must go back to 1881 to see similar levels of debt in our country. But I give you another figure, because sometimes the percentages slip away from us. Debt has risen since the beginning of this crisis, 170 billion, a vertigo figure. And what does this government do? Up taxes. Now, as a novelty, give a new blast to the self-employed by making them pay quotas for disproportionate self-employment. They always go easy. You know what? It can be understood that debt increases in a crisis like this, but what cannot be understood is that this Government is left with its arms crossed, because that is what it seems. Well, no, not with arms crossed, what they do is raise taxes, which is what this government likes most. It seems a lie that the Government is thinking of a plan for the future by 2050 and that it has not yet taken seriously the plan that really solves the problems that now, in the short and medium term, the Spaniards have. They continue to cling to ERTE and ICOs as the solutions implemented to solve the entire economic crisis, but it is not enough. They're not magical situations and, unfortunately, they're going to go on without being. It is not enough, one year after the start of this crisis, that they continue to grasp these two mechanisms. This country needs far-reaching reforms to enable economic growth, the creation of stable and high-quality jobs and the promotion of entrepreneurship, but the bulk continues to flow, with patches and more patches. This reform is also called for by the European Union, and it depends on the future of our country, the arrival of European funds, and requires political consensus. I wonder how they will bring these reforms here to Congress, will they do so with the real decree-laws that they are used to bringing every day without consensus, without conversation, or will they do so in a responsible way thought and with consensus with the legislative changes that this country needs, talking to all political parties? We don't know what they're gonna do. Every time I listen to them say that we will be the country that grows the most, I take my hands to the head because what they don't count is that we will be the ones that have to grow the most, because we are the country that has fallen the most in economic growth during this crisis. That is the reality: we will have to grow more because we are the ones who have fallen the most. Get to work now, make the reforms we need and do it quickly because ERTE, that measure that has been important to the workers of our country, I will not deny it, can turn against it and become ERE. Make it quick because, if they do not recover growth, the ICOs will become the rope for businesses and the self-employed. This motion calls for actions that they would have to contemplate. In short, it calls for transparency: transparency for the citizens and transparency for the European Union, because the only thing we see is news in the press that is telling us what they want to do with our country, with the future of our country. My group will vote for this motion, because we cannot lose sight of the situation in this country, because the seriousness with which we bring all our plans and measures to Europe depends on the future of our country. That is precisely why, ladies and gentlemen, for everything we play in Europe, it is not acceptable for us to have sent Brussels a plan of reform with mistakes. I don't know what's worse, that they haven't done it right or that they're making excuses for having mistakes. They're thinking about 2050, but the plans that now have to come and those that we depend on go wrong. Do they have twenty-two ministries, do they have advisers that exceed the limits of normality, and do they really not have enough to make a plan without mistakes? Maybe they're lying to us, and I think they're more out there. Gentlemen of the Government, be responsible. Do not continue with the massive rise in taxes, cuts in inefficient spending. That's what you should do. When you cut into inefficient spending and tighten your belt, then go see another kind of reform. But first start with their ministries, start with that superfluous expense and continue to work from there, because they cannot ask the Spaniards to cut them off, that they be the ones to pay for this crisis, and that the government be left with a plan of error. It's not a receipt, they don't deserve it. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u183	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Rego Candaimil has the floor for the Plural Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u184	He asked the People's Party for information sent to Brussels by the Government. We also want to know, but I see that we have very different concerns, and I'm not surprised. You, the cut-off party, are concerned about the stability program including fiscal targets, deficit level and debt. We, the BNG, are particularly concerned about how the Government's forecasts of reforms are going to affect the lives of people, workers and people. We are concerned that they may adversely affect the quality of life and well-being of the social majority, the popular classes of our country and the State. Therefore, in the face of the obscurantism and opacity of the Government, we have put forward initiatives to know the proposals of the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan, because what we are hearing on issues such as labour reform, pensions or tolls of highways, for example, makes us fear the worst, that is, the possibility of new social cuts, which, of course, the BNG rejects and will reject in a sharp way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u185	Thank you so much. Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u186	Mr Figaredo, from VOX, said that some go to the Maremisillas and others go to Mora de Rubielos on a Monday to hunt goats, like Mr Abascal; on a Monday, that day morning to hunt goats. Anyway, let the PP talk about taxes... An unsuspecting newspaper like El Mundo, in November 2013: 'The PP is the party that has made the most tax increases in the fiscal history of this country, with the largest collection volume and in less time'. And speaking of deficit... Man, the Rajoy government raised the debt by 423 billion; from 70% to 98%, 28 points more. The Government that increased the deficit the most. Anyway, he always talks about who else has to shut up. They criticise the adoption of tax exemptions, for example, on tax dividends and capital gains. Who are you defending? I agree that, of course, there has to be more information, and we always say that: there has to be more information. The balloon policy probes I think it is a wrong policy and in that we do agree with you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u187	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Bel Accensi has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u188	Thank you, President. Mr Paniagua, we are not going to vote in favour of this GNP. I'll explain myself, and I'll be brief. Are we concerned about the medium- and long-term fiscal strategy that the Spanish State must have? Well, obviously, like anyone else. But if we look at the question of the last day of Mrs Spain or the motion you are presenting here today, they are a pure list of reproaches, of constant free attacks on the Government. I also tell you that the minister answers you with other reproaches that do not lead anywhere. President Zapatero is not going to fix this situation, nor is President Rajoy going to fix it. They're both at home, they did what they did, and that's why they're at home. They would therefore have to have wide-ranging views, both of them, and be responsible for a very complicated economic situation that comes upon us. In a serious state, right now, the main opposition party, which perhaps one day can govern, and the main government party would have to be negotiating this strategy and not making constant criticisms. All those who come up to this rostrum by promising - and there are - that they will fry us to taxes and all those who go up to this rostrum by promising that they will generally lower taxes have absolutely no credibility. It is clear that at the moment - it is claimed by the AIReF, we will certainly listen this afternoon to the governor of the Banco de España who is going to ask for exactly the same thing - it would be optimal if there was a medium- and long-term strategy of fiscal consolidation and fiscal rebalancing. In the short term it cannot be and is counterproductive. Therefore, any initiative that comes to this House that goes in this direction seriously and calmly will count on our support. Any initiative that simply has as its object the mutual reproach of if you fry at taxes, if you lower taxes, if you generate deficit, if you generate more deficit, that doesn't lead us anywhere at all. We are therefore not going to support this initiative. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u189	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, I have the floor, Mrs López Domínguez.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u190	Ladies and gentlemen, we all know that the objectives of the thirty components described in the Recovery Plan reflect what has already been covered in the government agreement: green taxation, progressive taxation, fair taxation, gender equality, digital transformation as well... And we all know that, also within the thirty components, as the third vice-president, Minister Yolanda Díaz, has told you today, the labour reform will be repealed. Given that all the components of the recovery plan have been made public and are available on the web, I understand that what the PP intended with this motion and with the interpellation that precedes it is simply to materialize this parliamentary tool to inculcate its false ideas. In other words: taxes are bad - false -, Rajoy's government lowered taxes to the working class - false -. [[The lady]] Taxes are a tool that citizens have, among other things, to equip us, through the democratic action of the State, with the public goods and services we need for our well-being. Taxes, then, are good. The bad thing is when these taxes are not used to improve schools, public education, public health, the air we breathe in our cities and villages, public housing, the economy of public care, and a long way to go in our welfare state. The bad thing, then, is when fiscal policy is in the hands of parties like the People's Party, and this is what they forget to tell in the infamous text of this motion and in the question of the other day. Because, when you say that the government of Mariano Rajoy lowered taxes to the working class, what you do not mention is that there was, yes, a tax reduction, but only just before the municipal and general elections that were to come. What did you want, to benefit the working class or to take a few votes, just in case? They also forget to mention that in this reform the IRPF sections were lowered from seven to five. In addition, the rates of the higher rents were lowered and the maximum rate was also lowered. Do you think that lowering the interest rates of people who charge 300,000 euros per year is helping the working class? They forgot to mention that the person who went up the VAT was the PP. They were forgotten to say that they ignored the recommendations of their own committee of experts, which was telling them that it was time to delve into a green taxation, a taxation that was also progressive and to push ahead with what is now being done, a law to combat tax fraud. They also forgot to say that the labor reform that led the PP and that now we are going to repeal not only did not create employment, but also left thousands of Spaniards and Spaniards in unprecedented temporality and precariousness. They forgot to mention that they introduced the sustainability factor into pensions and therefore lowered the purchasing power of pensioners. Because they always forget to say things that they don't care about. For example, they now have a GNP because they say that there is a need to improve the ratios of civil servants in Girona and, by extension, in Catalonia. You do so, who are the protagonists of the dismantling of public administrations. You, too, are responsible for workers' temporality in many municipalities and other public administrations. They do so at the same time as they are calling for the restoration of the rules of fiscal stability, which are very related and very guilty of what they are asking for. Sometimes they pretend - but no one believes them - that they are spokespersons of Workers' Commissions. By the way, the Workers' Commissions have been calling for an improvement in the ratios of civil servants in Girona for some time. You forgot to say that the People's Party is the party where I said, I do what I want. He forgot to say that the People's Party is also the model of Ayuso to subsidize the rich, the same model that Members like Mr Canadell of Catalonia want to import. Mr Canadell, by the way, is from Together, and I also want to tell the comrades of Republican Left that he is, that he is from the right. And don't forget that United Podemos-En Comú Podemos will be the guarantee of a progressive, fair and green taxation, both in Catalonia and Spain. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u191	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Sancho Guardia has the floor. [[The Lord]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u192	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen. Today we are debating a motion that is the result of an inquiry - I thank you for your kind tone - in which the People's Party is once again demonstrating its cavernary strategy of harassment and overthrowing the Government based on confusion, half-truths or lies without more, grievous mantras with regard to the country's situation and all this aligned with loas and nostalgic, hopeful, enthusiastic - and I see that they must understand necessary - attempts to claim the leader, his hero, the one known since the times of Filomena as Captain Alatriste and more recently, since the events of the 4-M balcony, such as the Shadow. They make a description of the reality that coincides with the argumentary of their self-help manual. They point again in their speeches to the demonization of taxes and speak of assault and tax harassment. They say they're going to lower all taxes. Curious, exactly as Montoro and Rajoy said in 2011, and also premonitoring, warning for sailors: the first thing they did at the first Council of Ministers was start to climb them massively. Who do you want to cheat on? Do you want to make us forget your story just as you want to wash the image of your party by changing headquarters? If all Spaniards already know that the PP is the party that has made the most tax cuts and increases in the fiscal history of this country by higher collection volume and in less time, tax amnesty through. [[Applauds]] But they were justified, they said they were forced: the biggest economic crisis and in line with the rest of the European countries. And now, in an unprecedented and much more serious situation, with the COVID-19 provoking the most important global crisis since 1870, how does the People's Party act? Generating alarm, discrediting the country internationally, ignoring or scorning reports and forecasts from the IMF, OECD, the World Bank and opposing the fiscal policies of this government, which are the same as those of all administrations and countries around the world: expansive, to support the economy and families. [[Rumors]] With naturality and dispersal, without remixes or modesty, their consistent attitude when they are in opposition: seize the opportunity to overthrow the Government, because that is their real obsession, not the improvement of the country. They require aid for all sectors and activities and, at the same time, less taxes, less debt, less deficit. They could have proved it in practice, many times they then had. Laffer abandoned them. In view of its irresponsibility and disloyal attitude, the Government defends the need to move towards a more just and progressive tax system, in which everyone contributes according to their capacity and receives according to their need. There can be no social justice without fiscal justice. For their accounting in terms of their intentions, the current crisis has been taken into account to accompany fiscal measures to the objective of economic and social reconstruction. Because you, in your emergencies and short-term thinking, thought that in the recovery plan that was referred to Brussels there were concrete fiscal measures that were going to be implemented either during this exercise or during the coming year. And that is what you are looking for with this motion, not the improvement of the country, but that you are asking for today even reforms, deficit, debt that looks unnecessary and counterproductive, such as the enlargement of the EPA, in so far as the need to adapt forecasts to more than four years' notice could generate uncertainty among economic operators, and you know it. Aren't they looking for him? Nor can they wait a few months for the report of the group of experts on tax reform, which gives them the same. You're looking for the government to say white to say black, or vice versa. Is that what you consider constructive proposals, which you said earlier, Mr Paniagua? What can I expect from anyone who confuses the word freedom with doing what I want? Minister Montero made the Government's fiscal road map clear to the public last week on the basis of the Stability Programme and the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan: Component 27, Law on Measures to Prevent and Combat Fiscal Fraud. Component 28, adaptation of the tax system to the reality of the twenty-first century. Component 29, improving the efficiency of public spending. To which I am going to add two new ones, in this case President Pedro Sánchez: component 100, less than a hundred days to have 70% of the population vaccinated and thus achieve group immunity. [[Applauds]] Component 32, thirty-two months until the general election. To overcome the pandemic, so that people can regain their lives again, for a fair recovery, for the transformation of the Spanish economy over the next six years. Gentlemen of the People's Party, assume the following: 27, 28, 29, 100 and 32. We'll vote no. Thank you, President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u193	Thank you very much. Mr Paniagua, do you accept your group's amendment?
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u194	No, I've already informed you in my speech. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u195	Thank you. - OF THE VOX PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, ON THE MEASURES THE GOVERNMENT IS GOING TO TAKE TO RETURN THE CREDITITY OF THE MINISTRY OF THE INTERIOR. [[File number 173/000074]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u196	We continue with the motion of urgent inquiry by the VOX Parliamentary Group on the measures that the Government is going to take to restore the credibility of the Ministry of the Interior. For the author of the initiative and for the defence of the motion, Mr Fernández Hernández has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u197	Thank you, President. To the thousands of Vallecanos who voted for us on 4 May, from VOX we thank them. You are brave, you are heroes, because you have fought for your freedom to exercise the vote you want to put forward, despite the pressures of the violent left of this country. To the Bukaneros, gang of violent leftists, gang of criminals who said that we were not going to pass: we have passed, we have decided to stay and there we will follow, as in the rest of Spain, despite who weighs him. [[Applauds]] We demonstrated this on 7 April and 4 May and we will continue to demonstrate it in the future, despite the conduct - and there is no other qualification - 1 of some of the ministers. [[Criminals]] Because it is 1 to allow the concentration of seven hundred violent on the same day, time and place where the VOX act was celebrated in Vallecas. [[criminal]] Because it is 1 to allow the violent to approach less than 20 meters from the attendees of that act. [[criminal]] Because they didn't disperse the violent until after they brought their attacks and aggressions to the VOX audience. [[criminal]] And because it is also 1 that there are ministers who have defended the attacks of the violent. [[criminal]] Because it is also 1 that there are ministers who have thanked the violent for their attacks. [[criminal]] Because it is 1 that there have been ministers who have blamed those who were in that act and that we have received the aggressions. [[criminal]] [[Applauds]] 1 Word withdrawn by the Presidency in accordance with Rules 103.1 and 104.3 of the Rules of Procedure of the House. As our deputy spokesman Macarena Olona pointed out in this Parliament, the facts described are among the most serious in our democracy. They respond to the implementation of a plan that, both in its purpose and in its outcome, clearly fits into the normative concept of political violence. There is a political intention and objectives, political damage is caused and a desire for change, reform or revolution is hidden behind the violence. Violence is the instrument for purposes which, in this case, led to a political and social change that would allow the forces of the left to engage with the Government of the Madrid Community through political violence against VOX, instigated, permitted and justified by the same Government of Spain. And, which is equally serious: the facts described bear extraordinary similarity with past times of our history, and of a very black history in Spain, also starred by the PSOE. With everything that has happened and the attitude of the violent left, I accuse Minister Montero of being responsible for the attacks in Vallecas on April 7. I accuse Minister Belarus of being responsible for those attacks in Vallecas on 7 April. I accuse Minister Maroto of being responsible for these attacks in Vallecas on April 7. And I accuse the minister, forever unworthy, Marlaska of being responsible for those attacks in Vallecas on April 7. [[Applauds]] Because it's true, he wanted to look for a dead man that day and, ladies and gentlemen on the left, they're wrong. You guys are wrong. As Santo Domingo de Silos said, life can take me away, but no more can you. If you want us to fall one of us, you have to know that another will come to take his place and that there are many Spaniards willing to take the place of those we can fall from. [[Applauds]] And every time you see us with your thugs, macaras and 'pyrrakas', you make us stronger and you are weaker. Look, if not, at Mr. Churches. What has Mr. Iglesias been left with? Fleeing and disconnected; that is where Mr. Iglesias is left. [[Applauds]] So it is urgent to restore the credibility of the Ministry of the Interior and, above all, security and freedom in Spain. And all this happens, among other measures - and that is why we demand it - through the cessation of ministers Montero, Belarus and Maroto and the cessation of the minister, great unworthy, Marlaska, for the sake of Spain. By the way, I don't see Mr. Rufián. Yesterday he asked us a question; now I'm going to ask Mr. Rufian a question. Do you believe in the Republic of Catalonia? For let him know that, as he said, 'The republic does not exist, 2'. [[You idiot!]] Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u198	Your Honor, just a moment. I ask you to remove the term 'criminal' and the last insult to the Member of the House. [[A Member of Parliament: I was paraphrased!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u199	Excuse me?
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u200	The term 'criminal' and the last insult to the Member of the House, I ask you to withdraw them.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u201	As for the term 'criminal', as the dictionary says, criminal is the one who commits wrong things.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u202	No, that's not what the RAE says, much less. [[Rumors.-Applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u203	Read the dictionary.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u204	All right, you'll withdraw from the...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u205	If you'll excuse me, he answered the second question.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u206	Yeah, yeah, finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u207	Thank you very much. As for the second, I said, 'as he said'. I echoed other people's words. I didn't call him an idiot. You have to know... 2 Word withdrawn by the Presidency in accordance with Rules 103.1 and 104.3 of the Rules of Procedure of the House.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u208	Thank you very much. It shall be withdrawn from the Journal of Sessions. [[Several ladies and gentlemen: No, no!-Applause]] Since we have not tabled amendments to this initiative, we have moved on to position-setting. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u209	Thank you very much, Mr President. I support this initiative, which calls for measures to restore the credibility of the Executive of Pedro Sánchez, particularly following the anti-democratic conduct of the Minister of the Interior and the three ministers in the recent Madrid autonomous electoral campaign. They should not continue in the Government those who have fomented the infamous and vile harassment of a rival political party and used the ministerial platform to conceal the identification of pendential and violent individuals linked to the security services of one of the parties forming the blue bank. Ladies and gentlemen, the government is losing credibility to jets and cataracts. See yesterday's spectacle with Minister Montero and the trans law in an attempt; see the migration invasion of Ceuta and the grave threat to the integrity of Spain, the result of a colossal democratic failure unprecedented since the times of the Transition; see the scandal at the unconstitutional disposition, I repeat, because this was determined by the Constitutional Court, of the royal decree-law by which the Council of Ministers came round in the CNI to the then second vice president and the president's cabinet director the government. Many Spaniards also expect explanations of the changes in prison policy, which is the product of the government's concessions in exchange for the support for Pedro Sánchez to reach the investiture. What can be expected of those who have broken the law and abused their power to cease one of our best public servants? This is the case of Colonel Pérez de los Cobos. The Government is losing credibility in cataracts. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u210	Thank you very much. Mr García Adanero has the floor. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u211	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen. I also believe that a sign of the breakdown of the Government is when members of the Government themselves incite violence against a democratic political party in a democracy. But it is clear that we have already reached a point in calling for the cessation of the Minister of the Interior... A year ago there were more than enough reasons to ask for it, and that had not yet occurred the rapprochement of ages or the diversion of power and, therefore, already a year ago there were reasons. Today the President of the Government of Spain answered a question about Ceuta, and I take the opportunity to send a greeting, a hug and my solidarity with all the people who live in Ceuta, also in Melilla and, of course, in support of the Civil Guard, the National Police and the military who are doing their work in those cities. He said that the President of the Government said that he fully supported the minister, and that made me think. When a person is already so riddled, that on the part of the president of the government that defense is made so express, I think it is because he already has it of 'capable', that is, he already has it of white or already has it of shield, and then he says: Well, while they mess with him, the others are free of all faults of what can happen. So, we already forget Delcy's suitcases, we forget, of course, the cut of 11 billion million that is to be made in public health, we forget the fiscal hack, we forget the moves that are within the government - today it has been seen in the control session to the government, when the Minister of Labour was talking about the complete repeal of the labor reform, the look that Mrs Calviño gave her, which seemed to be not very agreed - and we forget everything else. The government is already in decomposition, and the greatest proof that it is in decomposition is that each of the spokespersons of the Socialist Party that comes out here says: There are 32 months left for the end of the legislature. That means that they are already counting the days backwards, because they know that it is more difficult every day to maintain this government, because the Spaniards are already tired and no longer able to endure, and the Spaniards are calling for an electoral process so that this will rise and can recover again Spain, because at the moment we are absolutely plunged into misery. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u212	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Gutiérrez Vivas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u213	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The truth is that Minister Marlaska seems to have taken pleasure in this by encouraging and justifying attacks and threats to political formations. Ladies and gentlemen of VOX, you have done it with you, but I would like to remind you that a few years ago you did it with my political formation, with Citizens, on account of that famous parade of Pride Day, where Mr Marlaska first encouraged the attacks against our political formation and then justified them, and not content with justifying them, a false police report was invented to justify what had happened, which was quite the opposite of what that report reflected. And not only that, but he also had the little shame of forcing some of his officials, officials who were under his command, under his direct command, to witness things that had happened in that parade that day and that never happened. So we were saying yesterday: there are a lot of issues that can bring the blame to Minister Marlaska, there are many issues that justify it, and many, therefore, will make our parliamentary group vote in favour of this motion. But whether or not Mr Marlaska remains in office depends not on the confidence of this House, but on the confidence that the President of the Government has placed in him. I told you yesterday and today you have just seen how the president himself directly staged it. In my last speech on this subject I wanted to focus on the Perez de los Cobos issue, but I believe that this is not much less the main reason to reproach Mr Marlaska. Look at you, the policy of approaching ETA prisoners is a decision, in our opinion, unworthy, because it is so with the victims, because there is no repentance and there is no collaboration of these prisoners with justice. The minister, as magistrate who was of the National High Court, knew of the cowardice and cruelty of these murderers and, therefore, we find it very difficult to believe their present position. But this is not just Mr Marlaska's attitude, ladies and gentlemen. A few days ago we have heard Minister Iceta say that the transfer of prison powers to Euskadi involves returning to normality and complying with the laws. And when has this been out of the ordinary and out of law enforcement? Has prison policy with ETA prisoners ever been illegal? Is that what Mr. Iceta means? It seems to me another indignity of this government, in this case Mr Iceta. This is not acceptable. We are talking about a concession that comes after a massive approach and that further erodes the presence of the State in the Basque Country. Therefore, another shame, one more political shambles and a political negotiation that does not correspond to any technical criteria. It seems to us, moreover, very bad news that Mr.Iceta travels to the Basque Country to stage this assignment. It's very symptomatic of what's happening. The PSOE is creating in the Basque Country the same problem it created in Catalonia with the transfer of prisons. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a drama for us to see how the prestige of the Ministry of the Interior falls continuously, because it is not only the prestige of the Ministry of the Interior, but of everything that the Ministry of the Interior means, of the institutions that are the State Security Forces and the institution that is the prison corps, a body to which Mr Marlaska in almost 1100 days as a minister has only visited once in a prison - in 1100 days - and has not passed from the administrative area of the prison. Is that the importance given by Minister Marlaska to the institution of prisons? Because it depends on him; it does not depend on another, it depends on him. In 1100 days, one visit? Having the prison officials as they have them, having the officials of the State Security Forces and Corps as they have them, doing that weak favor to their men and women seems to me much more reason, no doubt, for the threats or the cessation of Mr Pérez de los Cobos for this unworthy minister to resign, and if not, for the President of the Government to cease him. We will continue to show that Mr Marlaska does not have the support and confidence of the opposition, but he does not have the confidence of the majority of the Spaniards and, of course, does not have the confidence of all the men and women who work in his ministry. Thank you, President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u214	Thank you very much. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, Mr Santiago Romero has the floor. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u215	Mr. President, thank you. The right-wings continue to deny legitimacy to any Government other than their own, as we see it, but they no longer hesitate to disrespect the other political forces and the people who make up those political formations, who hold institutional positions. That is not a political criticism, it is a constant insult, as we have seen in the presentation of this motion. Permanently questioning the democratic legitimacy of a government out of the ballot box and invested with the legitimacy given to it by the parliamentary majority is a contempt for democracy and popular sovereignty. It is the ninth time - the ninth time - in a month that the right hand brings to the House this debate, demonstrating a self-centeredness of the most rascal elites, using Congress not to talk about the problems of the Spanish, but to talk about problems that do not exist, of a supposed victimization that does not exist. They brought him as an interpellation at the plenary session for VOX, from which this motion comes; at the appearance of the President of the Government on 14 April in the speech of the spokesman for VOX; three questions for oral answer at the plenary session of the Congress of Deputies registered by VOX and the People's Group; two questions for oral answer at the Interior Committee of VOX and the People's Party; one question for oral answer in the Senate by the People's Parliamentary Group and the motion for VOX today before the plenary following the urgent interpellation. The common denominator of this waste of time is to release lies and hatred against all Spaniards who do not think like you and against the most vulnerable people, constantly reiterating their racism, xenophobia, homophobia, their animosity to feminism and their contempt for those who are concerned about achieving a more just world. It has become clear to all Spaniards that the far right is looking for the anger and confrontation in the electoral campaign, but also outside it, in order to preserve the votes. And the most serious is the constant questioning of the authenticity of the serious threats, including threats to life, received by political leaders, ministers and senior officials of the Administration. In the texts we have discussed - or in the questions asked - in those nine questions and questions raised by you in one month, you have at no time condemned the various death threats received. Not surprisingly, we have seen how they turned children without families into the object of a despicable campaign for electoral purposes. Generating hatred to get votes is playing with fire. To the right, lying is common. You repudiate public subsidies to help the excluded, but before yesterday the trial of the former VOX spokesman at the Andalusian Board began for appropriating 2.5 million euros in subsidies. They claim that the civilian guard attacked at a Navalcarnero rally was the victim of an ultra-leftist and, at the same time, the detainee's father explained in the press that the detainee was a VOX sympathizer, who went to the rally. They claim that they would immediately bring to the now deputy Serigne Mbayé, only for having the skin color different from yours, even knowing that he is Spanish and therefore cannot be deported or expelled from Spain. And, emulating former President Trump, there are doubts about the vote by mail, claiming that it is a vote that is subsequently overturned. They lie even when they try to hide what they have voted about the state of alarm. They claim in election campaign that VOX did not support the state of alarm, when VOX not only supported with its votes in Congress the first extension of the first state of alarm, but days before it was declared, on March 12, they were already asking all right-wing forces, including VOX, that the government will approve the state of alarm. They prefer to do politics with lies and refuse to support economic recovery measures and the so-called social shield. The truth is that the problems of the Spaniards do not matter very much to the right-wing gentlemen in view of their votes in Congress. In all the royal decree-laws on measures for the construction and extension of the social shield-sixteen - on the protection of the unemployed and self-employed, economic aid to enterprises, transfers of resources to autonomous communities, ERTE to maintain 4 million jobs, reinforcements of the public administration and health services, protection of the right to housing, leasing and guarantees of supplies to vulnerable families, in all of them, in the sixteen, VOX has voted against and the PP has voted against in six or has abstained in six. Please abandon the war-civilist and confrontational policy and start supporting the working people, the self-employed and the businesses of this country. Don't keep wasting our time on these absolutely insulting motions and help Spain never again leave its people in a crisis, as the right-wings have always done. We will vote against your motion. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u216	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, I have the floor, Mrs Álvarez Fanjul. Mrs ÁLVAREZ FANJUL: Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. First, what surprised me was that I did not know that the Secretaries of State of this Government worked part-time. [[Applauds]] You went to Vallecas to make a fuss. Did Otegi say so? Did Churches say that? No, no, ladies and gentlemen, our President of the Government, who should be the first to defend the democratic right to take part in political events, Pedro Sánchez, said so in Parliament last week. Today it is up to VOX, yesterday to Citizens and always to the People's Party, because, gentlemen of VOX, until you appeared, the fascists were us; we were the ones who tried to step on Spanish territory; we were the ones who, according to the left, had no place in a democratic system, it was us. For decades we have endured in the Basque Country and Catalonia that same warning, intimidation, when not the shooting in the back of the head or the car bomb, while we were accused of not wanting peace and the terrorist Otegi was jailed as an example of a Democrat. That is why I would like to send today a clear message to all Spaniards, especially those of my generation, whatever their ideological position: politics should not be this, politics is not this. That is why the new generations have a special responsibility to change things and that is why we support all requests for resignation. I am convinced that another left is possible; a left respectful of the dissenting and able to reach great transversal agreements for the good of Spain and for the good of the Spaniards, and in this Chamber there are those who have the opportunity today to prove it. Ladies and gentlemen, I would not understand that any parliamentary group would condemn the use of violence against any political formation; perhaps with the exception of those who have not yet renounced their past and condemned the use of violence and murder as a political weapon. It would make no sense for any of us in this House to condemn this, without labels and without 'especially'. If you don't like a political force, don't throw it at the radicals, fight it at the polls. As a Spanishwoman and deputy of the People's Party in Vizcaya, I can't understand them; that lack of condemnation can't be done, and more in democracy. That is why they will allow me to focus on a relevant fact in my speech. Is there reason to reprimand Mr. Marlaska? Of course, too many. Mr Marlaska is but a broken doll in the hands of Sánchez, Podemos, Esquerra and Bildu and pays for the broken dishes of his obedience to serve those who had to fight at another time. That's why he must be reprobated. For the terrible management of the immigration policy - what is happening this week in Ceuta has no precedents -; for its shameful prison policy, which grants free bar to prison benefits and transfers to prisoners of the terrorist gang; for failing to comply with the salary equalization agreements signed in 2018 by the Government of the People's Party; for their irregular dismissals and for the promotion of relatives jumping the professional ladder; for ordering their subordinates to control the social networks and monitor the criticisms of the Government; for masking and justifying aggressions against fellow citizens in the marches of the Day of Pride; for calling my party of criminal organization in full electoral campaign; and for hiding the aggressions of the escorts of his government partner to members of the forces and security bodies of the State - Mr Marlaska, it is a pity that most of your efforts are aimed at preventing any truth from his mouth - for all this reason, we support Mr Sanchez's own request for the removal of Mr. Marlaska as well as Mr. For our President of the Government the political negotiation and the delivery of counterpart to Bildu is legitimate and acceptable, but giving a rally in Vallecas in election campaign is not; on the contrary, it is an illegitimate and threatening provocation. It is this advantage, this instrumentalization of State institutions, such as the Attorney General's Office, the Directorate of the Civil Guard or the CIS that will pass them the bill. The wave of freedom born in Madrid is spreading throughout Spain. That is why we announce our full support for VOX's motion, without conditions, without amendments and without nuances; full support, full support and full solidarity with those who suffer the violence of the intolerants and unconditional condemnation of those who justify it or excuse it even from the presidency of the Government itself. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u217	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, Mr José Vélez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-19-CD210519.u218	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, this motion that the VOX Group brings us to debate today is one more in the line of strategic action of the right, with its three franchises: the extreme right represented by the proposing group, the timorate right, which presents itself as moderate, but which makes itself the postulates of the extreme right and competes for what remains with the right that declares itself liberal. Ladies and gentlemen, the explanatory statement could be regarded as a narrative that is made up of sentences taken from other parliamentary speeches, from press clippings, tweets and even from tavern chascarillos, more typical of a science fiction novel than from a reality that has occurred, with the sole objective of questioning the management of the Minister of the Interior. That's what the right-wings agree on. But this time they take one more step, and it's not a jump to the void, it's a jump to the void. As if it were a supply of a distribution chain, they proposed four by one: they no longer only called for the rejection and cessation of the Minister of the Interior, but also for the Minister of Equality, the Minister of Social Rights and Agenda 2030 and the Minister of Industry, Trade and Tourism. And all this involves him in: to be interested in the measures the Government intends to take to restore the credibility of the Ministry of the Interior. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out, first of all, that from the Spanish Government - I think it is quite clear, even if we do not want to see it - democracy and the rule of law are defended and all kinds of violence, whether physical or verbal, is condemned, even that which is practiced too often in this rostrum, that is, without any nuances or compromises. [[applause]] The Ministry of the Interior has been working to ensure, as it cannot be otherwise, that the various electoral processes that take place give all the guarantees that allow all the political forces that contribute to them to express their ideas with complete and complete freedom. In the case to which they refer - when incidents occurred in Vallecas and this resulted in arrests - it is, as is mandatory, the judicial authority that conducts such investigations. Therefore, in this case of the incidents that occurred in Vallecas during the rally of their political formation, VOX, an investigation is opened, so what we democrats must do is leave the judicial bodies to complete their work, as is proper in a rule of law with separation of powers. Some may not like it. By the way, I would also like to point out, with regard to the rejection and termination of the Minister of the Interior, that is the number fifteen. Today it seemed to me to hear something from Mr Espinosa de los Monteros, I do not know if betrayed by desire, but hiding it reality. He's never been reprobated. Another thing is that they persevere in the attempt. That is where I will be allowed a reflection that I do personally, but which I extend to the whole House. Ladies and gentlemen, persevering in error is not constant, it is foolish. Abandon your attempts and plunge into the melancholy of useless effort. As for the measures to restore the credibility and dignity of the Ministry of the Interior, it should be stressed that the fundamental mission of this Government and of this Minister - it has been that and not another since they arrived - has been to restore decency in the Ministry, which has been discredited by cuts and bad practices of the People's Party. Just list some actions to correct it, such as the dismantling of the so-called patriotic police - what patriotic sense do some have - the incorporation of new troops through public offers of employment to recover 12,000 police and civilian guards and 3,000 prison officials lost during the previous government stage. I'm running out of time. I'm just going to leave you with another idea. Not only will we not support this motion, but we encourage the Minister of the Interior to continue his work and we recognize his temperance and temperance with which, intervention after intervention, he bears insults, improvisations, disqualifications. And to those who claim to defend early Spain: let work, do not put obstacles. The minister told them in the interpellation, on several and repeated occasions, that enough is enough. Today, from the Socialist Group, we say to them: that is enough! [[Applauds]] Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. [[Rodriguez Gómez de Celis]] Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is suspended. It was two o'clock in the afternoon.
