ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-21.ana.ud1260e47	Honourable co-representatives! Former Einar Förde Depositor is dead, 61 years old. With Einar Förde's death, we have lost one of the most striking figures in Norwegian society in the last 50 years. Few in his generation have the power to express the contemporary as strongly and set as deep traces after themselves as he did. Einar Förde was unusual and versatile and also achieved his many talents: one in the arenas such as sport, school, politics and the media. Förde was born in the industrial site of Høyanger during World War II. In the post-war period, he was given the opportunity to expand his abilities. By means of burning commitment and dazzling skill, he gained high trust in society, and he finished his career making NRK a modern media company. Einar The Führer's life is the same as the story of modern Norway is. Only 22 years old he was elected to the Central Government of the Workers' Party in 1965. There he shared tables with historical figures such as Einar Gerhardsen and Haakon Lie. He was re-elected and re-elected and remained in office for almost a quarter of a century, of which the last eight were Vice-Presidents. Einar Förde was always strongly involved in foreign policy and stood as a young politician in the front line in the fight against US warfare in Vietnam, against the junta in Greece, against Norwegian NATO membership and against the EU. In these questions he was one of the foremost in his generation. It was an intellectual process and neither opportunism nor masculinity that led him to become a follower of Norway's participation in both the EU and NATO. He was Minister of Church and Education from 1979 to 1981, but it was primarily as parliamentarian Einar led his political activity. He will be regarded as one of the greatest parliamentarians of the post-war period, and marked all the major political debates in the 20 years he was a member of the Stortinget. When Einar Førde was the group leader of the Workers’ Party’s big group from 1986 to 1989, all these qualities were expressed. Lead was a caring and listening leader and, to the surprise of many, became a beloved leader of the big group. But at Stortinget he was also afraid. As Prime Minister Bondevik said in a comment to the Friend of the Fatherland the other day: “Previously, there was a rhetoric that could scare some, but we who got the pleasure of getting to know him know that he was caring, thoughtful and also concerned about the deep issues of life.” One of Einar's trademarks was the laughter – the kneeling, the micking – that was entirely his own. When Einar sat at a table in the pottery restaurant, it often came, and it was followed by a laughter wave from all those in attendance. Then you could know that Einar had made a small observation, revealed a hidden inconsistency, made an unexpected connection and put fresh words on the facts – followed by the kneeling and the laughter of others. As his friend and party colleague Gudmund Hernes said: Einar Förde was a serious man disguised as a humorist.He was a build-up disguised as a grumbling.He was a humanist disguised as a cynic. He was a social democrat. He was a common denominator. He could put words on what most people think, but the few can formulate. In 1981 Einar Förde published the debate book 'We are all social democrats'. The title of the book has entered the Norwegian language, and he captured the strong position of the equality ideals in the Norwegian people, regardless of their party. Einar Förde is deeply missing. The comfort is the certainty that he will continue to give joy. He will continue to give insight. He will continue to give reflection, by what he did, and by who he was. We have a deep gratitude for the effort Einar Förde has made. Now our thoughts and compassion go to the nearest. It is with deep respect that we bring peace to Einar Förde's memory. The representatives heard the President's commemorative speech.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-21.ana.ud1260e101	Before the matters on the current map are dealt with, the President will propose that the morning meeting – if necessary – continue beyond the scheduled time of 9 p.m. 15 to the current map has been completed. – No objections have been raised to the President’s proposal and it is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-21.ana.ud1260e116	As the rapporteur, I feel it right to link some brief comments to this position of the family, culture and administration committee. In the Committee and in the European Parliament, it is widely acknowledged that the work done by the Data Protection Supervisor and the Data Protection Officer is very important in our modern society. Through technological developments, privacy is under constant pressure. The data register and monitoring are becoming increasingly comprehensive. The possibilities of infringing privacy are increasingly present. In this context, the Data Protection Authority, the name and the law of the individual are the defence agency. Data protection has a watchdog function in many ways. Perhaps the most important aspect of supervision is that it is an active participant in the public debate on privacy and technology development. It is of great value that supervision appears to be an actor with a view to privacy, balanced against the technological possibilities that exist. There is a need for security in relation to crime in Norwegian society. Developments show an ongoing trend towards increasing crime — and increasing serious crime. This makes it easy to resort to solutions with network monitoring, access control and in particular surveillance with cameras of shops, shopping centres and public spaces. When we use these methods to provide security to the population, we also put our privacy under surveillance. It is important that this should be kept clear, and that we have a clear and conscious relationship with where the limits of monitoring should go. It is a broad political majority that supports the work of supervision and denominator in this area. There is also a broad majority who state clearly that caution must be exercised in relation to the interconnection of data registers and individual instances of personal data. We noticed that the monitoring does not have the full overview of what should have been reported. This is not a criticism of supervision, but a natural consequence of that, for example. The video control has exploded. I am aware that the supervision is actively working to remedy this, and looks forward to the results that are coming. Of course, the work on compliance with the reporting obligation must continue. In this context, a Joint Committee calls on the Ministry to consider whether the current sanctions option is sufficient for those who break the notification obligation. We assume that this will be followed up by the Department and that the conclusions will be communicated to the Stortinget in an appropriate manner. To conclude, I would say that the Data Protection Authority has a double role. It has a role to manage the existing legislation, but also as a precursor to the further development of the debate on privacy and to put privacy on the agenda in the media. In this area, good and important work is being done, which is supported by an overall increase, and which is hoped to continue for the benefit of individuals and society.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-21.ana.ud1260e147	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Add User-ID Succeeded [[Footage, see page 208]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-21.ana.ud1260e164	The party of progress was clearly among those who had the greatest expectations of Meyer's predecessor, Victor D. Norman, both in terms of privatisation, in terms of the outsourcing of competition, and in terms of efficiency and other measures that could sharpen, trim and streamline the public sector. We hoped that we had a government council that would be a lighthouse in the modernisation of public administration. We have to credit Norman for taking some action, but in sum, we think there was a long way between the profile the council had before he came to the Grand Council and what he survived when he came to the Council of State. In our day, we got a new state council, which seems both committed, motivated and capable. In addition, the Ministry has changed its name and new tasks. The Ministry of Modernisation is now going to call it, and a number of tasks have also been set free in the labour sector. This concentration on tasks, the new name and the relatively new government council hope we carry an action bid. We are once again optimists on the part of the Progress Party. There are some who believe that the policy of the Progress Party in public administration is only privatisation, privatisation, privatisation. This is wrong. We are genuinely committed to having a good administration with quality tools for processing, and we are concerned that the public should be a good organizer for the rest of the society where this makes sense. It is also important to facilitate both the individual and the market. We are fully aware that in some fields public leadership must be a catalyst for development. In some parts of the ICT sector, this is the case. We are concerned when we read reports like those from the Accenture consulting company earlier this year, where Norway fell heavily on an international ranking over the development of public electronic services — from a fourth place to a fifteenth place. This can't be good enough. We have to tighten up. We want to be a country ahead of development, and we know that the effective use of ICT will benefit both business and management. I therefore promoted this interpellation where I challenge the Council of State as to what he will do to remedy the problem. I meet the answer, but I have recorded in the media some of the Council's opinions in this area. I have registered the efforts of the Council of State for the MinSide project. Professionals I have consulted believe that the proposed allocation of 8 million. kr will be insufficient. One question is about the MinSide project, for example: may be based on the solution of the Alt-Inn project. Alt-Inn is known as a business reporting portal against public enterprises. MinSide may be built over the same reading, as a dialogue solution for individuals against public enterprises. Here it could be money and time to save. The tax administration, the Central Statistical Office, the Treasury, the Brønn Island Health Registers and the Competition Authority are all connected to Alt-Inn. The first three are also of interest to individuals. This is only about developing the right interfaces. Another area the Progress Party will address is the creation of central government ICT management, for example. an ICT Director. We need a strong force to promote the use of ICT in the public sector. Today, public use of ICT is not coordinated and therefore not effective. There is a lack of interaction between different departments and different departments, and in Municipality-Norway between the different parts of the municipalities. We think it's difficult for a government council that's a politician to fill the role of ICT manager in the state context. Here we think a professional is needed, for example. a former ICT manager. We also believe that such a leader could be a key driver in the debate that needs to be brought into line with ICT developments. I meet the Council of State's response and will come back later in the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-21.ana.ud1260e181	The government will make everyday life easier for residents and businesses. The government will build up the bureaucracy. The government will have a public sector that spends less time on permanence and more time on care. Technology – information technology – is an important tool for making these goals a reality. I'm going to focus on four main messages in my post. Information technology is essential for modernisation not only by public Norway but also for the major modernisation project in order to make Norway better prepared for the future. The use of technology is important to strengthen value creation throughout the country. We're in a situation where we're lucky. Norway has good access, but at the same time we have challenges related to the use of a technology that is available. We are alienated from a mature population and a mature business, the challenge is that the public is getting better at using the technology. The representative Knudsen already brought MinSide on the track in his post. MinSide is one of the pillars of the Government's ICT project. The MinSide shall be the common access port of the inhabitants to a wide range of digital services. The MinSide shall be the virtual service office. So now we're going to set up a service office online, organized according to the needs of our citizens, and not according to how the public sector is organised at the level of trade and administration. The fourth is that I want to develop the framework for a common public IT architecture that will contribute to increased cross-sectoral cooperation. The establishment of a common IT architecture in the public sector is necessary if the return on large-scale investments made by the public in IT every year is to be improved and contribute to the very goal of making everyday life simpler, both for most people and for business. I am very pleased that through its interpellation, the representative Knudsen brings ICT policy up on the agenda. The approach taken in the ministerial structure of 18 June is also an expression of the Government's stronger priority for IT policy in the simplification work, in the modernisation work, in the renewal work. The collection of national IT policies in the Ministry of Modernisation from 18 June is a strong expression of the fact that IT by the Government is seen as a powerful tool, precisely to contribute to better public resource use, a simpler everyday life for both citizens and business. The use of IT allows easier interaction between citizens and businesses on the one hand and the public on the other. The right use of IT gives many people in this country access to public services at times that best suit their citizens. The IT used correctly helps us to spend less resources on bureaucracy and permeability and more resources on what matters to our citizens, the services that create security in everyday life. That is why the government's extensive investment in IT is becoming a very central part of my work as Minister of Modernisation in the future. I'm listening to warnings, I'm listening to criticism, I'm listening to alarm bells like sounding. But to the representative of Knudsen's question about $8 million. kr until the realization of MinSide is enough, I would like to say that if it had only been the eight, I would have understood the turmoil both at the representative Knudsen and among the actors in the industry. But it's important to emphasize that these 8 million. kr is only part of my ministry and the Government is doing so. I place particular emphasis on the fact that the development of good digital services for citizens and businesses will take place in the first place in the individual state agencies and in the municipality of Norway. I also stress that there is a general modernisation pot in my department, where, of course, technology is part of the priority areas of modernisation work. It's also the case that next year we're going to spend well over ten billion public dollars on operations and investment in the field of ICT. I have – I believe – a reasoned expectation that those responsible for managing these billions also support the MinSide work. We're now in a phase in which we're developing the concept of MinSide based on what will serve the people. Here we haven't chosen solutions yet. It also means that we have not excluded solutions. As the representative Knudsen correctly points out, the public has made significant investments in the concept of Alt-Inn, which is the prelude of business to the MinSide concept. The existence in Alt-Inn development of valuable competences and infrastructure that it may also be appropriate to use in the development of MinSide is correct. But I've asked a series of questions, precisely on the basis that we're going to find the right solution, that we're going to make sure that public resources are used as best as possible. I await answers before I conclude, but I stress that when the choices have not yet been made, no solutions are excluded either. I also share with the representative Knudsen's objective that, for both time reasons and for resource reasons, we should go deep into the solutions that have already been developed to see if there are obvious synergies that can be transferred to MinSide. I also listen to the interest of both the representative Knudsen and the industry in a State IT director. In my view, we are now in a situation where the political pressure on IT policy in Norway, with the assembly in the Ministry of Modernisation, well takes care of the intentions of the supporters of such an IT director. Now, when IT policy is so high on the government's political agenda, when IT is seen as the powerful and important tool in the simplification and modernisation work, I see it as appropriate for this crossroads to retain overall responsibility for the more operational elections in the Department, linked to the Council of State and the political leadership of the Department. It is now necessary, just in order to achieve better returns, to establish the solutions that make inter-sectoral and administrative interaction much stronger, to have the clear responsibility for developing this directly to the Council of State, as I see it. So we have put important questions on the agenda. The government has chiseled out some clear, concrete, date-fixed targets. The first version of the population portal, the virtual service office, the digital services organised with the citizens as a starting point shall be in place during 2005. It is going to be a continuous development towards 2010 before the virtual service office is ideal, but the first version should be up and running in 2005. It is also naturally closely linked to the objective of e-signature and PKI, which are at the bottom of a particularly wide range of digital public services.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-21.ana.ud1260e209	One of the most central drivers, the debate forums and contributors in this important technology debate is the Technology Council. The Council was set up by the Bondevik I Government on the initiative of the Grand Duchy in 1999. The mandate to the Council states that it shall provide advice to the Stortinget and other authorities on the possibilities and consequences of new technologies and stimulate public debate and participation. The mandate was extended and clarified in April 2002. The democratic perspective and the popular perspective came in more, but the main focus was maintained. The themes currently under discussion include ICT and privacy, software policy, open standards, open source codes, stem cells, cloning and innovation. In the past, views on digital TV have been addressed. As an ICT politician, I have enjoyed a lot of their input, and there are others in Stortinget who have. There are enormous challenges for the door technologically. Nanotechnologies, new materials, extensive public sector modernisation using ICT, hydrogen and gas technologies, etc. Denmark, the Netherlands, England, etc. have institutions similar to those of the Norwegians, and they continue to bet, but the Government proposes to cut the appropriations by 34pst, 2.1 million. kr, without any justification. Here I believe there is something that does not rhyme. If we're going to bet on ICT and democracy, publicity, I see it as difficult to leave the debate to the leaders of Microsoft and other large companies and reduce the activity of the Technology Council. I could imagine that the Council of State commented on these points of view. Otherwise, I think it was an excellent answer. I feel reassured about MinSide, that you have taken into account that a job needs to be done, and that maybe 8 million. kr is not sufficient. I also share the view of the Councils that it is essential for the modernisation of the public sector to use IT. I have a question in relation to this with common IT architecture in public, I would like to know a little more specifically what this is about. It only applies to requirements specifications, PKIs, etc.? One of the main public sector challenges in relation to the private sector is the exchange of information. I could imagine knowing a little about what the council has been thinking about open standards and a possible trial project with open source codes.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-21.ana.ud1260e222	Increased use of information technologies in the public sector offers great opportunities to make everyday life easier and to make better use of public resources. However, increasing use of technologies in the public sector also raises important questions about values related, inter alia, to: to privacy. In my close advisory body eforum, people are just sitting with that approach to the use of technology. When I seek advice outside my own department in connection with technology use in the public sector, I ask far more than the actors in the commercial sector. We have strong professional environments in Norway that pose important and key questions about how privacy can be achieved, while at the same time public authorities are increasingly using technology. I am listening, and I am listening with interest to all the people who have important views on this, and I have also actively drawn them into the work of launching a new and more offensive IT policy in Norway. With regard to the development of a common public IT architecture, I am therefore of the opinion that we need for the future to make demands for investment in public IT that strengthens the interaction, that breaks down silo walls instead of building them up, and that ensures that we can interact across sectors and levels of government. We invest with the Community's resources, and then we must ensure that investment in this type of technology builds up during interaction, builds up under solutions that people and businesses have earned, and not solutions where interaction is prevented. Technology should, of course, be used to make public service production and public administration more efficient. So we have to make investments in equipment like ‘talking’ with each other. Open Source and Open Software issues are difficult. I have started to develop a robust policy in this area, and will of course come back to it when we get so far that we have a clear view. But the representative Knudsen is well aware that I am also the Minister of Competition, and I am concerned that public IT policy should stimulate competition, stimulate innovation and contribute to nobody being excluded from the important market of public IT.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-21.ana.ud1260e233	In the 2000-2001 Regional and Regional Communication, the aim was not only to provide institutions but also Norwegian households with broadband access during 2004. In 2001, as the interpellant says, we were in fourth place among 22 countries for the use of ICT. Now we've been far down on the list. It tells us that the nation has not done its job. But there are points of light, and one of them is the Helgeland Library, a collaboration between several libraries. We remember the old card catalogues, each library's catalogue. Now all directories can be placed online. Actually, the book industry and libraries should join forces on a new label, so that all the data is in the book. Then it's just to scan it into a directory mode, and it's accessible to everyone. But then, of course, all the libraries must have put in their catalogue. Here, there's a huge opportunity that Helgeland's library is working on. This is service to the people. The cooperation project developed by seven municipalities in Trøndelag is worth noting. I assume that the Council of State is satisfied with the Digital Trendelag. Collecting common resources to exploit broadband is probably the way to go, but some means are needed to achieve it. It is important that the public here is a driving force along with commercial actors. In Northern Ireland, we have a taxi-centre located far uphill to the mountains of Sulitjelma. It serves several taxi areas in the country, partly also Oslo. It would not have been possible without a well-developed broadband network – i.e. good district policy. And then we're up to the problems that the family, culture and administration committee experienced this week in Finland. The problem was, what do we do without broadband, and how do we get it? The statistics clearly show that Finnmark is lagging behind in the development and use of ICT. It is important that the intention of the 2001 Regional and Regional Communication is followed up, and that anyone who wishes to do so is given the possibility of broadband access, wherever they live in the country. One cannot use the technology if one does not have it. I hope the Minister for Modernization will modernise the whole country on the basis of the intentions he has told us about in this forum.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-21.ana.ud1260e246	It was pleasant and – I would say – reassuring to hear that the representative Knudsen is optimistic and that he is reassured as to what the Government can do in terms of modernisation. It is a very important issue for the representative Knudsen to travel in his interpellation, because modernisation of the public sector is one of the most important challenges we face in Norway. That is why this has worked high priority in the Government, and I am very pleased with the effort being made, and as the Council of State has now explained. The results of the modernisation work should enable us to respond better to the long-term challenges of increasing value creation both in the public and private sectors and through more and better services adapted to the needs of citizens and businesses. Modernisation and renewal are concerned with the maintenance and further development of the important Community tasks with new solutions. In order to make the meeting with the public easier for citizens and businesses, good access to information is important, and it must also be easier to promote matters towards the public. Among other things, increased use of information technology needs to facilitate dialogue between citizens, businesses and the public sector. It is true, as the representative Knudsen points out, that Norway is in the 15th place of the survey conducted by Accenture on the use of ICT in the public sector by countries. However, it is also interesting to read the further comment that Norway made great progress in 2003. Right now, the 15th place is not good enough, the goal must be to rank higher by the end of 2005 in terms of public full electronic processing. Norway has good prerequisites for being at the forefront of information technology. The Nordic countries are at the forefront of the world’s access to and use of IT by citizens. That's why there's no reason why we shouldn't be able to evolve further. It will bring great social benefits. The use of technology, as underlined by the Council of State, gives less permeability and more care, and we get more well-being back for the money. And the use of technology can cause business to create more values and spend less of the resources on form fields and bureaucracy. Finally, it is important that the modernisation of the public sector is a high priority in the future. Now this is not a work that the Government alone can do. There are many who have to go together, not least the parties here in Stortinget, so that the inhabitants can at any time get the best possible offer that is tailored to their own needs. And again, I'm satisfied with the bet and the priorities that this government is doing in this area, and I also hope that it can get a broad agreement here in the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-21.ana.ud1260e259	Of course, everyone in this room and all political parties agrees that ICT is an important tool for modernising and streamlining the public sector, and the costs of an inflated public sector have pushed forward modernisation measures in many countries. Cost control, economic transparency, the use of different market mechanisms, information and performance measurements have been emphasised. But the experience is different. In no country are there now close to solving the cost problems of the public sector. Where cost cuts have been carried out, public service provision has often been weakened, while red tape persists. Experience so far has helped to make the modernisation of the public sector a political controversial issue. The main means of enhancing the efficiency of the public sector is computer technology. However, the point is not computer technology as such, but the ability to exploit it for the provision of services. To date, public efforts to increase efficiency through online solutions have given limited results. The main reason is lack of overallity and the implementation of web-based solutions has not been accompanied by necessary organisational changes. Digital solutions are used, but they maintain the red tape that digitisation would replace. Thus, the main challenges are both to provide the necessary insight into how to exploit the potential of computer technology to implement the necessary productivity improvements, and to create the necessary political ups and downsight so that this can be implemented in practice. Government is a major consumer of advanced goods and services from business. Through targeted efforts to digitise, renew and streamline the public sector’s needs for new and advanced products and services from business. In this way, the need for modernisation of the public sector may constitute an important driving force in the renewal of Norwegian business. Moreover, the need for new solutions by the public sector can provide the basis for new and advanced products that can be exported to other countries. The role of this sector as a driving force for innovation in Norwegian industry will be enhanced if business policy is shifted to support this role. It requires increased efforts on relevant instruments, such as R & D, state development contracts, a tax system that stimulates saving and investment rather than consumption, to have mentioned something. The challenges lie ahead. As a small and homogeneous society, Norway should have better prospects for success than most other countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-21.ana.ud1260e274	The interpellence of the representative Ulf Erik Knudsen focuses unilaterally on the fact that the efficient use of ICT is a prerequisite for a competitive business and a rational use of public funds. Continuously, the interpellation gives the impression that ICT solutions are only useful for improving efficiency and reducing the costs and size of the public sector. SV has a different starting point: ICT solutions are necessary and shall be accessible to all. It is about offering the best possible offer to our citizens. ICT shall be available in schools. SV wants each student to have their PC. PCs shall also be available in service squares, service centres and libraries. Public availability is important for those who do not have a computer at home to be able to use this necessary means of assistance. It is important that all user groups have the opportunity and access to ICT. The government's insufficient investment in broadband affects the districts. We cannot digitise more and more services and do not have an infrastructure so that the services can be used. SV has gone into its previous budget proposals to strengthen efforts by providing more money for, for example: Høycom. We'll do this this year, too. A socio-economic holistic approach to the development of ICT solutions in Norway is important. All public IT services shall be available to as many users as possible and the solutions must be based on open source codes. The report always sets out «.no» as an example of a positive public portal. But these are services that are not available to everyone, and this we are in SV sceptical to. We also want services to be of high quality, and there needs to be a greater focus on the safety risk of introducing digital services. Equal access, equal speed and reasonable price is a prerequisite. I agree with the interpellant that the development of public electronic services is too poor in Norway, as SV has pointed out several times, and we have proposed increased funds for this field. However, we are more concerned about poor accessibility for citizens, lack of infrastructure and safety risks than that ICT is a prerequisite for the rational operation of the public sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-21.ana.ud1260e289	The fact that ICT is an important field of cooperation management has been set up by Meyer State Council in an excellent way. The aim of ICT policy will be, above all, a better overview of public services, more rapid processing, better availability and reduced costs. The collection of ICT policies in the new Ministry of Modernisation provides opportunities for the establishment of effective and public-friendly ICT solutions in the public sector more quickly. Norway is at the world top in terms of Internet use, with 78 pst. by the population ‘online’. At the same time, few public services are available through digital channels. The use of information and communication technologies has the potential to give Nordics 24-hour access to efficient, user-friendly and integrated public services. It is still the case that most people spend a lot of time picking up forms, queueing for telephone calls, or waiting for queues in a public office. In addition, the appropriate case handler may not be present or be busy in a meeting. Fortunately, more public services are becoming available online. What many demand is a coordination of these services. Therefore, it is also a step forward that the Government, as already mentioned, will establish the first version of the MinSide entry portal in 2005. MinSide will provide access to digital services, irrespective of the sector or level of administration that it provides. It is positive that it will also be possible to contact per person. telephone case handlers who can assist in completing forms. The possibility of delivering the declaration per person SMS, electronic notification card in Aetat for persons undergoing the professionalisation and establishment of a common electronic reporting portal to the public are examples of actions such as: Today, citizens are giving them a simpler everyday life using new technologies. In my county, the South-Trundel team, there are, among other things, make use of the possibility of simplifying the procedure for applicants for teaching positions by using electronic application forms. The State can draw lessons from such municipal initiatives. Privacy concerns are an objection that is often raised in relation to public electronic services. Both the State and the individual citizen have a responsibility here. MinSide may have a positive impact on privacy by allowing the individual to check entries in different public registers. In particular, IT could have a significant impact on business in District Norway. In the 2004 state budget, it is set at 510 million. DKK for industrial development measures in the regions affected by the conversion of the differentiated employer charge. A significant part of the funds has just been used for the development of electronic infrastructure. This may be significant in areas where market players have not yet found it commercially profitable to expand broadband. ICT can also be an important tool to ensure the settlement in Utkant-Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-21.ana.ud1260e306	I record that I received a little response to my challenge when it came to the Technology Council. But I noticed that the Council of State has many good advisers around it in these questions, and that's nice. The Technology Council also has the task of giving the Storting some advice. When the Council of State talks about the basis for public procurement of ICT opportunities for interaction, there is music in my ears. There is a main challenge in this area of information exchange between departments, between departments and between departments/departments and the people. It is also important, of course, to ensure competition in ICT markets. Of course, one might wonder why public opinion should have an active relationship with software policy and ICT policy in general. That should be obvious because of the enormous power you have. You're the biggest buyer in the market, you have to communicate with businesses, organisations and people, and you're regulatory. In this way, all other users and buyers in the Norwegian community are influenced by public authorities with their dispositions. I might be careful to make recommendations to the Council of State, which obviously have many good advisers, but I think the Council of State will gradually conclude like me, that one might say, for example. in the case of public documents being developed or archived, they should be made available through formats that all or many can read, HTML, XML or PDF. I think the Council of State will also conclude with increased public efforts at open standards, to increase availability, interoperability and competition, and that he will also conclude by running pilot projects with open source codes in the administration. My hope is that we will also come to a situation where, in schools, education and research, it is that we use open source codes. I thank the Council of State for its considerable interest and many good prospects in this matter, and look forward to the further work.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-21.ana.ud1260e322	Yes, this debate shows that the representative Knudsen and the Government have many common objectives and share opinions on instruments that can just be involved and realise a slightly simpler everyday life and a more efficient working public sector. I believe in interaction, and I believe in a necessary standardisation to get more out of public investment in this area, also because standardisation will be a contribution to making suppliers' jobs easier and will actually stimulate increased competition and not weaken it, as someone assumes. I can't help commenting on the SV's approach to modernising public Norway. Some of us see opportunities, other problems. Regardless of where we stand in politics, we must be concerned that the Community's scarce resources are directed as closely as possible towards what is a core service for its citizens. Being in search of the good solutions that allow us to deliver more security, more well-being, the Community solutions that really matter to people in everyday life must focus both on the left and the centre-right option in Norwegian policy. So, as I see it, technology gives us some opportunities to create a slightly simpler and happier everyday life for our citizens, and not least opportunities to ensure that we can free resources from perm movement and bureaucracy to more nurturing. I think that should also be of interest to the Swedish authorities. I am pleased to note that the government's policy is working. Broadband expansion goes at a higher rate than the biggest optimists had ever imagined. So in August 2004, we had 81 pst. by the households of Norway, the possibility to install broadband. And there's reason to believe that by the end of 2006, we've achieved the goal of 95 pst. all households shall have the possibility to install broadband. More than ever, we are betting on Høycom projects, which are intended to contribute to the development of broadband throughout Norway. Of course, my department must follow broadband developments closely, but at the moment we are pleased to note that the policy is working. Broadband expansion takes place at a high pace, and it occurs because broadband services drive broadband development. That's good policy. Finally, it is only when we are able to make the organisational changes that reduce bureaucracy that technology really produces results. There I share the views of the representative Hedstrøm.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-21.ana.ud1260e339	Case No. 2 has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-21.ana.ud1260e354	A wide range of measures are needed to ensure that integrated refugee and asylum-seeker children are closed. There is not one action that is right. But when someone has done something that is successful, we can learn from it and pass on the knowledge. The Vard model is such an example. The Vard model has been developed by Vard Sports Club in Haugesund, and it has been ten years since the project was ‘born’. The idea of the sports club was to see how the club could develop work on the integration of children with backgrounds such as immigrants, refugees or asylum seekers, and to get support and help with the work of the authorities. The goal was to provide the whole family, to draw the whole family into an active club environment with the dishes and duties it entails. In this club environment, they could get social adaptation language training positive leisure opportunity to do things together with the children are breaking down cultural boundaries and prejudice worker training skills of the Norwegian community and the Norwegian cultural experience, not least It was important for the club to cooperate with all the different public agencies and voluntary organisations that were concerned about these issues. So here we are facing volunteers who are taking on a major role in society which is integration, which has the objectives clear, which can show a number of measures that have been taken and objectives that have been achieved and which have clear priorities for what needs to be worked on. But then here too, most of the time goes by getting money for the project. Applications for public services have been submitted in hops. I have, like many others, met a fireworks of a lady with an commitment to this work that is important to take care of, and it applies to both the work and the enthusiasm that these people have. The developed model, the Vard model, can be transferred to other voluntary teams and associations throughout the country. There is great interest in this way of working, and Inger Rossebø has been in Bergen, Stavanger, Bodø and Tromsø and informed about how this work works and what they have been closed down with. She is a good ambassador for this measure. Now we've got a government council responsible for all that volunteer work. It gives you more chance to see things in context and how you can benefit from good ideas and transfer them to others. Overall, it can provide better use of economic resources and it is important. This project in Haugesund has continued to function financially every year, but those who would work with children and integration need to spend too much time searching for money. There are funds available for various actions in the various departments of their budget. But I have to say that I think it is positive that we have received a minister who will in a way take responsibility for coordinating, coordinating, action – at least it has the possibility. Perhaps there are more examples than those I have mentioned in the Vard model of integration measures. It could be an idea bank. The group that is working on this action has taken a lot of social responsibility. To further develop the project, they now have the initiative to set up a resource group across voluntary teams and organisations in the area. The aim is to activate multicultural and Norwegian women through simple measures. This work is also very important. With the Council of State help to look through more departments for money, and with political support from the various parties, we could show that by securing this project financial support over a three-year period, we had the opportunity to demonstrate that this is one way to go. But then the council must be willing to be involved and help to get this done, so that the economy is clear for a three-year period. From the department's side, you can set requirements that you can use to transfer the ideas to others. This model and project can therefore be a major resource for a department occupied by all the voluntary organizations. My challenge to the government council is: will the government take this staf stick and bring this project to a steadyer funding than it has in these years? And will the Council of State use this model as an example of how to get this around in the whole country? Because it's important that you have some ambassadors – and projects – to show that you've done a lot of basic work, so that you don't do the same work many times and use the small public funds on the same things every time, but you can go on. This is a good project, which has shown so good results that it should be passed on.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-21.ana.ud1260e412	It is the government's goal to ensure that immigrants have the same opportunity to participate in social and labour life as other parts of the people. Voluntary organisations in the field of sport and in other areas of society make a major contribution to integration both through specific actions and through their regular work, including inter-pellant activities. On a state level, the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs is responsible for the integration policy. At the same time, it applies so-called sectoral responsibility. The objective of integrating and including people with a migrant background is for all sectors of society. This means that we need to ensure that service provision is adapted to people with a migrant background and that we need to take the immigrant and minority perspective into account in general work. Much of the practical responsibility for the integration of refugees living in a municipality has been added to the municipalities, which receive integration grants from the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs. According to the information I have received, Vard cooperates with many authorities on the Vard model, and one of them is, of course, the municipality of Haugesund. Under the budget of the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs, provision is also made for various supplementary schemes for specific integration measures for immigrants. Some of these funds are distributed by the state municipalities. The Ministry of Regional Affairs has stated that the sports team Vard has received grants from the municipality of Rogaland for the integration of refugees and immigrants. I found it very positive that the sports team was engaged for immigrants and refugees. There is a good example of the work done by many voluntary organisations, both in sports and in other areas of society. There are many sports – especially in the larger cities – that make a good effort to integrate children and young people with a migrant background into sport through their ordinary work. Not everyone has received the same attention as Vard. There may be different reasons, but those who run the Vard model have been good at marketing their model. They've invited important people to look at the work they're doing – and that's good! Because of this, they have also received a lot of attention. When it comes to the traditional work being done, they do this because there are many families with a migrant background in the impact area of the sports teams that do it. Through it, they realize the vision of sport for everyone. The Ministry of Culture and the Church contributes to sport activities for children and young people through the Norwegian Sports Association and the Olympic Committee, and through the funding schemes for local activities for children and young people, which benefit sports councils. In addition, over several years the Ministry has seen a special pot of money that NIF shares in activity development and social inclusion in sports. Target groups are children and young people between six and 19 years of age who fall outside the ordinary range of activities and sports, with particular emphasis on girls,migrants and children and young people with problematic behaviour or who are not physically active. NIF states that Vard has received information about the scheme, but Vard has not applied for funds to support his work. Voluntary organisations are important actors in terms of integration and inclusion. The sports team Vard and their work with the Vard model is a good example of this. As Minister of Voluntary Action from 2005 – I have not yet been, but I will take responsibility on 1 January 2005 – it is my responsibility to follow up the Government's goal of facilitating voluntary action. I think all the departments are going to review their grant schemes to assess whether it's possible to simplify procedures for applying and reporting for such supplements, because it's like the interpellant says, that many people spend a lot of money on office work instead of out-of-office work. The Vard judgment shows that it is not only the state, but also the municipalities, who need to look at how they cooperate with and use volunteers to solve public tasks. So, as I've done well, I've been able to find more sources of resources for the local integration work they're doing, and Haugesund Municipality is their natural main partner. Thus, the Ministry of Culture and the Church has made funds available for measures to contribute to social integration through the Norwegian Sports Association and the Olympic Committee. As the interpellant mentions, there is a lot of work on applications, and one of my important tasks is to get a simplification. Some of the things we're going to start working with over Christmas are creating a web portal where all those who do volunteer work can easily go in and get an overview of where they have the opportunity to search, and where they can find help and support for their work. I believe that it will also help to facilitate their work in relation to getting funds to carry on their work. Then I thought that Vard should be looking for what already exists, so that they can drive forward a model that many of us know, that I think everyone is excited about, and that I also think some other municipalities can benefit from getting to know, so that they can also have a good job of integration by combining it with sports, as they do in Haugesund.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-21.ana.ud1260e447	I want to thank the Council of State for the answer, which was not uplifting in relation to what I asked them about. It is clear that this is one example – I will not deny that there are many good examples in Norway – but it is important that we do not become so bureaucratic that we cannot think politically and use anything of what has been done, and further develop it. When this Vard model, for which the Council of State now says that one is excited, has received great attention, it's because he's used to show up. Prime Minister Bondevik has used him several times in his speeches. So it's clear that when he gets so much attention, it's also expected that one would put up with money. So I'm not going to deny for all of these sums that the council says it's in different departments, because that's enough. It's clear that people see what the county council has to do with these projects. At least I have been informed that the county council has a pot of NOK 200000, such as. Where to search. Once applications are received that are ten times as large, there is not much to pick up. Last year, the NOK 10 000 of what went to the county municipality. When the government as it is now gives so little money of the free income to municipalities and county councils, it's almost unmistakable that there's something to pick up. Although local authorities are responsible for facilitating integration, there is almost no means to apply for the voluntary teams and organisations. When one strangles the funds to the municipalities and county councils, there will be little money left. What is obviously positive is that the Council of State says it will look at everything that can be done by simplification in relation to applications. I look forward to that. Simplification is important, but there must also be someone who takes a political approach. I hope that – I was going to tell the Minister of Volunteers – the Council of State, which is responsible for this from next year, will do so, so that one gets more money to spend on activity, and one doesn't have to drive and search in different posts. Can't the Council of States at least be willing to invite those who have worked on such a project to an idea of what to do in order to carry on this important work? I believe that they will disappear from exhaustion when they do not receive money from either the municipalities or municipalities, when the municipalities have to take their statutory duties seriously, and do not have the means to do so. My challenge is that the Council of State needs to do something more about this.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-21.ana.ud1260e460	When I sat and listened to the interpellant, I wondered if the interpellant was listening to what I said. It's a little weird, because we've actually seen money in the department. We're not talking about $200,000. Let's talk about almost 10 million. kr, which can be applied to just such a model and just such work as Wasd drive. I didn't think it would be right for me to say that of course Vard would get a guarantee for a three-year trial project, when they actually don't try to get money where they are going, for exactly what they're doing. I believe my main task as a volunteer minister is to simplify and facilitate access to information, among others. through a web portal, which I called. So we have established supplementary schemes aimed at providing sports facilities for children and young people who are either inactive or immigrants, as I mentioned in my speech. So I haven't even tried to get anything from the pot. This scheme is administered by the Norwegian Sports Association and the Olympic Committee, which distribute funds following applications from individual organisations. That's what I thought Vard should do to test whether there's money there. It's not like the ministry is distributing money to individual projects. We're going to give funds, and the money's going to be distributed to the individual project. Then you have to search for them to get them. That doesn't seem to me to be a negative answer. We are all pleased with the efforts they make in Haugesund when it comes to the Vard model. It would be very good if other municipalities and other sports teams had seen something similar going on. But I would also like to stress that there is a lot going on around, especially in the big cities, which are dealing with exactly the problem that Vard is busy with in Haugesund. I would also like to add that we have done a lot of other things to make voluntary work a little more liberal. Among other things, we have in the case of a tax deduction scheme where the sport is also included, despite some newspapers trying to write that they are not, they are. Then people who want to be with and support during work can give money to sports, which in turn can get resources to run activities for children and young people. Indirectly, it is also a way of channelling government transfers through tax havens that can stimulate voluntary efforts. As I know it, there's a system that the Labour Party is opposed to, but it's going to help stimulate the voluntary effort, not only in Haugesund, but also within Sports Norway, because they're part of this system. So I hope that, when we started this work after Christmas, we show that we've gone into simplification here. We want to create activity. We want to be part of it and fix it. We encourage Vard to apply for money where they are to pick up, where we have seen funds for exactly the kind of work that they in the Vard model are busy with.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-21.ana.ud1260e473	It is a very important and very topical topic that the representative of Frøiland addresses in his interpellation. Vard in Haugesund is doing a great job. Fortunately, there are still fire souls. The issue raised by Frøiland also applies to all non-governmental organisations. They're all doing a very important and socially useful job. The countless voluntary teams and organisations do a formidable job, not only integrating children and young people, but also activating and offering an offer to all children and young people in our country. There is no doubt that voluntary teams and organisations get an incredible amount more out of every penny they get than actions funded and implemented in public. It is therefore clear that voluntary teams and organisations are dependent on predictable income. This applies in particular to all voluntary teams and organisations involved in action for children and young people and disabled people. In the event of a loss or a reduction in income due to a change in the key after the introduction of slot machines, a number of voluntary teams and organisations now need to spend a lot of time and resources on raising funds on other teams and thus not do what they should have done to activate and integrate children and young people. When the Council of State says that she does not become Minister of Volunteering until 2005, it is certainly right, but in the Department of the Council of State there is still the distribution of the key, which also contributes to voluntary teams and organisations. Hopefully she's already on the side with the volunteer teams and organizations, I think. On 30 April 2004, the Prime Minister sent out a press release calling for voluntary teams and organisations to release more freedom and for the government to control them to a lesser extent. These were good signals for Freedom Norway. Yes, we have even received a State Council to be Minister of Volunteering from 2005. In the press release from the Prime Minister, he says that ‘the hostages will flourish’. I don't think that an unpredictable economy and the fact that you have to go back to waffle cutting and hard work to get the ends to meet makes the fire cells bloom, rather on the contrary. Without replenishment of good manure, the fires themselves wither. The challenge for the Minister of Volunteering will be to take care of the commitment and the fires. We need them in Norway. Provide voluntary teams and organisations with the necessary predictability in their economy, so that they can do the job they burn for. They deserve to provide voluntary teams and organisations with a committed, clear and not least visible Minister of Volunteering.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-21.ana.ud1260e486	First, I want to say that I am very happy that it is the Minister of Culture who is here today to discuss this. Very often, when we discuss issues relating to the important integration and inclusion of young people and others with immigration backgrounds, it is said that this is about people with a foreign background, so this is a question of integration for the municipal minister. That's why I'm very happy that it's the Minister of Culture who's here, because this isn't about it. If we're going to create a society where we can erase the distinctions and make ourselves more color-blind, while at the same time being able to grasp the important question of including people with a different background, it's necessary that each of the ministers in their field do their job. That is why I am pleased that Svarstad Haugland is here today. The Council of State points out that there are some government pots, both on the municipal ministry side, with integration measures in the municipalities – a pot strengthened in the budget of the year – and in the budgets delegated to the municipalities. But the big problem and the big challenge lies in the extension of the reasoning that the Minister of Culture led, namely that at national level we can have project funds that last for one, two or three years, but the important work is the long-term and thorough work that takes on the projects and says that this is actually something we have to continue to do, and then they take it into account and finance it locally. Then one depends on having a municipal sector, both with county municipalities and local municipalities, which has an economy in which they are able to say that we are not just going to do the statutory tasks; we are going to do the tasks that collectively create a better society in the municipality in which we live. It is a problem that this government is pursuing a policy that consistently ensures greater growth in private consumption and consistently prioritises it — even stronger next year than this year — at the expense of investing in community solutions locally. It is just a model that the Vard model will suffer in the long term, because we can give money at the central level for one, two or three years, as the interpellant suggests, but the long-term work must be done locally. This year alone, for example, the municipal sector receives at least NOK 2 billion in lost tax revenue. I wonder what the Minister of Culture would say if she had received 2 billion kroner in lost incomes to communicate over her budget. Then there would be much less culture left, and that's exactly what we see around the country. It's going to be less of what's good, because the municipalities are suffering.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-21.ana.ud1260e495	I think the Vard model deserves all the praiseworthy words from this pulpit that it has received today. It's a great initiative, and it's proven to be durable. There are some initiatives that have been shown not to survive, but the Vard model has proved to work well over time, and it has also been a model and an inspiration for similar initiatives in other parts of the country. The main challenge for the Vard model throughout all these ten years is to ensure stable funding. Interpellant sees a three-year period during which the state also contributes with funding. For my part, I agree with that. The Councils have explained that both the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs and the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Churches have funds, which they have again channeled to the counties, the Norwegian Sports Association and the Olympic Committee, to name a few. They then decide how the funds are to be allocated to individual projects. I think this is the only dangerous practical way to do it. I am pleased with the recognition and the certificate given today by the Minister of Culture and the Church to the Vard model. I think it may have an impact on the follow-up to this matter. The Vard model must gradually finance and anchor its budgets in the usual channels – self-financing and support from municipalities and county councils. I agree with the inter-pellant that as long as the Vard model is also a pilot project and a model for similar projects elsewhere in the country, it also deserves government funding, at least for a limited period of time. Regardless of who is the recipient of this application, I hope that this round in the Stortinget has shown that there is a broad political consensus on such an approach, and that the Vard model should also be ensured such co-financing by the State. I want to be practical and concrete and say it this way: I think for my part that the Norwegian Sports Association and the Olympic Committee are the natural addressee of addressing the Vard model's share in government budgets. They have been allocated funds by the Ministry to target the target groups for which the Vard model is working.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-21.ana.ud1260e511	The Central Party supports the inter-pellant in the importance of integrating children with backgrounds such as immigrants, refugees and asylum seekers into Norwegian society. When it comes to the Vard model, the Center Party has picked this up earlier and pointed out that the model lacks funds. There are many voluntary organisations that have taken the initiative of a number of actions aimed at creating understanding and respect between people with different backgrounds. They praise the effort and the commitment. The interaction between the volunteer forces around the country and public authorities has led to actions and activities that have contributed positively to very many people. But unfortunately, there are many, as several speakers before me have stressed, who use time, energy and resources to secure the financing of their projects. And the funding, as we have said before, is characterized by being unseemly, which in turn leads to people going tired and giving up. The big community is thus missing valuable support players, the support players we simply can't afford to miss. The Council of State said in its reply that voluntary activities should be easier to carry out. She wants to simplify the legislation, and it's positive. But I have to remind the Council of State that the application amount far exceeds the funds put at their disposal. I would also like to remind the Council of State that the Government repeatedly reminds the municipalities that it is the statutory tasks that are to be given priority, and it is not exactly an encouragement to the voluntary organisations to seek support for their activities. The organized sport is in many ways a model in practical work for integration and against racism. The Vard model is a good example in this way. It would have been interesting to learn more about children and young people with a minority background who are less involved in sport than other young people, and how to get more adults with a minority background in them as trainers or leaders. The Vard model and the corresponding project should be secured with stable funding over a certain period, either three years, as the interpellant claims, or two or four years – stability is the key. As I said, we have put forward proposals; we have put in more resources for voluntary organisations that carry out integration work. We have to be positive, not just in words, but also in action.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-21.ana.ud1260e527	When some of us had the opportunity to learn more about this Vard model, and were presented to it, we were very excited. This is precisely a model that gives hope for good results in integration policy in practice. Sports in general, but football in particular, don't need a language course. Football is joy, commitment and cooperation. Although football is a great starting point for what's the whole purpose of the Vard model, it doesn't stop at the sports' own circuits, of course. That's what other co-players had to do. The Vard model therefore has close and natural cooperation with, among others. the refugee unit, the school nearby, Haugesund Red Cross, Norwegian People's Aid, the police preventive group and not least the municipality of Haugesund. The Council of State noted that there are several teams that have good solutions for the integration of children and young people. Here I would like to mention that the project manager of the Vard model has had close contact with Vålerenga, who has worked to achieve a good environment in the club. I give tribute to the interpellant, who has taken this up, for this is about the Vard model, but also much more. This is an interpellation that is about prevention and that it benefits. However, it is difficult to finance because the municipality fund is scraped. It is therefore essential to see prevention as an investment in the future. And as Eli Sollied Överaas said, the number of applications exceeds the amount of appropriations available in the budgets now. And if you're going to be creative, don't think new and come up with good ideas, you have to know what you have to plan from. That's why it's so important that the Vard model now secures a stable economy, so that they can help other teams that want to achieve the same – that they can travel around and give advice on how to proceed to achieve it. Because, as I said, football, among other things, doesn't need a language course.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-21.ana.ud1260e538	The council said I didn't listen. My hearing isn't so bad, but I'm just a little confused. I had hoped for a little more will to do something. Governments point out that the Vard model has been an important project to show, and all the others who have spoken in this interpellation debate have also shown that this is a pilot project on which one can and should build. Then it could be that Vard has not applied for funds a place where they should search. Of course they should, but they can afford to search for all possible resources. Running preventive work among refugees and asylum seekers is an important work, it is a giving job, but not many are in line to give money. Therefore, it is important that a be sure economy, and I thought the previous Council of State from the Christian People's Party was very clear that there should be state funding for this pilot project. I hope that this Council of States will do more than make it a little easier to search – because it is important, let me just underline it – take some initiatives to get people together, use the pilot project to show others what to do, and be a little active among the volunteers, because it is unlikely that they will not get tired and that they will not bother to apply for funds. When it's so broad that some projects have to find a solution using the state, I hope, even if the government didn't have any money today, that one will use this pilot project to show others how they can take advantage of the work that has already been done. And I'm a little disappointed that the Council of State couldn't say that she would spend a little time passing this on over a two-three-year period, so that we have a little stable framework conditions. I don't mean that one should be dependent on a rich uncle or a rich aunt who wants to give money and get tax deductions. I encourage everyone to give money – I think it's okay, and I like to give it myself. But that one should tempt people with tax deductions to do preventive work in sports is my concern. I just take the challenge that has come up in our press release, where it is said that now the fires must flourish. Then we need a volunteer minister who does a little more than create a portal online, shows how important it is to support the work, and takes initiatives for cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-21.ana.ud1260e553	Since I was a little awkward when I introduced my previous article, I'm not going to be that right now. I would like to thank the interpellant for raising the issue. It is very interesting and important that we focus on the voluntary field, and I like to get started with the responsibility I'm going to have over the New Year – although of course I already have a part of the volunteer in my department today. At the same time, sectoral responsibility lies with the departmental departments, but I will have a superior responsibility. One of the most important things is to make it easier for organisations, because what we've experienced in the last few years – it hasn't happened overnight, it's been happening for many years through different governments – is that it's more and more built up so that if they get money, they'll do what we politicians want to do, and then they'll make applications that fit what we want them to do. That's how we've put a tight hand on the organizations. I don't want to disclaim the Labour Party's responsibility for it either, because it has to be a willful policy for organizations to do what we politicians want them to do, and then they will get money if we think the application meets the requirements we have for their work. I think we should release them. Then it has to be that we also give money to things we don't like, because the organizations are happy about it, of course, as long as they stay within. Norwegian law. Then they shouldn't make all these applications. Maybe they'll get more support for operations without it being based on applications and on the paper mill that we have today, while at the same time having to have some sort of control over public money. I think we should do it. When it comes to the work of the Vard model, there is a combination of sport measures, which should receive funds from the sports budget, and integration measures, which should receive funds from other budgets. I think we can do that too. But it's important that one then sit down and search for funds where they are going, because they have an important task and vision in relation to their work. Another thing that I also want to do better than today are meeting places for voluntary organisations. Then the idea from the interpellant is to have ideas and meeting places for those who do the work, which I want to take with me in the further work. That's a good idea, and I've already thought a bit about it. But those meeting places are important that we, as state authorities, are involved in facilitating, and we will. So a little talk to Eirin Fallet, who says footballers don't need language courses. Maybe it's like an underdog on the football course. I've got a richer language. If it is very positive, can be discussed – I have never learned as many banners as when I have been to football matches in England! So there's a lot that's being said from the Tribune anyway. But the players can do it without a language course, that's what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-21.ana.ud1260e570	Case No. So 3 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-21.ana.ud1260e580	Then we're ready for voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-21.ana.ud1260e599	In Case No: 2 and 3 there is no voting theme.
