ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-08.ana.ud953e28	A number of permit applications are available: From the representative of Knut Storberget on maternity leave from 12 January to 9 February. From the representatives Siri Hall Arnøy, Heikki Holmås and Audun Bjørlo Lysbakken on leave from 13 January to 16 January, all to participate in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Fourth World Parliamentary Forum and the Fourth World Social Forum respectively, in Mumbai, India. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The applications shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For Akershus County: Christian Holm For the state of Hedmark: Grethe G. Fossum For the province of Hordaland: Ragna Flotve For Oslo: Akhtar Chaudhry 3rd@item: inlistbox Ragna Flotve is elected to Lagtinget for the time she meets the representative of Audun Bjørlo Lysbakken.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-08.ana.ud953e94	"We're not learning for school, we're learning for life," said the Roman philosopher Seneca 2,000 years ago. Karen Blixen says, "School isn't life, and life doesn't take place after school; it's the school that's going to take place after life." Yes, that's how we can philosophers at the beginning of 2004. Today, it's the high school that's the theme, but really it's the young people between 13 and 16 years of age we're talking about. Schools are about people and their lives. St.meld. No 29 for 1994-95, About the principles and guidelines of ten-year primary school — a new curriculum — clarified that primary school reform should contribute to the renewal of primary school as a substantive bridge between kindergarten, primary and secondary education. The Communication stressed that the organisation and content of primary schools should be based on the principles of progress, professional differentiation and the increasing number of professionals with a higher age, and that each step should have its pedagogical distinctive character. About eight to ten. the class says that it should prepare the youth for secondary education, and a more analytical and critical approach should be taken to the teaching material. The guiding principles were equivalent and adapted to training for all. But this should prove to be more difficult to realize than initially assumed, and a new curriculum has not led to any continuous change in the level of performance of students. Youth is characterised by far more traditional structures related to subjects, time use and documentation forms than the other stages. In addition, the evaluation of reform highlights 97 unclear and unclear technical requirements. It seems that the teachers work hard to make professional demands for the students, especially in the youth. Gunn Imsen points out in his research of Reform 97 that the scope of adapted training is widely endorsed by the teachers, but practice is not consistent with it. Teachers refer to their own practices as more progressive than the students feel it is. School participation is less in childhood than in childhood. Youth is most characterised by traditional class instruction. It has less varied patterns of work and organisation, and the role of pupils is more uniform. The degree of differentiation, individualisation, adapted training and inclusion is less at the youth level. Individualisation tends to cause students to work in writing, and it can go beyond the class community when the size increases. Thus, several researchers conclude that there is a great need for change in youth. Now this should not be a complaint about Norwegian school, nor about youth. I know very well that there is a lot of good work in the schools. But we'd like to have a high school at all stages, and so today it's the youth class that's in the spotlight. I also know that there will be a new big message for the spring that will take all the initial training into closer inspection. Introducing a new curriculum is a lot of work and is quite different. There is great variation between municipalities and schools in how they have done the task. It is stated that in the case of youth, some school owners have not been able to engage their staff sufficiently to develop quality in school or to establish the reform. The most advanced schools seem to have been involved in fairly extensive and long-term development work, where the whole school has been involved. There is also uncertainty about the definition of the new approaches to which L97 emphasises, for example: what thematic and project work means. The school for project work has been weak, and it is also reported that the curricula are very detailed. In that case, interdisciplinary project work will be difficult. Training that was distinct from Reform 97 has not only been successful. The evaluation suggests that traditional continuing training often does not work well enough. This also applies to ICT, which I have mentioned with the Council of State in the past. When we know that the teacher is a key factor in relation to the student's learning outcomes, it's important to do something right here. If school reforms are to affect the teacher's work at school, follow-up through school practice and subject-specific continuing education is to be pursued. School owners must take it seriously that teachers are given good opportunities for this. ‘A lamp to light for others must itself glow,’ says the Indian Nobel Prize winner Tagore, quoted in Inge Eidsvåg’s book ‘The Teacher’. And how does a teacher keep the glow? Eidsvåg answers this: By being constantly in self-development. What is one in self-development? By constantly being inspired and learning more — through the meeting with students, reading, courses, travels, projects, leave. If as a teacher I don't find the teaching material and work meaningful, how am I going to be able to arouse and keep the interest of the students? I think this is the prerequisite for all learning. It was formulated like this by Augustin 1600 years ago: "Nothing is understood, which is not first loved," Eidsvåg continues in his book. The small school stage received a lot of attention when Reform 97 was introduced, due to the six-year-old’s admission march in Norwegian school. This was the most visible new and therefore became most focused on. Students have gone to school for seven years when they start high school, and most have, in fact, approx. seven years of study ahead of 10 years after completion of the 10th grade. So the youth stage is in the middle of the education cycle. It is important to clarify that this is an independent part of initial training, while at the same time acting as a link to secondary education. When we know that the very age of youth is special to the development of every human being, it goes without saying that the experience of schooling has a lot to say. The trends of youth age may be marked by major upheavals. Research shows that too much emphasis on the theory and lack of practical training in high school leads to the disapproval of many students. They lose their motivation and take the frustration out in turmoil and trouble. In Sandefjord, a project called ‘Practical alternative training’ has been developed to give more students the feeling of mastering school life in collaboration with the local business community. This could be an example for others. Some students are unobtrusive and therefore receive a lot of attention. The intruding students we don't know much about. But common to most people is that they will be seen. It's also a teacher's job to create well-being and a good learning environment. Care is considered a prerequisite for learning. There is no contradiction between the knowledge teacher and the care teacher. Teachers and school leaders who stand together and take responsibility, who are decisive and predictable, who mark borders and give positive attention, are essential to the professional and social development of students. This is how students learn driving rules for interpersonal relationships, and they become active partners in creating a good and safe learning environment at school. Teachers generally feel that they are professionally sure of what they are doing. But high school teachers have less security than primary school teachers. At the same time, they report less cooperation, lower levels of job satisfaction and greater ambiguity in the role. This can be seen in a doctoral thesis that is referred to in the Evening Post on 29 November 2003. This study shows that it is the youngest and the oldest teachers who say this and that the teachers who cooperate most report more certainty in the role that they learn. Developing tutors for teachers, a kind of mentoring system, is a way of doing this. You haven't graduated yet, leaving the teacher's training arena. It is important to follow-up, not least for high school teachers. 65 pst. say they're never observed by a colleague to discuss how they work in the classroom. Good teachers must be motivated, not least to remain in school. School research indicates that the difference between a good and a bad teacher is not primarily in what kind of education or how much experience the teacher has. It is very much about personal qualities and motivation. Follow-up from home is known to increase learning outcomes for students. Studies show that parents are positive at school and largely satisfied with the information provided by the school. But they feel that the real influence of their parents is very small. A project evaluated by NOVA reveals that cooperation between home and school got worse as the students got older, so that there was a lot of this at the youth level. It was also stressed that the fathers were too little of the cooperation with the school. The interaction between home and school is important in order to achieve a good growth environment. It is therefore good that the Department, together with the Education Association and the Parental Committee, FUG, have focused on the issue of bullying, and it turns out that it is useful. When we know that approx. 20 pst. students in high school have felt that they were afraid to go to school because of bullying, the school alone cannot do anything about this. Training is not only an individual project but also an investment in the community. In addition to investing more in school-home co-operation, youth counsellors also need to be included much stronger and more time for their work. The position of the Quality Committee refers to researcher Thomas Nordahl, who believes that the school faces major challenges in creating a bridge between the world of students and the traditional school world. Youth students are in the middle of puberty, in the search and testing phase, and Nordahl claims that many of the pupils’ actions in school will be influenced by social relationships with peers and should therefore be understood in the light of the community between young people. There seems to be a need for more research into students' experiences and experiences in school.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-08.ana.ud953e124	The evaluation of reform 97 consists of 26 projects and a number of reports with different approaches to the reform. It is true, as the representative Scarbøvik says, that some of the conclusions of the evaluation point to the fact that youth development has been less visible and less visible than in childhood, particularly in small schools. The small school class received a lot of attention because the 6-year-olds became schoolchildren and a new year-old was going to start school. The reform was introduced over three years. In 1997, a new curriculum was applied for 1st, 2nd, 5th and 8th grade and then for one class step per year. the main step each year. In this way, the reform was introduced in parallel at all main stages, and at the same time new textbooks were introduced, both small and medium-sized. The development of the skills of teachers at all stages was also facilitated at the same time. The small school stage received structural change and a lot of external and internal attention, but other efforts benefited from the same amount of youth. At the same time, it must be stressed that the curriculum highlights the specific nature of the main steps and that the requirements for content and working conditions in secondary school must be different from those in secondary school. Pre-school education was introduced at the small school stage and led to changes in working methods and a greater degree of flexible organisation. Researcher Peder Haug, who has led the evaluation of Reform 97, points out in the final report for the evaluation of the reform that the reform appears to have different consequences for the main steps, especially when comparing early schooling and youth. To the extent that the results can be characterised as better for the small school stage than for the young, they are targets in relation to the intentions of the reform. Differences are described as significant in terms of time use, organisation and operation. There may be many reasons why the changes in youth have not been as comprehensive as the curriculum provided. Let me mention someone. Eighteenth grade, which started secondary school as a reformer in the fall of 1997, graduated from primary school in the spring of 2000. The evaluation of reform 97 has therefore been carried out relatively shortly after the implementation of the reform. In summarising the evaluation, Peder Haug points to this. He says it's too early to say whether Reform 97 has been successful, and that the school's educational tradition suggests that change takes time. The evaluation shows considerable differences between schools and between municipalities in the level of implementation of the reform. School and municipal management is described as a central factor in this, as is competence. At a young age, of course, professional competence will be central, but the report also highlights knowledge of forms of work and so-called activity education. In recent years, youth has received a lot of attention. In 2000, the strategy for quality development in primary schools for 2000–03 was presented. In the foreword to it it says: ‘The quality development work concerns the entire primary school, but in the first instance special attention is given to the youth.’ In this major effort, municipalities were allocated several hundred million kroner in government support for skills development and other development work, and a very large proportion of this has been earmarked for youth. The initiative is evaluated by SINTEF Technology Management and the Danish University of Education. Preliminary results from the evaluation suggest that this effort has led to a high level of involvement in high school, with emphasis on the learning environment and the organisation of education. The evaluation will not be completed until spring 2004. Three secondary schools in each country received special funding in 2001 to develop resource allocation and alternative organisation models, and many secondary schools have participated in centrally initiated work-time trials. Out of 346 primary schools that started the 2001 working time trial, 38 were pst., i.e. 130 schools, secondary schools or combined primary and secondary schools. A great deal of effort has also been made for a good learning environment throughout primary school, including early childhood, in recent years. Youth schools have widely used anti-tampering programmes, and school mediation has been introduced in conflict management. Youth schools are also well represented among the award and demonstration schools designated in 2002 and 2003. This means that many secondary schools are well advanced in quality development. The main question of the interpellation is what the Council of State will do to increase the competence and knowledge of the particular nature of youth. In my opinion, we now have quite a lot of knowledge about the situation in school, including about the peculiarity of youth. In my time as Minister of Education, I have sought to further strengthen this knowledge. The main purpose of knowledge is to use it as a basis for further improvement of the learning environment and learning outcomes. We are now building a national quality assessment system, consisting of national tests and the school port.no website. National tests are introduced gradually from spring 2004, and in the youth sector they will cover the subjects of Norwegian, English and mathematics. In the school port.no, which is used in the spring of 2004, all knowledge is gradually gathered in one place, both in terms of learning outcomes, results from user surveys, and so on. and resource use. Schools, school owners and central authorities thus receive a solid knowledge base for targeted school investment, both in general and in relation to specific areas, such as: different aspects of youth. In June, the Quality Committee presented its investigation into Norwegian initial training. The committee proposes a number of measures to stimulate better quality throughout initial training, and a number of proposals address youth in particular. The committee sees youth as part of primary school, but as much as a transition and bonding stage in an overall initial education. The Committee proposes the modernisation of youth through, inter alia: modular curricula, programme subjects, choice of modules from higher education and new subjects. In the spring of 2004, more specifically in March, a call for proposals for initial training will be made. The communication is based on knowledge we now have about the situation in school through the Quality Committee’s investigation and evaluation of Reform 97 and any other national and international research that might be of interest. It is therefore too early to say which proposals from the Quality Committee – or other proposals – are promoted in the Communication, but will include searchlights. be in the early stages. Once the adult learning message has been addressed and will be followed up, I will facilitate the support of school owners in the development of skills for those added at all levels of school. I want to ensure that teachers throughout Norway, through development of competences and dialogue, have a ownership relationship with the changes that are coming. I look forward to the introduction of the national quality assessment system during 2004 and the presentation and treatment of the baseline notification. It is important to have knowledge of school conditions, but even more important to use knowledge as a basis for quality development. In these days, a summary of the evaluation of Reform 97 is sent to all primary schools in the country. I hope the results of the evaluation will stimulate schools to work on quality development. In this way, knowledge could provide a basis for further development and improvement, including in the youth sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-08.ana.ud953e159	I thank you for the answer, and am happy to hear that the Council of State also takes the youth step seriously, of course, and that one should continue to work on this in the context of the new bigotry message coming to spring. I am fully aware that then the entire basic training will be seen in its context, and that then you will have a greater background to move on with the development of School Norway. I am also aware that it is early to say something about whether reform 97 has been successful or not, because not many years have passed since it started. But what we know is that it's the youth that comes out the worst. That's what's behind my interpellation. We now need to focus on youth. Some attention has been paid to this in recent years, and I am pleased to hear that an evaluation report on youth in particular is coming to spring. Anyway, I see that we have challenges here, because young people at their childhood age, in a special way, are on their way from children to adults. It is important to clarify that young people themselves have a self-esteem. The body is changing, and it is helping to influence the learning situation for the individual. That's why I think special efforts are needed to increase the level of knowledge and thus improve the level of learning for youth. Secondly, I believe that we have educational challenges here. What has emerged from the evaluation of reform 97 so far has shown that there is little variation and exchange between different forms of teaching at this stage. Reform 97 provided for use, for example: more thematic and project work. The feedback from the teachers suggests that this has not worked because the teachers did not get the necessary knowledge of how best to use this teaching method. It's a difficult pedagogical form, and here you need some follow-up. For example, more searchlights are needed in the CRL field, which is a new subject in Reform 97. This is where the training has been too weak. And in terms of digital competence, which is now a new field of activity, the majority of the Committee has said in its budgetary position that the allocation of resources for this should be seen in particular at the youth level. In addition, there are major concentration and motivation challenges. A report from the Center for Behavioral Research says that 25 pst. among the 9th grade pupils, there is a low level of meaning in school work. I am therefore in no doubt that high school needs to be renewed. At least the Christian People's Party will put greater effort into this step. We want to stimulate increased focus on practical subjects, flexible solutions and the follow-up of teachers. We therefore believe that research and educational development in relation to youth should be strengthened.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-08.ana.ud953e168	I agree with a lot of what the interpellant says, but there may be grounds for problemating a little bit at the time of the debate so far, and that is the claim – which in itself is not a claim, because that is what the researchers say – that the youth has come out of Reform 97. But it is, as I said in my main post, in relation to the intentions of Reform 97. And then you might also have to evaluate the intentions. Some of these intentions included: that a lot of thematic and project work was to be carried out, as the interpellant says. I think that's the basis for saying that not all of it has been successful in Norwegian school. This may be because, as the interpellant points out, the competence is too poor among teachers and there has been too little development of competence in thematic and project work. But it may also have been used too much and too uncritical, for example. because, from then on, the curriculum had too much methodological coercion of vis-à-vis teachers, with certain proportions of project work, etc. In my opinion, teachers should have a greater degree of freedom of method. It is important to have confidence that teachers are professionals. And that's why some of the intentions, in so far as they've been followed up, may actually be the cause of some of the problems we can see in Norwegian school today, with very big differences between students. This is what is now being discussed in several countries, whether this form of project work has done to the weakest students not a service, but rather a bear service, because it is often the weakest who need clear management, guidance, clear expectations and clear demands, because they cannot guide themselves, or because they do not have schooled parents. My point is that it is enough right to say that the youth stage has come out worse than the intentions, but sometimes the intentions have been such that it is an advantage to get out badly compared to them. This will be discussed in more detail in the communication. It was a bit demanding, but I think it's important to nuance that picture. And my approach is likely to be somewhat clearer than what's going to happen in training, but that teachers in return should have greater confidence as professional professionals. They themselves must have faith in the methods they use and knowledge of results so that they can possibly correct the price when the methods do not work.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-08.ana.ud953e175	I have to admit that I was a little uncertain about the intention of this interpellation and what approach I should choose for my contribution, because 3 minutes of speaking time would never justify the views of the Workers' Party in relation to neither the evaluation report nor the content of the youth. I just want to say, of course, that we also believe that youth must be given the necessary attention. The evaluation report points to specific change needs that I agree with. I don't necessarily want to put it to you that the youth stage is the worst, but rather say that the change process is getting shorter than the small school stage. So I would also like to stress that even though we're going to focus on one step in relation to the interpellant's intention, it's important to see the relationship between the different steps, and especially the transition between them. I hope that the big message we get will focus on that. However, if the interpellant believes that the department has not done enough, and wants a unanimous opinion from the Stortinget that the Council of State needs to put more effort into generating knowledge, then I'm going to get rid of it here and now. But I would also like to stress that it is important to take care of the knowledge that we have acquired and that we are also going to use in dealing with the gross domestic product. I am thinking then of the evaluation report of Reform 97, which I believe provides important insight into the state of primary school, which draws on strong and weak sides, and which partly points to possible reasons for these. I put the emphasis on the points that one has not been able to achieve equivalent, adapted training, and that some groups systematically get short in primary school. I think that's serious. However, the results must not only be used as a success in the treatment of the spring morning news but be used further in the development of school content through practice and as a basis for more research. Politicians should not have ambitions to take decisions on everything related to out-of-school content. At the same time, I would like to point out the knowledge that lies in local development and that this needs to be exploited more systematically. Experience in good school practice needs to be disseminated. There'll never be enough knowledge, but we don't have to wait until improvements in school can happen. I would also like to mention another important point in the evaluation report, and that is the need for continuity and long-term perspective in education policy. Because, as it is said, it is far too early to conclude to what extent reform 97 has been successful or not. There is, however, a broad consensus on the objectives of primary school, and both pupils, parents and teachers give training a good boost. There should be a good starting point for the work that Stortinget will do in relation to the big message that we will receive and that will improve training for our young people.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-08.ana.ud953e195	It is an important topic that is addressed in today's interpellation, and I agree that youth has received too little attention. Of course, the reasons can be, and are, many. The need to look at youth and the challenges facing this stage is necessary. Not least, the evaluation of Reform 97 shows that. Traditionally, there are large differences between childhood and youth in both work purposes, organisation, pedagogical thinking, land use and time use. Less flexible time use, a highly professional schedule and more traditional classroom education have marked the youth scene to a large extent. When I started teaching at high school in 1975, we knew no other form of teaching than traditional classroom education. But I think you'll be able to see a development in recent years, where at this stage, too, one has the power to soften classroom education, get more flexibility into the schedule and put into practice more varied patterns of work and organization. Although I should be right in this observation, it's probably not possible to get away from finding more of the traditional school in childhood than in childhood. Some of the problems and challenges of youth in relation to students who are less motivated, and in relation to some serious disciplinary problems, may be caused by a traditional school pedagogy that does not have the power to meet individual lives where the individual student is. Instead of meeting the student where the student is, the school has ordered the student to meet the school where it is. In many cases, there has been a problem meeting. At a young age, there are major educational challenges in meeting and passing on the students. There is a lot of evidence that it is not and at least will not be good enough to continue without taking the challenge inwards and being open to change. The evaluation of Reform 97 shows that more researchers are aware that there is a great need for changes in the youth sector. More than childhood, probably the childhood has been the teacher's arena. I mean, budget-inner. S. No 12 for this year, the majority say that ‘it is important to have a more student-active school’. Stronger involvement of pupils, but also by parents, will be an important contribution to meeting the educational and organisational challenge in order to increase the level of knowledge. If this is to succeed, it is necessary to invest in increased skills and knowledge and not just in the characteristics of youth. It is necessary to invest on a broad basis on the teachers at the stage and on development measures at the stage. The conversion of teacher training that is now taking place on the basis of St.meld. No 16 for 2001–02, is an important element in enhancing competence, but it is also very important that youth is given the necessary priority in the allocation of resources for the development of skills for the teacher. Particular attention needs to be paid to youth, including: for the treatment of the setting up of the Quality Committee and also a special priority in terms of resources. Without this, we will not have the changes needed to meet the challenges of the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-08.ana.ud953e208	I am glad that today we have put the secondary school in focus. It's absolutely right and very important, the representative Elsa Scarbøvik here promises, the need to increase competence and knowledge about the peculiarity of this step. The Christian People's Party wants a reform of high school. I'm not in doubt that the general part of the curriculum did a lot of good. Not least shifted that focus from teaching to learning. But as one in the evaluation points out, and as many people have said, both students, parents and teachers, we've got a theory of high school. Even the so-called practical-esthetic subjects have become more theory. There is more art history in art and crafts than the veil was in the old arts. We have to have more practical subjects and practical activities back to high school, if not for all students, so too many students. We still have in many places a secondary school with old forms of work and with ‘we're going to the beat school’, where everyone is going to do the same. We need freedom of action. We have said, and we have thought politically, that we should give local freedom of action. But we also need to give inspiration and the tools to put it to life in all the country's secondary schools. We need new occupational groups into high school, both because we lack some skills in many areas, and because it gives inspiration and increases overall competence. We need to take appropriate training seriously. All 10th-level students may not have the same need for a specific number of lessons or training in physical and mathematical practice. The custom training needs to be adapted. It's my claim that it's not like every tenth-level high school student needs 38 hours of music or 1 hour of music a week all year. The needs are different, and you also have to take on seriously organisationally. Why haven't we gotten better when we got L 97? Why are we not on top of international studies? One of the reasons is that we want everyone to learn everything all the time. We have a large subject area. We have to have much more flexibility. We learn from our mistakes, we say. It's completely wrong. We learn from our successes. We have to get away from that thinking, also politically, and give the teachers the freedom to think that the students will get more of what they're good at. We're giving more of what they're bad at. We give them special education. We give them more of what they like least. We have to give them more of what they like, professional immersion, flexible exams, optional grades, or formal assessment, as it is now called. We must be concerned with building a personal competence of our students, enabling them to make important choices and letting the personal competence, the built-up self-confidence, be the primary goal of the work. I hope this is reflected in the coming big message.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-08.ana.ud953e219	The evaluation of the L97 showed that the youth level did not have the expected quality either. The state of secondary school is a consequence of the fact that childhood education is too often weak. Looking at youth in isolation is wrong in the view of the Progress Party. The representative Scarbøvik said in his post: ‘It seems as if the teachers insist on making professional demands for the students.’ I can fully support this. There is a defect that seems to be in all training, that there is no requirement either for teachers or for students. In high school, it has long been claimed that students’ professional levels are too often too weak when they come from municipal school. Higher education has offered a qualifying course over many years, for example: in mathematics, so that students can follow and complete higher education. All of this is clear warnings and symptoms that the situation is precarious. It's in love with society in the future. It's much more precarious for the individual user. The Progress Party has promoted more solutions to this: 1st@item: inlistbox We wanted to differentiate teacher training, based on the normal model of five years of study with three years of Bachelor's degree with compulsory courses and specialisation via two years of master's degree. This would allow teachers to adapt to the entire school cycle, both in childhood and in childhood, to a greater extent than today.2. We have promoted demands for both professional and social skills from the fourth grade, by wanting a stronger focus on the student's professional level at all times.3. The behavioral problems that characterize school today, not only primary and secondary, but also higher education, higher education, working life and even old people at home, are a fact because people think they're allowed to behave as they please. They've never learned that they have to master themselves in some situations. We're back to this by making demands. In today's situation, it seems that we still operate with skipper roofs, projects and programs, instead of having integrated education that includes this in absolutely all subjects from the age of 6 to the doctoral student.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-08.ana.ud953e245	There is a continuous debate about our school, including the secondary school. And that's good. For spring, Stortinget receives a message based on the settings of the Quality Committee and many suggestions. When the Storting will then make decisions about the school of the future, it is important that we, as big-scale politicians and hence decision-makers, have sufficient knowledge of what we are going to decide about. It is commendable that the representative Skarbøvik travels an interview about parts of our primary school, about youth. We have a lot of knowledge today. The Minister of Education has previously stated that we have never had as much knowledge of what is happening in school as what we have today. It also offers good opportunities for us to actually make good and correct decisions when we're dealing with the big news for spring. The evaluation of reform 97, which has been ongoing from 1998 to 2003, and the final report there, is thought-provoking. I think it must have consequences for what is going to happen, and for how the bet is going to be in the school of the future. When I say that the final report is thought-provoking, it is among other things. because it asks questions about areas that I thought were good in Norwegian school. This applies, inter alia, to: What we've talked about many times, custom training. Researchers are asking whether there is simply sufficient knowledge among those who are going to teach in this area. And they're asking if there's enough education skills in the municipalities, i.e., at the school owners. As a former local politician, I saw that many municipalities actually built up the central school organisation of the municipalities, and thus often eliminated the professions in an attempt to rationalise and save. I think it might prove that this has been an expensive saving, because the researchers stress that there are considerable differences in the level of competence between school managers, and that very much development work actually depends on the individual school manager. Another area that is clearly identified is the working methods, or methods, used in school. Researchers believe that the competence of teachers is linked to dissemination-oriented pedagogics, while the competence of activity education, as stated in L97, is insufficient. In fact, this is especially true in high school. The evaluation of Reform 97 shows that initial training has little ability to organise training on the basis of students’ different assumptions, interests and needs, and that, instead of capturing students’ different assumptions and balancing differences, the school actually contributes to segregated differences. [[The President clubs.]] That's it! That's it!
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-08.ana.ud953e259	I thank you for an interesting debate and am pleased with the input that has come. It seems that we can agree, as the Committee also did in the budget setting, that we need to look at youth. The representative Bjørnstad says he's not quite sure if that's right, but it's not my words that we need a stronger focus on youth, it's the scientists who agree on it. That's what I'm referring to, and that's the starting point for the interpolation. So I want to put this in focus now, before writing a new big message about this. What the representative, Bjørnstad, otherwise, mentions, the local development work and the dissemination of experience, I fully agree with is very important. And precisely this will be taken into account when we get the evaluation later. Like the representative Olsen, who has experience in high school, I have also seen from my own experience how the teachers in the 1970s were able to do this with classroom education. There are many of us who are still in Norwegian school, who teach in the same way. But we know that times have changed, and I'm glad that he also stresses that we need to focus on the teacher and development of competence in this field. Bjørg Tørresdal takes this up with that theory-intensive school, and that we need more practical subjects. I fully agree with that. We must strengthen the flexibility of the local freedom of action that we want. Ursula Evje addresses this with professional requirements and underlines what I said about this. At the same time, I also stressed the importance of social development, that there is no contradiction between the care teacher and the knowledge teacher. This is also agreed by teachers. Rune J. Kjellaa says that the final report is thought-provoking, and that it must have consequences. I totally agree. What he points out about the school owners and competences there is also something the researchers point out, that in this area it turns out to be very different in the municipality of Norway. So it's also a field you should look at. So to the state council, who wants to nuance the picture. I fully agree with that. It is healthy to think through whether what was found to contain Reform 97 was correct. What has been achieved in relation to this project work is that the curricula are too extensive and therefore it is difficult to carry out multidisciplinary work. So here I fully agree that there can be clearer targets. If the teachers gain confidence in what they do, a lot is won. Surveys show that the vast majority of teenagers thrive at school. They're fine, most people say, although there's a lot of trouble and anxiety in the hours and this can be done in relation to the learning environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-08.ana.ud953e276	I would also like to thank you for the debate. Although I can imagine that in the meantime it is a little frustrating to have to turn to a message that has not yet arrived, it is at least very useful for the Council of State to listen to these debates in the context of the communication. It provides valuable input. It's said a lot of sense here today. The only thing I feel I need to distance myself from is that the situation is precarious in Norwegian school. I think that's too strong a negative expression. What we're saying here is something that there's reason to say, that knowledge is actually great, but we have to keep that level of knowledge high. There is quite a consensus today among those involved in the debate about the diagnosis. What are the main problems in Norwegian school? There is also a striking degree of consensus on the solutions if you listen to the debate here. You could say that the school debate often revolves around some questions. First, it is about the balance between professional and social tasks at school. I think we've come to agree more and more that there's no contradiction between having a school where you can both learn and be, and that we can learn the children to read and write better without having to go beyond well-being and the environment. It revolves a little bit around methods and forms of work. Here I guess many people agree that we should have great confidence that the teachers themselves can choose their methods to a greater extent. There are many methods that can work if the teacher is competent, committed, and ambitious on behalf of the students, even though I fully agree that it is a problem in the youth that many are tired of the theory and that it should be effective in relation to the methods used. So it revolves around the question of central and decentralised school management. I hear that there is a great deal of excitement that there should be a great deal of freedom of action for the schools. I think it's a very central point, which has been mentioned here today, that we need to disseminate knowledge and experience that we already have. In our midst, we probably have some of the world's best schools. Then it's about spreading the good experience and the good knowledge we now have, both about Norwegian school, about methods that work, etc., to others. For this reason, the conversion of the State education administration is also very important, especially in view of the fact that Norway is a country with many very small municipalities, and where some municipalities also build up their school-based skills and will then need support from another team to their schools. I think that's important. I think Norwegian school in a lot and a lot is good. But it's possible to get better even if you're good. For the sake in particular of the large proportion of students who perform poorly professionally, and not least of those students who are bullied and who suffer from it in school, we have a lot of work to do, but we're going to get back to that. Like other debates, this debate has provided useful input into the work of the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-08.ana.ud953e289	Then the interpellant debate is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-08.ana.ud953e300	There is no record.
