ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-01.ana.ud1531e47	On Monday, the Stortinget received a message from the Prime Minister's office that Prime Minister Kjell Magne Bondevik and Councillor Thorhild Widvey will meet for oral Question Time. The Prime Minister and the advertised member of the Government are present, and we are ready to start the oral questioning process. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, wish to ask themselves the main questions asked. – We will then start with the first main questions, from the representative Hill-Marta Solberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-01.ana.ud1531e56	I have a question for the Prime Minister. A short time ago, the Government presented the perspective communication, analysing the challenges facing Norway in the future. The government describes how difficult it will be to finance the common good in the future, such as pensions, health and care. And there will be no room for new reforms, according to the Government. At the same time, the government's policy is to weaken the public register through increasing tax relief. In the tax notice, which was presented in the spring, the government promised a new 16 billion kroner in tax reliefs. Does the Prime Minister not see that this is a double message? On the one hand, he tells people that they have to find themselves working more and perhaps getting tightened up in the pension, it might be necessary to pay more for the health services, etc., and on the other hand, the Prime Minister and the Government say that new tax reliefs, there is room for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-01.ana.ud1531e68	No, this is not a double message. Firstly, in that case, the Workers' Party itself has been responsible for a double message. After all, they have voted in favour of around DKK 13 to 14 billion in tax relief during this period, so if it were to destroy the welfare community, the Workers' Party has made a strong contribution. Of course that has not happened. In the 2005 budget, the Government proposes an increase in welfare schemes of approximately DKK 10 billion, while net tax relief amounts to DKK 1.6 billion. So there's six times as much in addition to well-being as in tax relief. Then the representative Hill-Marta Solberg must not make it so that our tax policy makes a development of the welfare society impossible. Secondly, she operates with 16 billion kroner in tax-free next period. She then forgets to subtract from what we expect to bring in the new dividend tax, which has otherwise been agreed with the Workers' Party, so the net is around NOK 3-4 billion lower. I'm asking for someone to notice. With regard to pensions, Hill-Marta Solberg has highlighted more than anyone else the importance of creating a reform that makes the pension system economically sustainable. The aim is to provide security for future pensioners. Hill-Marta Solberg was a member of the commission that presented a meritorious position. I expect that she is behind what she has been proposing.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-01.ana.ud1531e77	I am fully aware that the Workers' Party has also voted in favour of some tax exemptions. But there's a significant difference. The government boasts that they have spent 23 billion dollars in tax relief so far. If the Prime Minister now believes that there are $12 billion remaining, there is still a serious difference. The government's message is often that there is a context here: tax reliefs are to give growth, they are to provide jobs. When Prime Minister Bondevik last took over the government, there were 60 000 unemployed. Now it's 100,000. Furthermore, we often hear that tax relief should create more well-being. But reality isn't like that out there. Every day it was cut over a low shoe. It is cut in the care of the elderly, leisure clubs are laid down, it is cut in school, etc. This is not a message that harmonizes with what the Prime Minister is now saying.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-01.ana.ud1531e84	Firstly, most of what has been provided in tax reliefs has gone to business, to businesses. It has been to secure and create new jobs. Without these reliefs, the unemployment would probably have been higher. It's now starting to go down. The government's economic policy works. It's an optimism in business. Investments are increasing, employment is increasing. Secondly, a new tax reform must be lubricated with tax relief if it is to be fair. This was done by the Labour Party in its reform in 1992 — relatively as much as we have now proposed in 2004. The main point of the new tax reform, which unfortunately the Working Party does not follow up properly, is that those who have large capital income have to pay as much in taxes as those who have similar employee income. But the Workers' Party will keep a difference in marginal taxes, i.e. tempt rich people to cheat away from taxes. That is the consequence of the Labour Party's tax policy. I think it's unsocial.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-01.ana.ud1531e91	The President will allow four follow-up questions – first Ranveig Frøiland.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-01.ana.ud1531e94	The most important driving force for growth and well-being in the last 30 years is that women have come into work. Women are asking for welfare schemes such as kindergarten policies and school-time schemes — good municipal welfare schemes. The Prime Minister does not see that all the letters that come from the local politicians now, about different cuts in all these schemes, for example. can cause women to go home again and not be involved in creating growth and well-being? They're not asking for any easier in the top tax, but they're asking for welfare arrangements for their kids and their parents. That's what's going to happen now, that it's being cut into all of these welfare arrangements, because one is going to give large, unsocial taxes to those who are rich.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-01.ana.ud1531e99	That relationship is not correct. What we do with the top tax, we do to get a fair tax system, so that those with high capital incomes don't let go cheaper than those with employee incomes. It is clearly the Labour Party, at least in part, against it. They're for the dividend tax, but they don't want an equal marginal tax. Thus, some of the richest in Norway should be able to escape cheaper in terms of tax. That's what the Workers' Party is for. I fully agree that it is important for women to get out of work – those who want it. We want freedom of choice through kindergartens and cash support. The Labour Party wants equalization and not freedom of choice. If we look at the Norwegian welfare community today in relation to some decades back, there is no doubt that it has happened very positively. However, there are still problems in many municipalities in terms of welfare provision. That is why we are gradually strengthening the local economy. The increase in 2004, following the government's proposal, was the largest we've had in many years, and greater than most of the years under the Workers' Party. Next year it'll be pretty good too.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-01.ana.ud1531e109	Siv Jensen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-01.ana.ud1531e112	I will not rely on the false claims made by the Workers' Party about how dangerous tax havens are. I'm going to follow up on the perspective statement, because it's an innovation instead of the long-term program where you're trying to predict the future. The Prime Minister has many years of experience in dealing with long-term programmes in Stortinget. I could imagine that he reflected a little on past experience with long-term programmes, where, in a 50-year perspective, there is speculation or trace of what will happen to the nation. Is it not that if you look back and read old long-term programs, you can see that many of the claims about the need for tightening up, changes, etc. has often proved to be faulty, simply because events have occurred in the economy, perhaps somewhat surprising, that have actually given us new growth opportunities, new legs to stand on, which makes the a little bit of a fussy presentation that lies in the existing perspective message, perhaps not quite right?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-01.ana.ud1531e117	It is true that things have happened that have changed the economic situation in Norway in a positive way. Of course, it was mainly because of oil and gas found on our continental shelf. But it's very dangerous to gamble with the welfare of future generations and hope that something like that will happen again. That will not be done by this responsible government. That we have to do something with the pension scheme, we seem obvious, although perhaps the Progress Party does not see it. If one includes everyone in Norway, including those who die before retirement, we are currently working almost ten years less than when the pension system was introduced at the end of the 1960s – and we are pensioners for ten more years. Take one with only those who reach retirement age, the difference is now, I think, approx. seven years. This means that there are far fewer people paying in, and far more people taking out. It's causing the system to collapse. I want pensions to be guaranteed in the future. Then we have to do something with the system – and not gamble.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-01.ana.ud1531e124	Øystein Djupedal – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-01.ana.ud1531e127	The only natural explanation of the reasoning now given by the Prime Minister is that no additional tax relief should be granted, because then there will be less money to pay pensions in the future. A number of economic environments now highlight the welfare state as an important prerequisite for economic growth — most recently the World Economic Forum, which has highlighted the four Nordic countries among the six most competitive in the world. The reason for this is that the welfare state takes a large part of the cost of business – building infrastructure and providing people with opportunities that another system does not. What the government now chooses is a one-sided focus on tax relief as a tool for a competitive business and – as the government sees it – a better society. But this is obviously wrong. The welfare state is the key prerequisite both for a competitive business and for a well-functioning society. My questions to the Prime Minister are: Why does he think that all these outstanding economists who believe that this is a very important and crucial foundation are wrong? And why, on purely ideological grounds, it is considered that tax relief is better than, for example, tax relief. spending this money, NOK 16 billion, for pensions, for school, for kindergartens, for care for the elderly – to all that we really think is more important than taxation?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-01.ana.ud1531e136	Now I understand that SV does not think that the level of taxation, at least in 2004, is so terribly wrong, because they intend to keep it if they come into government. It has largely contributed to job security. It's an important welfare policy task. We've proven that we can combine tax laws with expanding well-being. This government has done so at a record time. But it's completely wrong to make it so that the government believes that tax relief is the only means of creating growth in society. Where did Djupedal get that? We focus more than ever on research and development. We have set up Innovation Norway, which is a coordination and strengthening of the instrumentation. We have a responsible economic policy, which means that the interest rate is record low, and the krone price has again become more competitive. This is a comprehensive policy for generating growth in Norway. Fortunately, therefore, we also have lower unemployment rates than most other countries, although it is still too high.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-01.ana.ud1531e141	Morten Lund – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-01.ana.ud1531e144	Today's government will probably be remembered as the tax haven and shopping administration. The SSB and the Bank of Norway have compared the economic development of the Bondevik I Government and of the Bondevik II Government. They have found that under the second government of Bondevik, the growth in household consumption has been almost 50 pst. higher than under Bondevik I. In the case of public consumption, there has been a reversal. Now the consumption of households under Bondevik II has increased by 18 pst, the public consumption by 9 pst. Included in the growth of public consumption are high costs of early retirement, disability and unemployment. The last one is called the Prime Minister's bet on well-being. The fact that people are pushed out of work, out of gainful activity, and that the public has to cover what people need to live, it's called the Prime Minister's bet on welfare. My question to the Prime Minister is: was the Bondevik I government entirely on earth when it came to economic policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-01.ana.ud1531e153	When the Co-operation Government took over, there were many things in the Norwegian economy that were about to go wrong. The government had to pursue a tight economic policy to correct this. Now it's going to go the right way. Employment is increasing – I hope Morten Lund is in favour of it – investment is increasing, optimism is increasing, the UN has four consecutive years, all the years this government has been in, called Norway the world's best country to live in. But it doesn't sound like that when we hear the representative Lund. However, many municipalities are struggling badly financially, so we are also aiming to gradually strengthen the local economy. We have a demographic development, with an increasing number of older people, which makes this necessary. The government has said that we are continuing the agreement on an inclusive working life, just to counteract what Lund said, namely that workers feel pressured out of work. We also want to include people with disabilities and others who may have difficulties getting into the workplace. And there's starting to be concrete results there as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-01.ana.ud1531e162	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-01.ana.ud1531e165	I would like to ask the Prime Minister a question about the almost forgotten conflict in the world of work, between the lifts and the lifts, which is now beginning to affect the elderly and the disabled. There are still reports that older people who cannot walk stairs — the same applies, of course, to wheelchair users — have major problems in buildings where the lift is standing. This is a locked conflict, which also leads to increasing human problems. I would like to know how the government evaluates this. Here, there is a locked conflict and an active trade union that cynically exploits its monopoly and tries to preserve its monopoly by actively preventing competition in this sector – which we are accustomed to in other areas. If the effects are not as economic for the state as when one intervenes in conflicts, then there are many elderly and disabled people who are beginning to have significant problems. What is the Government's view on this conflict?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-01.ana.ud1531e173	We have recorded that this conflict is locked and has gone over several months now. Those who are going to follow the situation do. I will not here and now notify forced arbitration, because it is as well known the criteria for when a government believes that the time had to come for that to happen. But we are aware that there is a monopoly situation here. There's a lot of this there might be reason to look into when this conflict is hopefully over. It is clear that, to the extent that this starts to affect people’s health, for example, there is reason to consider whether to do something — and in what case — to do something. But we have general social criteria for conflict resolution and for the possible use of forced arbitration. It would be wrong for the Prime Minister over the pulpit to advertise something like that. But I can assure you that those who are going to follow up on the consequences of the conflict do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-01.ana.ud1531e178	I thank the Prime Minister for what I will choose to call a semi-positive answer, by saying that the Government will then at least look at the situation and evaluate it very carefully. We are well aware that in other situations where there has been no fulfilment of the criteria imposed by the international conventions, among other things. in the case of the pedestal, however, the Government has been forced to pay because of financial deferrals of government income, but there has therefore been no danger to life and health. In this conflict, there is no danger to life and health either, but for a large number of people around the elderly institutions, the situation is – I do not know the whole situation in our hospitals – that they are starting to decrease the quality of life, and that must mean that the health problem is inside the picture. We can't just passively look at a situation that goes beyond the quality of life of older people. So I hope the Government actively now will evaluate the situation more in-depth and obtain the necessary reports on the situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-01.ana.ud1531e183	So let's do that. And we have the supervisory bodies that follow the consequences of a strike, and they report to the responsible department. I'm going to make sure again that one here is up to date and really evaluates the consequences that are now gradually arising from a very long, regrettable conflict.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-01.ana.ud1531e188	There will be two follow-up questions – Siv Jensen.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-01.ana.ud1531e191	In fact, I am not completely reassured when the Prime Minister repeats that the conflict is being closely followed. So you've been doing that for months now. This is primarily about a monopolistic group. No one else has the opportunity, without the necessary competence, to enter this market. And then it becomes very unfortunate when individual groups can actually over time help paralyze parts of society in this way. It is clear that neither the Prime Minister nor I will find it very problematic that the lift is standing, we all have good exercise, even though the Prime Minister is going up – how much is it – 20 floors before he is at work. But it's going to be a problem when we get reports that older and disabled people actually don't get out because the lifts are standing. We saw a report on TV yesterday about wheelchair users who are forced to sit in because they have no exits other than via a lift. And then, in fact, the situation is starting to get much more serious. That is why I would ask the Prime Minister to act quite quickly.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-01.ana.ud1531e196	Yes, of course, I am aware that the conflict first creates irritation for many of us. There are many of us who can and must live with – and I have gone my 16 floors up to the office today as well – but I am aware that for others this is becoming a significant problem. I can assure you that we are not just following this passively, we are of course constantly assessing the situation. But we also have to act in such a way that we do not conflict with legislation, international rules and the ILO. Within that framework, a responsible government must work. But I can assure you that we too find this problematic. I agree with Siv Jensen, I think the monopoly situation is something we should put the search light on. And as far as I know, the strikers also have their own company, which is working during this strike period. There might be a lot to look at here.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-01.ana.ud1531e203	Karin Andersen – to the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-01.ana.ud1531e206	It's usually terribly bad when the disabled and the elderly are hit by a strike. However, the reason is that we have greedy employers who do not want Norwegian pay and working conditions to apply in Norway. That is the issue, not – as the Prime Minister says – of a monopoly situation. The Prime Minister and the Government could have contributed to the fact that Norwegian workers had been much more confident that they had a salary to live on, and contributed to employment in the future that does not take good care of people. That is why I want to challenge the Prime Minister in the area of social dumping. There are many suggestions – such as: SV has promoted – which would have ensured much better against social dumping than what the Government wants to participate in. Why is it not quite clear to the Government that Norwegian wage and working conditions will apply in Norway, that social dumping should not be allowed? Why does the Government not want to ensure all the measures necessary for this to become a reality? Then such strikes will be unnecessary in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-01.ana.ud1531e215	With regard to the causes of the conflict among the lift installers, there may be a range of views on this. I will not take sides for the employee or for the employer in this conflict. At least a Prime Minister should not do that. Of course, I generally agree that all the Nordics should have a wage to live off, and those who do not have a gainful job should have other arrangements that enable them to live off their economy. We are as opposed to social dumping as the representative Karin Andersen is. We have intended to secure ourselves against this in connection with the enlargement of the EEA area, which came with the EU enlargement. Of course, we need to evaluate whether we think this works well enough, or whether we experience examples of social dumping. Then we will respond.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-01.ana.ud1531e224	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-01.ana.ud1531e227	I would like to ask the Prime Minister a question. The leader of the Christian People's Party, Dagfinn Høybråten, has been on the mission in Rogaland. There he said in a speech to Hå and Time the locals of the Christian People's Party last week the following: «Today there is a formidable attack on our Christian cultural heritage. Strong forces are working to declare Norwegian society value-neutral’ and gender-neutral. ‘They are behind fine words about anti-discrimination and tolerance.’ ‘What they are really doing is attacking a thousand-year cultural heritage – the roots of our modern society.’ Does the Prime Minister agree that there is ‘a formidable attack’ on our Christian cultural heritage?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-01.ana.ud1531e244	There is no doubt that there are those who go to such an attack. I think the Human-Ethical League is most typical in that way, and they accept this. They have a different view of life and do not want the Christian cultural heritage to be laid down – as it is – in our constitution, in our kindergarten law and in our training law. They have expressed this clearly for several days now, and then they have to resist being contradicted, as among other things. The turnaround's done. The starting point for that debate is the discussion on the purpose paragraph of the Kindergarten Act. It was adopted by the Stortinget many years ago and has worked well in my view. Wise pediatric educators are able to combine the dissemination of Christian values — among other things. is held in kindergartens during these Christmas seasons – by showing respect for those who have a different view of life and culture. The government therefore sees no need to change this purpose paragraph. Obviously, there are others who do. The Human-Ethical Association wants the reference to our Christian cultural heritage to be removed. I think that is clearly contrary to what a large majority of the people believe. For example, we have 86 pst. of the Norwegian people in the Norwegian Church, and some others are in other Christian religious communities. I'm taking these people seriously. I think they mean something by that. In that case, a minority should not rule over a majority. But in a democracy, the majority must protect and take into account minorities. I believe that is the case today, both in school and in kindergarten. But those who attack us to have this anchoring in our Christian cultural heritage must resist, as the Højbråten has done.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-01.ana.ud1531e255	I think it is quite remarkable that the Prime Minister fully supports the language used by the Højbråten. We who are members of the state church, who have joined our children's shoes in Sunday school, who have worn out a lot of flanellographs, but who nevertheless believe that church and state should be separated – which also the Christian People's Party believes, and the Church's own selection wants a different connection between church and state – think it's dull language when Hojbråten says that if you go further on this track, it's value-neutral. Sweden has closed its system. Is Sweden a value-neutral society? The United Nations has said that the way in which the CRL profession in Norway is designed is contrary to human rights. Is the U.N. neutral? I want the Prime Minister's clarification of this very point. Is it really the case that we who want Norway to become more like other countries and separate church and state – we are the only country in Europe with a state religion – have no value?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-01.ana.ud1531e264	The answer to that is no. Kristin Halvorsen is now drawing in the church-state debate. There is a slightly different debate, although there may be links. It's not right to say that the Christian People's Party is going in to separate state and church, as Kristin Halvorsen, I think, said. We have said that we want a new system, that is. a greater freedom for the Norwegian Church, but not a division. But I respect that SV does that, and there can also be good reasons for such a position. It does not necessarily mean that one removes any reference to our Christian cultural heritage in our legislation, even if one should find out that one will separate state and church. The Christian cultural heritage stands strongly in the Norwegian people, to whom Kristin Halvorsen himself is an example, who has entered his children's shoes in Sunday school. None of us have been harmed, on the contrary.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-01.ana.ud1531e273	I don't know! [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-01.ana.ud1531e280	I am also aware that it may be those who stand for values different from those of Christians. That doesn't mean they're value neutral, but they're fighting for other values. There is no doubt that the Human-Ethical League is being attacked by our Christian cultural heritage. With regard to the CRL subject, there is a rather different debate. But I don't get time to answer that now.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-01.ana.ud1531e287	No, it gets the Prime Minister to take the next round, because now Rolf Reikvam has asked questions about follow-up – and it probably goes in the same direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-01.ana.ud1531e290	Maybe I can then have the opportunity to answer the last question.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-01.ana.ud1531e295	There will be follow-up questions – Rolf Rikvam.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-01.ana.ud1531e298	The Prime Minister will have to try to answer the question that I am asking. The concept of the Christian cultural heritage has now been used repeatedly by the Prime Minister without trying to define what he is putting into it. I assume that the Christian cultural heritage must be the sum of what the Norwegian Church has stood for, and what the Christian organizations have stood for, up through history. And that's very strange, so does the Prime Minister. I assume that he does not define the Christian cultural heritage in such a way that it is the sum of what the Church has stood for. There must be another way to define the Christian cultural heritage, and I think the Prime Minister should try it out, because the Christian cultural heritage and Christian values cannot be the same. Christian values today are different from the Christian cultural heritage. That's why it's a solid cover when the prime minister repeatedly refers to the "Christian cultural heritage" without trying to define what's in it. At least it can have nothing to do with purpose paragraphs in primary school or kindergarten. My challenge is that the Prime Minister defines what is contained in the concept of “Christian cultural heritage” and explains to us the relationship between this and any purpose paragraphs.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-01.ana.ud1531e307	The subject-matter paragraph of the current Children's Court Act, which the Government sees no reason to change, reads: «The garden shall help to give a mission in accordance with Christian fundamental values.» I think that is a good wording. The framework plan for kindergarten activities provides more detailed information on how a person believes that kindergarten staff should practice this. Here it has been said some about the Christian basic values, exemplified to ethical basic values, and we find them to a large extent, among other things. in the Ten Commandments. Many of them are joint owners, including those who do not have a Christian basic vision. And then I think about the last seven, that's the middle class. Furthermore, the framework plan says that it is natural to mark the Christian cultural heritage – then I come into it – by marking religious traditions and festivals, as it is. are carried out in kindergartens during these days. I think the vast majority of Norwegian people want it. So I don't think Rikvam needs to make this more problematic than it is. This is defined in the Kindergarten Act and in the framework plan for kindergartens.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-01.ana.ud1531e319	Carl. I. Hagen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-01.ana.ud1531e323	I am pleased with the views that the Prime Minister is now raising, and that he is doing so. I also mainly share the views on what the Højbråten has said, but I might have spoken in a slightly more careful and less bastant way. [[Laughter]] The background is, as the Prime Minister rightly says, among other things. the pediatric function paragraph. There I'm also glad that we have the same position as the Government. But in the wake of this debate, a new theme has emerged, namely that SV will remove the legal right of the Church to make marriages. I suppose no one is surprised, but when the Left Government Party so strongly defends that the Church should be deprived of the right to marry, in order to make it easier to equalize heterophilic and homosexual marriages, as they wish, I am quite surprised. I would like to ask the Prime Minister, what is the Government's view of the right of marriage? Would it be relevant for the Government to support a desire to deprive the Church of the legal rights of marriage?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-01.ana.ud1531e332	No, the government has no plans. That left has meant this for a long time, is no sensation. They probably also meant that before they joined the government. It hasn't changed the government's position, and it's not going to. Now this is an interesting debate. There are also many within the Norwegian Church who believe that it would have been reasonable that the very right of marriage was not for the Church and other religious communities, but that one after the wedding could have a church blessing. I myself am of those who believe that today's system works well. A lot of people want it. I see no need to change it. I would like to quote Bishop Gunnar Stålsett, as in today's newspaper says: “The beautiful setting around a church wedding is a good one that must not be taken away from people.” The Prime Minister for his part agrees. It is also interesting that an active SV, the Secretary General of the Church's Bymition, Helen Bjørnøy, expresses similar views in the newspaper Our Country today. So this has broad support.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-01.ana.ud1531e346	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-01.ana.ud1531e349	I also have a question for the Prime Minister. The Christian People's Party opposed the health reform, not least because the Christian People's Party believed that the reform would lead to significant centralisation. To counteract centralisation, the government chose Stoltenberg to organise state ownership of hospitals through five health regions. It is important that people can feel as close as possible to those who rule. The Health Minister has flagged one mainly after he was appointed, namely that he sees it as important to remove the boundaries between Health East and Health South. The Minister of Health seems to want a health region consisting of over half of the country's population, with ten of its counties, ranging from Engerdal to Arendal. Kjell Magne Bondevik was concerned about the centralization of power when the reform was adopted. Today, Kjell Magne Bondevik heads a government where the Minister of Health obviously plans a gigantic health region for the whole of South Norway. Will the Prime Minister intervene and stop these plans?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-01.ana.ud1531e360	Firstly, the Minister of Health will answer a question in the ordinary Question Time today from Bjarne Håkon Hanssen on this very point, but I can prejudge it when it also comes in the spontaneous Question Time. It's true that my party and I were opposed to the reform. I believe that the regional level should still have managed the hospitals. I actually see that it's those who are beginning to discuss this again, among other things. in the context of a different division of regions. But we have to get back to that. We manage the adopted reform as best we can. An investigation has been carried out on the coordination of hospitals in the metropolitan area. Some of the problem is that there is a distinction between Health South and Health East across the capital – as far as I know between Ullevål and the Rikshospital, if I am not mistaken. It may have created some coordination problems, which are the starting point of this investigation. One of the options is to bring together Health South and Health East, but there are also other alternatives, including: contractual cooperation models. The government has not concluded. We seem obliged to deal with an investigation that has come about due to problems, especially in the capital area, but the government has not concluded that the two health regions mentioned are merged.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-01.ana.ud1531e371	I thank you for your answer. The Minister of Health has said that there is a Berlin Wall going through Oslo. I have to say that I think is a strange language usage. It is at least an insult to those who have once experienced the consequences of the Berlin Wall, to get described cooperation problems between the hospitals in Oslo as similar to what the people in Berlin experienced. There is a significant difference between the situation in Berlin and the situation between Health East and Health South, namely that Health East and Health South have a common boss: the Minister of Health. So if it's the way the Minister of Health thinks there's bad cooperation in Oslo, the Minister of Health gets to take control. Is it so that the Minister of Health, unlike in the past, when he was Minister of Industry and known as the Minister without tools in the toolbox, is becoming the Minister of Health who has a packed toolbox, but who refuses to use the tool that is in the register?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-01.ana.ud1531e380	No, of course he doesn't. That is why this has been investigated, and therefore there have been various proposals for strengthening coordination in the capital area – I hope Bjarne Håkon Hanssen also acknowledges the need for better coordination when the division crosses the capital. But that doesn't mean that one necessarily has to merge these two regions. This has not been the position of the Government, because we need to assess this investigation and how we can strengthen coordination in the best possible way. There are tools, the toolbox is there, and the Government will use it. Which tools we want to use, we're going to decide in the near future.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-01.ana.ud1531e385	There will be three follow-up questions – first Asmund Kristoffersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-01.ana.ud1531e388	After the answer given here, there are still two aspects that amaze me and the Workers' Party. Firstly, the government is now tumbling with one of the carriers in the Norwegian health care system, the regional division that ensures a certain proximity between the population and hospitals. Secondly, we who do not belong in the government corridors have had to do a detective's work to figure out what's actually going on. The division of Norway into health regions has both a major principle and a national significance, so the question of changing should have been both open and inclusive from the outset in relation to hospitals themselves, in relation to the political environment of the Stortinget and in relation to municipalities and counties. Then my question becomes: is the Prime Minister satisfied that the Government has not taken the interested parties into account in the process that should have been open before the Government takes its decision?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-01.ana.ud1531e399	I am not aware that this should be a very closed process. Firstly, the Government of the State budget for 2005, which is now under consideration, has provided a briefing on the fact that there is an ongoing investigation into better coordination of specialist health services in the capital area, and that we aim to present our assessments in the context of the revised national budget. So this won't be a closed process. The size gets involved in it, precisely because I agree that it is a big and important question. Secondly, four hearings have actually been held with different actors on this issue, so it is not that a person wants to keep the outsiders out — on the contrary, they are drawn to hearings. So I find it a little difficult to understand that Kristoffersen has the impression that this is a very closed process – it's explained in the state budget, we've said that we're going to review it and come back to the Storting in the revised national budget, and we've held hearings. If there's more transparency Kristoffersen is calling for, we're going to be happy to contribute to it. So we haven't said... excuse me, is it time?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-01.ana.ud1531e406	Yes. The President makes it clear that you only have 1 minute to answer the follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-01.ana.ud1531e410	Olav Gunnar Ballo – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-01.ana.ud1531e413	You can agree with the Prime Minister that there has been a great deal of openness on this matter. The Minister of Health has been so open that he has hardly been misunderstood. He wants one health region, combined by Health East and Health South. And it's good to hear that the Prime Minister in many ways reverses these statements through what he is now saying. But if you look at the total economy of health businesses, this would be a place between 30 billion and 40 billion dollars, which would be one new health region, while the other half would be roughly divided into four others. So you get an imbalance here between the health regions that are going to be significant. And we know that in all the parties there is now a debate on what should be the future structure of possible regions, where the issue of health will also be central: should it be a responsibility – either administrative or political – in the new regions? Does the Prime Minister see that if there are now such significant leadership that half of Norway is in such a region, then what will be the situation in other areas in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-01.ana.ud1531e422	First of all, I must say that we have not taken a stand for a merger of Health South and Health East, so that is quite clear. It shall be assessed by the Government, in which the Stortinget shall be involved through the revised national budget. It is not without saying that a health region is taking the lead in other regions. In fact, we already have a number of different services that are organised through different regions in Norway, and there are different sizes of them. What I hope, however, is that the representatives of big business are also moving in, is that there is a need for better coordination in the capital area. Hospitals are closely intertwined and separated into two health regions. I am not saying that the solution is to merge the two regions, because there have been various proposals on how to improve that coordination, but I hope that the Stortinget will also address the matter with a desire to improve the situation and coordination in the Oslo area.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-01.ana.ud1531e429	Ola D. Lukewarm – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-01.ana.ud1531e432	One of the aims of the health reform was precisely to improve coordination, better interaction and better cooperation. And I fully agree that there is an absolute need for coordination and coordination in the capital area. However, it must be a loss — a prestigious loss as well — for the health reform that the health minister, who is now the health business chief, is unable to instruct these hospitals to improve coordination and interaction. Instead, the Health Minister goes out clearly and says he wants to merge these hospitals, and he wants to make one of the largest hospitals in Northern Europe in small Norway. This is giant tomany. Such a unit will cause greater cooperation and interaction problems than it is today, I believe. It is clear that the top competence of specialist health services needs to be coordinated. It's the task of the Minister of Health and the Government, and here you've lost. It's a lack of toolbox, but in this context, I guess you can talk about the lack of medical case.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-01.ana.ud1531e437	I don't think it's going to be any better if the checkout gets a new name. It is precisely in order to obtain the tools the Minister for Health wants you to have received this investigation, that different proposals have been made for coordination here. Then you have a medicine case or toolbox. So the government, and then the government, makes an opinion about what tools we're going to use here. We have, as I said, not taken a position on whether it is going to be such a large health region, but we all think we should recognise that there is a need for better coordination in the Oslo area. Health reform was such that businesses have gained considerable freedom. That's what the bulk of the population wanted. In some general questions, the Minister of Health may intervene — it is also relatively clear what questions it will be. Now we're getting the basis we need to decide how we can get better coordination in Oslo. That's our starting point. The starting point is not gigantomania.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-01.ana.ud1531e446	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-01.ana.ud1531e449	I also have a question for the Prime Minister. The Prime Minister is the Prime Representative of the Christian People's Party in the Government. The Christian People's Party says no to Norwegian membership of the EU, and the new leader of the Christian People's Party has emphatically confirmed it. The government has now put forward a question of joining the EU military battlegroups. When people said no to Norwegian EU membership in 1994, it was for many reasons. However, the opposition to participating in EU defence and military cooperation was one of the main reasons, like economic and monetary union. Steps to participate in such cooperation can therefore easily be seen as a lack of respect for the refusal of EU membership that people actually expressed in 1994. How does the Prime Minister, like the Christian People's Party member of the Government, view the question of whether this could be a lack of respect for what the populace said in 1994?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-01.ana.ud1531e460	I do not agree that being able to participate in a Nordic EU battlegroup is in conflict with the population population. We have developed many cooperation mechanisms with the EU, not least the EEA Agreement, and there is no reason to believe that the population population is against it. We have entered into the Schengen cooperation. We are involved in cooperation within the ESDP, i.e. general EU security, foreign and defence cooperation. As far as the battlegroups are concerned, on Friday, as far as I know, the Stortinget will have an opportunity to discuss it in more detail. I think it makes sense, all in all. Interestingly, we have Nordic cooperation through this – two countries that are in the EU, but not in NATO, and one country that is in NATO, but not in the EU. What is crucial is for Norway to decide for itself whether to participate in an operation into which such a battlegroup could possibly be deployed. We have control over it, and we are sure that this is not contrary to the Constitution. Another thing that I think is interesting is that the UN is actually very concerned about these groups. The UN Secretary-General, Kofi Annan, was in Ireland a few weeks ago and spoke warmly for this, as the United Nations increasingly needs such forces that, at relatively short notice, can operate in an operation to which they are otherwise unable to recruit, for example. in Africa. I think we can join in when we have the right of destination. That we do it together with two other Nordic countries that think foreign policy in many ways like us, and that we can do it in service for the UN – for example. in Africa – I think that is positive.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-01.ana.ud1531e471	Anyone who has read the EU's decisions on this will know that it is far more than assisting the UN in crisis situations. This is about building military units that can be deployed almost anywhere in the world on very short notice. The EEA Agreement was adopted before people said no to EU membership, and we have had to take it into account many times and have had to adapt. This case is outstanding precisely because here we do not need to adapt to the EEA Agreement, but have a completely open decision – whether or not we want to participate from Norway. I understand that Denmark has no intention of participating in these military struggles. What is the problem that we could have faced in the same situation as Denmark and made the same assessments, instead of going into a decision that casts doubt on the Christian People's Party and the government's relationship and respect for the people's no in the referendum?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-01.ana.ud1531e480	There is no reason to doubt either the no of the Christian People's Party to EU membership or the no of the people. It's being respected. But the people's no to EU membership is not a no to cooperation with the EU. I've never seen it that way. I have not seen the Senter party that way either. This is a cooperation with the EU that we think can make sense. We are aware that these battle groups will not necessarily only be used for UN operations, but may also be used for UN operations. Secretary-General Kofi Annan has therefore underlined the value of having such groups. I think we should focus on that, we who focus on the UN and multilateral cooperation. Interestingly, in this case, it's going to be a Nordic group, so we're going to decide whether or not we're going to participate in a current operation. An agreement shall be concluded between the three Nordic countries concerned.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-01.ana.ud1531e495	There will be two follow-up questions – first Åslauga Haga.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-01.ana.ud1531e498	The government is talking about a Nordic effort force, a Nordic combat force. These are the EU military combat groups we are talking about. The government's talking about a veto right, that we should be able to decide. We know it's about military units that are going to congregate over time. There's every reason to fear that this veto right is going to be just as hollow as the veto right in the EEA. In any case, this boils down to decisions on the use of the combat teams being taken by the Council of the European Union. We will ask the Prime Minister to confirm that it is the Council of the European Union that will take the final decision on the use of the fighting groups.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-01.ana.ud1531e505	As far as I know – this agency is not yet complete – the Council of the European Union decides whether to enter into a peace operation. However, it is the individual participating countries in the group currently in readiness — for it must be a rotational mechanism for which groups are to be ready at all times — who decide whether or not they themselves will be present. That veto right depends on Norway. I have not registered that Finland and Sweden disagree, and that is in case we sign an agreement on this. And, of course, the EU must also be in agreement with that right. So I'm going to insist: we're not going into a battlegroup if we don't have the authority to participate in a particular operation. That's a clear assumption. The Minister of Defence explained this yesterday in Stortinget, and this will give the Stortinget an opportunity to discuss on Friday. Norway is a peace nation, and these are forces to be used for peacekeeping purposes.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-01.ana.ud1531e514	Kettil Bjørklund – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-01.ana.ud1531e517	The Minister of Defence assured in his statement on this matter yesterday that: ‘Norway will retain full national decision-making authority in relation to the operations in which Norwegian forces are to participate’. Furthermore, ‘each country’s decision-making procedure will be used as a basis for participation.’ This must mean that if the strength proposed by the Government for Norway to participate in an operation is to be dealt with in the Storting before it is put into service, i.e. within a few days of its decision to enter into service. Does the Prime Minister think that a question of the relationship with the Basic Law § 25, on the release of strength, is only relevant at the time when these forces are to be deployed, and not as a fundamental question related to registration and training and standing readiness?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-01.ana.ud1531e531	The Ministry of Foreign Affairs' judicial department, which has good competence in this matter, has assessed this issue in relation to the Constitution and believes that we are clearly within it. There are both questions about being able to be part of such a group in general – as I said, it is a rotation of the forces that are at all times relevant to use – and the participation in a particular, decided operation, where we have the right to participate. We believe that this is in line with the Constitution in both of these aspects. However, this will give the Stortingen more opportunity to discuss, both on Friday and for a long time in the future, because these groups should not actually be ready before 1 January 2008. So it's over three more years, so it'll be time to discuss these aspects of the case as well. It will not only be the last ten days that this is being debated, it will be a long time debate before it is decided which group might be included in a particular operation. We operate with two quite like-minded countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-01.ana.ud1531e536	Let's move on to the last main question. The President will see how many additional questions there will be within the specific period of the spontaneous Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-01.ana.ud1531e541	My question goes to the Minister of Oil and Energy. The gap between supply and demand for power in the Norwegian and Nordic markets is increasing. As a result, the electricity price has stabilised at a significantly higher level than in the past and security of supply is severely impaired. If we had got two dry harvest months this year, which we had two years ago, it would probably have collapsed. Fortunately, now we see that Natural Power is planning to use one of its gas power plant concessions, while the other two concessions that are out are currently unused. The council said at a conference in Haugesund in August that she would have close contact with the companies and listen to their wishes. How has this contact been so far? What is the company’s desire to get started? And what action will the Government take to make progress in the other two gas power stations that have concession?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-01.ana.ud1531e552	First of all, I would like to say that the situation in the power market in the autumn has been relatively stable. The spot price of electricity has been about 25 øre per. kWh, which has also contributed to the stability of the price offered to end-users with standard variable contracts. It is also true that the composition of supply and demand in terms of power in the Nordic region has contributed to a relatively low level of Norwegian hydropower production and net imports of power into Norway. I don't think there's any reason to worry about Norway importing power, especially in periods of low rainfall. Had the situation been such that we had not had the opportunity to import power and had built up power on a Nordic basis, I believe that the situation had been such that there could have been much higher electricity prices in Norway. I also want to add that the government has done relatively much to focus on what we can do to secure the energy supply in the years to come. It's also a fact that we have to shift and not focus unilaterally on hydropower. 99 pst. electricity comes from hydropower, which is why it is very important to focus on other types of measures. The government has done a lot. We have submitted a proposal under the new agreement with Enova to help us achieve a new, environmentally friendly energy production and saving equivalent to 12 TWh by the end of 2010. I have also said that gas power is essential in this respect, in view of being involved and helping to manage to improve the power balance in Norway. There's no problem. We have had a situation in which the government has kept the three concessions given by the Stoltenberg government firm. In addition, we have said that when it comes to the construction of new gas power plants, we have a policy in that area. I have also said that I am listening to the signals that have come. I know that Naturkraft has plans to realize its project on Kårstø. At Kollsnes, they said they're not going to realize it. In addition to that, I have not received any further information.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-01.ana.ud1531e563	I thank the Council of State for the answer. In the summer Statoil launched its plans to build an energy plant on Mongstad, where the power is mainly to be used on the base, and a work on the Tjeldbergodden, where the power is also to be used to a large extent in its own industrial processes. Both of these projects will improve access to power, as without building them you have to harness the power of the ordinary system, which already has far too little. I do not, of course, expect the Council of State to conduct concession proceedings from the Parliamentary Chair, but I would nevertheless like to ask what kind of time it is possible to consider before any concessions can be made to them, and at the same time ask the Council of State to ensure that these projects are not subject to more stringent emission requirements than others in the EEA area, in line with the decision of the European Parliament of 9 March 2000, which is still in force.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-01.ana.ud1531e572	I think it is important to stress this government's attitude to gas power plants. As I said, you got a concession on three applications. It's solid. With regard to the construction of gas power plants in addition to this, the Government has said that it is positive to grant concession to new gas power plants, but then with CO2 management until a system of tradable allowances has entered into force. The representative of Vaksdal knows very well that there is a proposal from the Government to introduce a temporary allowance system until the entry into force of the Kyoto Agreement in 2008, and there is also the Government's proposal that gas power plants should be covered by this temporary allowance system. The allowance law includes, inter alia: until the three gas power stations that have been granted a concession will be subject to allowances if they are built before 2008, and this will also happen in the case of further applications.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-01.ana.ud1531e583	The time for the oral question procedure is running out, and we're going over to the ordinary question procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-01.ana.ud1531e589	There will be some changes to the list of questions set out, and the President will refer in this context to the overview distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Questions 6 and 7 from the representatives of Lena Jensen and Arne Sortevik, respectively, to the Minister for Education and Research, must be postponed to the next Question Time when the Council of State has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-01.ana.ud1531e601	I have the following questions for the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs: ‘Start-up loans are a scheme to help households who have problems establishing themselves in owner-occupied dwellings. Municipalities may draw up their own guidelines on how to operate the start-up loan scheme, provided that these meet the objectives of the scheme. Does the Council of State consider that it is in line with the objective if local authorities impose such high income requirements that persons living on temporary disability benefits, rehabilitation benefits or occupational retirement provision are not granted a start-up loan?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-01.ana.ud1531e610	The purpose of the start-up loan is to contribute to enabling households with housing problems to establish themselves and to remain in the beds and good housing. The start-up loan has been tested and can be granted to, inter alia: young people in the establishment phase, families with children, lone dependants, disabled persons, refugees, persons with a residence permit on a humanitarian basis and other economically disadvantaged households. The start-up loan scheme provides for co-financing, where the private market provides basic finance and the municipalities top finance. The level of co-financing is recommended on the basis of the principle that its more disadvantaged the borrower is, the greater the share of the loan is given as a government start-up loan. Initial loans may also be provided in combination with housing allowances for particularly disadvantaged households. Municipalities have a high degree of freedom to design the start-up loan legislation because the challenges in municipalities are very different. The guidelines of the municipalities must fulfil the objectives and main intentions of the scheme, as set out in: regulations laid down by the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs and the Start-up Loan Guidelines of the Husbank. Municipal guidelines are to be sent to the House Bank for information. The House Bank has a special responsibility to guide the municipalities so that the scheme takes them with the greatest needs. It is up to each municipality to assess whether the applicant will receive a loan and, where appropriate, how much the loan will be. The amount of the loan will depend on the ability to pay and any other liabilities of the applicant. It is a prerequisite that the applicant can manage to manage the housing costs over time and continue to have the necessary means of living back. Applicants who have temporary disability benefits, rehabilitation benefits or occupational rehabilitation as a source of income may have difficulties in operating housing costs over time, because income is temporary and low, and because the level of future income is uncertain. This would involve a significant risk for the applicant to purchase a dwelling and raise large loans at this life phase, and the municipality could be at risk of loan losses. This risk could be reduced by combining loans with housing grants to vulnerable groups. Nevertheless, municipalities can take greater risks by being able to allocate funds to a loss fund. Per. By 31 December 2003, municipalities had committed 274 million. In the case of a loss fund. Due to high loss reserves in many municipalities and low losses, the Government of the State budget proposes that only municipalities with very low loss funds can make use of funds for this purpose in 2005. For households with income so low that they cannot operate the loan, schemes such as housing grants and/or housing aid should be considered in order to reduce the debt burden. The conclusion is that there is a need to make sure that people don't take up loans if they don't have control. It can provide municipalities with an overall assessment combining housing support and housing grants to see how they will be able to bear this type of expenditure in the future. But it has to be up to the municipalities to assess the framework for opening up loans to individual groups.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-01.ana.ud1531e630	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It is clear that the Council of State considers this to be in line with the intention that the start-up loan should fulfill. The Workers' Party does not consider that to be correct. I have an example of a young person who is temporarily unsecured, and the diagnosis allows him to be permanently disapproved. But he wants to get to work, he doesn't want permanent disability pension. He needs a dwelling, but now he has to choose. Either he must choose permanent disability benefits, and thus the possibility of starting a loan and a dwelling, or no dwelling and still the possibility to get into work. Then I have to ask the Council of State: is this a policy to get more people to work and less on disability?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-01.ana.ud1531e639	So my answer was that there has to be an individual approach in terms of who can get a loan. We have to be sure that people are not being put in debt, with a debt arrangement at a later stage as a result of it, which makes it even more difficult for them to live in a dwelling. This can be achieved by combining different measures. The individual approach implies, of course, the need to assess whether the individual is in a situation in which he/she will in future have income over time to serve the costs associated with a loan. It is that a temporary disability benefit will essentially mean that you do not get into work, you will later be able to get permanent disability benefit, or you will be able to continue your disability benefit. This means that for people who have disability benefits it should be possible to get a start-up loan because we want some kind of income insurance. But it is the municipalities that have to decide, it has to be an individual approach, you have to know in advance what the debt is, and you have to be able to look at other means of housing at the same time. That's one of the reasons why we're engaged in strengthening the housing social work in the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-01.ana.ud1531e646	Once again, I thank the Council of State for the answer. My example is from the Municipality of Oslo and the housing office there. They have given a very clear message: if you do not have a fixed and long-term income, you do not get an initial loan. If you have a rehabilitation allowance, a temporary disability pension and an occupational rehabilitation allowance, you have a non-permanent and permanent income, so the municipality of Oslo clearly informs you that it is impossible to get a start-up loan. Then I have to ask: is it Oslo Municipality that has misunderstood, has too strict rules and does not follow the purpose given, so that these people can have the opportunity to get a start loan and also get a home without having to be disqualified?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-01.ana.ud1531e655	The majority have agreed that the municipalities should bear the risk of loss. We have ensured that the risk of loss is relieved, by making part of the housing allowance available for loss provisions. However, it is clear that those responsible for covering the losses and taking the greatest risk of the losses must also be those who make the legislation and make the individual assessment. It is within the scheme to make an individual assessment of whether one has permanent income or whether one is likely to have a permanent income in the future. The main problem with the eye’s approach – to say that everyone should be able to get a start-up loan – is not only that municipalities can lose money in the future, but also that more people end up in a debt situation because they cannot operate their mortgages, perhaps under a debt regime and in the next run their poverty situation worsens. We need to look at the combination of measures around individuals to ensure that they have a permanent connection to the housing market.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-01.ana.ud1531e666	I will be allowed to ask the following questions to the Minister for Employment and Social Affairs: ‘A young female student is born with a rare disability, dyslexia, which causes her to lack one leg. She uses prosthesis, but doesn't cover the costs of aesthetic prosthesis that have longer durability and that doesn't look ugly. The protest she gets covered destroys clothes, stockings and shoes and gives extra expenses. The woman has been told that if she is to receive an aesthetic prosthetic prosthesis, she must go to a psychiatrist in order to detect mental distress caused by the poor prosthesis. Is this the proper practice of the legislation?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-01.ana.ud1531e675	Social security covers the costs of obtaining, maintaining and renewing necessary and appropriate orthopaedic aids. This provision has been practised in such a way that there has been no additional cost of obtaining aid that is significantly more expensive than usual. An aesthetic prosthesis will usually be. Only aesthetic facial prostheses have been fully covered. The Rikstrøgdeverket has practised the provisions in such a way that in only a few cases it has been considered necessary to cover the costs of an aesthetic arm or leg prosthesis. There has been a demand that there be a certificate from a specialist in psychiatry. I understand that this can be felt unnecessary and also painful for some. I have therefore asked the Swedish National Works Agency to review and assess whether this is a sensible practice. I will also have an overall assessment/review of problems related to aesthetic prostheses. Any increased use of such prostheses would entail increased costs and would therefore need to be seen in the context of the budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-01.ana.ud1531e686	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I have to say that it was a very positive answer that you now want to take that review. I hope that in the future we will not see situations like that that we saw at the Saturday Revy on November 13th this year, this student and the problems she has with her old prosthesis, and that you can get a good outcome from this case. The problem that has arisen is a very important issue. It's about dealing with her disability without really having to be stigmatized; I was saying it was being placed within the psychiatry and had to go to the psychiatrists. So I thank the Council of State for the answer. I don't know if the Council of State can say anything more about whether there is an opportunity to perhaps take up the budget bit already revised, if you get this work done quickly, or if the Council of State sees that you have to wait until next year's budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-01.ana.ud1531e693	Let me say that I fully agree that a disabled person should avoid experiencing a stigma related to his disability, even though I can't readily agree that what has to do with mental illness is necessarily such a stigma. But enough about it. I will follow up on the review that I have now asked the Swedish National Works Agency to do as soon as practicable. The representative of Nesvik is entitled to the first budgetary occasion when the national budget has been revised.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-01.ana.ud1531e700	I thank you once again for the answer, and look forward to the work to be done. I really hope that this can quickly come into place, so that for the future, we will release what this student experiences, and that this can be resolved in a proper way. I appreciate the speed with which the Council of State intervenes.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-01.ana.ud1531e705	Then that note does not cause anything further from my side.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-01.ana.ud1531e714	I am delighted to ask the Minister for Employment and Social Affairs the following questions: ‘Negative effect’ is a consequence of today’s rules of coordination between public and public sector social security. Some widows will be reduced by the total amount of pension paid out of social security and the public occupational pension scheme if their self-earned supplementary pension becomes sufficiently high. This is very unreasonably felt by many. The case was pending in Stortinget on 15 June 2001. There is no solution yet. How will the Government follow up the matter on this basis?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-01.ana.ud1531e723	The public occupational pension schemes are based on a gross system that guarantees pensioners at least 66 pst. of the final salary on full earnings. Social security pensions are paid in full, while occupational pensions are reduced by a co-ordination deduction. When a pensioner's spouse is dead, the social security allowance combined provides an additional pension of 55 pst. of the sum of the supplementary pension of itself and of the deceased if higher than the additional pension of the survivor. The excess resulting from the generation of the deceased is excluded from coordination. ‘Negative effect’ is linked to the fact that this added benefit is reduced the higher the self-earned supplementary pension of the pensioner. That is to say, the survivor receives an advantage from having earned a low supplementary pension in the social security system. There are several solutions to this issue. However, most of the solutions provide the pensioners with lower total pensions. The question of ‘negative effect’ has been assessed by Stortinget on several occasions. On 15 June 2001, the Stortinget decided to ask the Government to apply the coordination law so that no one can lose on having earned pension points in the social security system. However, the law is so clear that a change in practice requires a change in the law. The question of ‘negative effect’ was therefore sent to a wide audience. With the exception of pensioners’ organisations, most hearing bodies wanted to maintain current coordination. Pensioners’ organisations wish to significantly liberalise coordination. Their solution will impose very large expenditure on public service pension schemes. In addition, this will lead to new biases for other retired pensioners. Many will also experience this as being unfair. The case was subsequently submitted to the Stortinget in connection with the revised national budget for 2003. The government then stated that: «an interim coordination should continue at present and that the issue of changing the coordination should be reviewed in the light of the suspension of the Pension Commission». The majority of the Committee took note of this. The Pension Commission indicated that the so-called ‘negative effect’ can be resolved within the current gross system, but did not take a decision on the solution choice. The issue will now be addressed in the pension notification, as the Government presents in a short time, and further consideration of this theme will be described.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-01.ana.ud1531e752	This is a complicated matter. I am aware that a considerable amount of work has been done to find the best possible solution to this matter. We here at Stortinget are also aware that the timing of the case is not always the shortest way between decisions with the best intentions and practical implementation. But for me, the core of this question is the consideration of the approx. 6000 widows and widowers who thought they had got a solution after the Storting decision of 15 June 2001. Here's what it says: ‘The government asks the Government to ensure the practice of the coordination law so that no one can lose out on having earned pension points in the social security system.’ We also need to understand that 6,000 widows and widowers still thought they had a solution when Prime Minister Kjell Magne Bondevik in Stortinget on 14 May 2002 assured them that the matter would be settled. They thought that the ‘negative effect’ was gone, that they had somehow got their little ‘wage supplement’. Three and a half years is long to wait for something they thought was in order. Is it not three and a half years longer than long enough to wait for the 6000 widows and widowers affected by this ‘negative effect’?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-01.ana.ud1531e764	It is true, as the representative Hogsnes says, that the case has had a relatively long time through both magnification and consultation. But it has to do with the fact that the decision that was originally taken did not come about because someone had to change the law. It took the government an initiative, but then chose to report the outcome of the hearing to the Stortinget, which I presented in my main response. The store has always been informed about how the matter has been handled. The government will come back to the Stortningen in connection with the pension notification, as we announced last year, and so the majority of the population took note.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-01.ana.ud1531e769	I thank the Council of State again for his response and commitment to the matter. I'm probably still a little uncertain about the 6,000 widows and widowers being completely reassured. They've been waiting a very long time. We hope that we will be able to deal with these questions in the pension message, which can quickly clarify what will be the final result in this case, and then hopefully the best for the 6,000 widows and widowers who are still waiting.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-01.ana.ud1531e776	As I said, we will follow up on this in the pension message and outline how we see a future solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-01.ana.ud1531e784	I have a question for the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs: ‘A person active on the left-hand side of Norwegian policy has access to his surveillance police directory. This shows that he did not get a job at the Norwegian Underwater Institute in 1976, among other things. because the authorities did not want attention around what was going on around the North Sea dive. Why was it necessary for the state to keep the conditions around the diving secret, and was there a relationship at the dive that one knew was very unfortunate and that did not tolerate the public light?"
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-01.ana.ud1531e793	I have been conversing with the Minister of Justice, who says that he is not aware that police surveillance documents provide the basis for claiming that the person concerned was refused admission for the purpose of keeping information on the dive. I would like to make it clear that for myself I am not aware that it has at any time been necessary for the state to keep the conditions around the dive secret, neither as regards diving at the Norwegian Underwater Institute nor in the North Sea. The conditions associated with the diving in the North Sea during the pioneer period have been carefully examined by an independent review commission and subsequent deleveraging. In its work, the Commission has had access to archives in several state and private institutions and enterprises. The report does not show that the Commission found any information that would indicate that there was a situation around the North Sea dive that one knew was very unfortunate or that did not tolerate the public light.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-01.ana.ud1531e800	I thank you for your answer. I have to say that at least the information contained in the directory of the person I referred to earlier indicates that the surveillance police actually pointed out – I should not quote from the whole folder – that you simply did not want to get attention on these questions. The document points out that there are a number of issues that are not dealt with in the care system: there is no training provision for health professionals in this area, there is no preparation for the landing of that patient category, etc. – there are several situations listed – and therefore, it is unfortunate that there are those who want to put the search light on it. Is it not the Council of State willing to say here that there is information to suggest that there is a basis on which this matter may need to be brought back to the Grand Duchy and re-examined, or does the Council of State have other ways in which he can follow up the case?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-01.ana.ud1531e809	The Investigation Commission has described and assessed the facts relevant for assessing the current legal position of the divers who dived between 1965 and 1990. The Commission has also found it appropriate to provide a description of some accompanying events providing background information and contributing to a holistic picture. In the Commission’s investigation, the research environment is described for diving in the pioneer days, among others. at the establishment of the Norwegian Underwater Institute, where initially the owners of the Norwegian Veritas and Norway Technical Science Council were owners. I refer to what I said in my main response, and I cannot see that there is new information that justifies a new investigation. A new review will necessarily have to be based on the same information and opinions on the basis of which the Commission’s investigation report and its treatment by the Stortinge. But if a majority in Stortinget wanted a review, of course, I will follow up and contribute to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-01.ana.ud1531e816	I appreciate the fact that the Council of State will follow the decision of Storting, but I had hoped that he would take an initiative himself. We see time and time again that things that have happened in the past, and that come up to new treatment, can get a different result. We have examples of murders, we have examples of various accidents that have been re-examined many years later, and where they have come up with a different result. We know that too soon is e.g. Mehamnus luck again in focus, and there are other conclusions to be drawn than a so-called review commission. Therefore, my call to the Council of State is that, in the light of the new information that has come, he really goes into the matter, goes into those documents, to which I can give the Council of State access, if he does not have them. Here one actually sees that the Norwegian state through the surveillance police has had the divers in focus and has tried to prevent so-called brutal people from getting into work so that they have been able to put a very serious matter in focus for the state.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-01.ana.ud1531e825	I just want to refer to what I said, as an opinion I pass on from the Minister of Justice, he says that he is not aware that the police surveillance service documents provide the basis for claiming that the person concerned was refused admission for the purpose of keeping secret information about the dive. On the basis of the information we have today, I cannot see that there is something that justifies a new investigation. It is, after all, very short since Stortinget dealt with the present review report. That's why I want to refer to the answer I've given. But if there is any new information that justifies a new investigation, and the majority of the Storting would wish it to, it is of course not against me that it does.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-01.ana.ud1531e838	I have the following questions for the Minister of Culture and the Church: ‘Clarification of ownership history is an important tool to prevent illicit or unethical trafficking in valuable art and cultural collections. The National Library has a database that makes the Schøyen collections available, without the history of ownership being clarified. This is contrary to ICOM's guidelines. What does the Council of State think about this, and how will the Council of State ensure that public cultural institutions follow the ICOM guidelines, so that the cultural history of the world can be preserved ethically?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-01.ana.ud1531e847	The National Library has an agreement with Martin Schøyen to make a small part of the Schøyen collection available digitally on the websites of the National Library. The motivation for this cooperation is to give the public access to the content of one of the world's largest and most important collections of objects and manuscripts. Such cooperation would hardly have been initiated if one would hide the source of the collection. In my opinion, the National Library is primarily in favour of making an important part of the cultural heritage available to a wide audience. The ICOM Code is designed for the consumption of museum objects. Today, the National Library does not deposit objects from Martin Schøyen's collections, but, as I said, makes available digital copies of a small part of the collection on the National Library's website. I would like to stress that ownership and return issues are related to the original object and not to digital copies. The Ministry and ABM development suggest that all Norwegian museums follow the ICOM ethical guidelines, which draw up generally accepted broad lines of how museum and museum workers should handle ethical issues related to museum work. The National Library builds its work on corresponding ethical standards through its membership of IFLA, which has close cooperation with UNESCO. Both IFLA and ICOM are members of the Blue Shield which the National Library has contributed to the creation in Norway. ‘Blue Shield’ aims to gather and disseminate information, coordinate efforts and influence governance and professionals to preserve cultural heritage during armed conflicts or disasters. The Government also submitted this summer proposals to the Storting that Norway ratify the 1970 UNESCO Convention on Measures to Ban and Prevent Illicit Imports and Exports of Cultural Objects and the Illicit Transfer of Ownership Rights to Cultural Objects, as stated. St. pp. No 70 for 2003-2004 and Ot.prp. No 76 for 2003-2004, to which the ethical guidelines for ICOM refer. On this basis, I believe that both the National Library and other cultural institutions in this country know and follow the relevant ethical guidelines in their work.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-01.ana.ud1531e866	I thank you for your answer. But I think the Council of State is minimizing the issue, because stating ownership history is a very important requirement if we are to avoid illegal trafficking in antiques, and that is also true when they are digitised. It is good that the Stortinget has now adopted the UNESCO Convention, and it is a step forward that the National Library has sampled whether the history of ownership has been clarified. However, Per Rekdal, a member of the ICOM Executive Board here in Norway, believes that this is only cosmetics, that the National Library should not accept anything other than original documents on everything that is made available digitally. I want to challenge the Council of State to be a little more clear on this, and ask if she agrees with Rekdal's concern that the knowledge of this is not as clear as the Council of State is now expressing.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-01.ana.ud1531e875	We can inform even more strongly than we have done in relation to the legislation on which we are obliged in Norway. But I want to distance myself from the representative's claim that there are illegal imports we're talking about here. I believe that neither I nor the representative can be so clear about what it is. I would also like to inform the representative that I have received letters from Martin Schøyen informing him that he has been in contact with Pakistan's ambassador in Norway concerning manuscripts that might be native to Gilgit in Pakistan, and Schøyen offered to give these manuscripts back to Pakistan. In addition, Martin Schøyen informs that he has been in contact with the Norwegian UNESCO Commission on the return of six manuscript fragments that might stem from the Kabul Museum. The claim that this is illegal, at least I will not sign it. But when that's said, I think our institutions are informed. They're going to follow the code we're committed to. I am also pleased that the Stortinget has at least completed one of the UNESCO Conventions. Now I know that the Environment Committee has decided to suspend the treatment of the other, but he is coming – and then we also have a stronger tool.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-01.ana.ud1531e884	I thank you again for the answer. Illegal trade in antiques is increasing, and we are at risk of the loss of parts of the world's cultural heritage. Now no one can say with certainty that the Schøyen Collection is about illegal trade. The point is, we don't know. When the history of ownership is not automatically clarified, there is a great deal of speculation that this could be about illegal trade. I am pleased that the Council of State can give notice that manuscripts belonging to Afghanistan may be back there. But in the light of the speculations that have occurred, I challenge the Council of State that the Government is taking an active step in clarifying whether the Schøyen collection has come in a clear legal way, and that this makes it clear that the ownership history is being prepared.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-01.ana.ud1531e896	Now we don't operate on speculation, we operate on facts. We've had contact. Martin Schøyen himself has made contact with the department in relation to providing information about what has happened. That it is claimed that things are illegally introduced, I cannot decide, I have to stick to facts and not speculation. But it is quite clear that illicit trade in such material in general is a challenge that we absolutely must take seriously. Now it is one thing that Norway is ratifying, but then other countries that are involved must also ratify in order for us to be able to use the legislation that will soon become available to us. That legislation is based on situations in the future, and not on what is in the past. But I am pleased with Martin Schøyen's active action to get back what he thinks might belong to other places. I also believe that our institutions should, of course, be aware of the legislation on which we are obliged. But again, as I said in my answer, there's a difference between displaying digital material and real material -- that's the one thing. Secondly, one had not posted digital material on the web if one had been afraid that this would have been illegal introduced into the country. One had then rather tried to hide it, if one wanted to hide something.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-01.ana.ud1531e926	These questions are postponed to the next Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-01.ana.ud1531e932	I am delighted to ask the Minister for Fisheries and Coastal Affairs the following questions: ‘For several years the Ministry of Fisheries has had the practice of using Norwegian taxpayers’ money to subsidise large and powerful non-governmental organisations such as: work to allow hunting on different African species. For example, the American organization IWMC World Conservation Trust. What is the reason for such use of taxpayers’ money?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-01.ana.ud1531e941	The involvement of private organisations is important in many contexts, including internationally, when issues relating to the management of living marine resources are discussed and principles set out. The principles of Norwegian environmental policy are linked to ecosystem-based management and sustainable exploitation of harvestable populations. For Norway, it is therefore important to link with organisations working for such administrative principles. For the past four years, the Ministry of Fisheries and the Coast has supported the IWMC World Conservation Trust with DKK 50 000 per year. years. The Ministry of Fisheries and the Coastal Ministry does not provide general operational support to the organisation, but, upon request, supports specific projects that are in line with Norwegian administrative principles. In 2002, support was provided for the implementation of a conference in which the proposal for the listing of wave whales was promoted to the 12th CITES meeting of the Parties. CITES regulates trade in wild fauna and flora species. Norway disputes that Norwegian wave whale populations are under threat. This has also been confirmed by the Scientific Committee of the International Whaling Commission. The aim of the listing is to open up for the export of Norwegian wafer products. In 2003, support for the sub-financing of the book Embracing the Earth’s Wild Resources — a book that promotes the views of resource management that are consistent with Norwegian policies in this area. Support from the Ministry of Fisheries and the Coastal Department to the IWMC this year will be used to create a brochure, among other things. on marine species, evaluating the list proposals submitted at the Conference of the Parties to CITES in October this year. Several countries provided these assessments for their contributions to the meeting and their vote. IWMC is a relatively small organization with its head office in the United States, headed by a former Secretary General of CITES, the Canadian Eugene Lapointe. The IWMC uses the principles of sustainable use of natural resources to underpin its work, i.e.: the same principle as underpinning the notification of the Norwegian marine mammals policy. As you know, Stortinget agreed with the principle when the announcement was dealt with at Stortinget in May this year.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-01.ana.ud1531e962	I still do not get the complete connection between the management of Norwegian marine mammals and elephant hunting. It is true that two out of three of these organisations are not involved in whaling at all, but they still receive money from the Norwegian Ministry of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs in a chapter on resource management information. The third organization, the World Conservation Trust, now heard that we've got a special project, for example. a conference on whaling. But that means that the organisation is freed from its own resources for other projects, such as elephant hunting. In any case, shouldn't these organizations, especially an American organization, get their support from American taxpayers and Americans, and not from Norwegian taxpayers? Or: Is the explanation that Norway buys support players in the fight for Norwegian whaling and international elephant hunting, that this is a payment for lobbying? In that case, I think it is fair enough, but it should be made clear.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-01.ana.ud1531e971	Norwegian authorities provide support to a number of organisations working in different ways and based on different approaches to nature protection. The organisations supported by the Ministry of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs are all spokespersons for sustainable resource use, and this is in line with the policy of the Norwegian authorities themselves, as I explained. The projects we have supported are in line with the principles of governance we use. As regards the question of allowing hunting, for example: elephants, support Norway's controlled exploitation of sustainable populations in land with sound game management. Over the 2004 budget, where we had 1.5 million. At the disposal of information measures, we have primarily supported the High North Alliance, which aims at Norwegian principles. We have supported the advisors used by the Government in our international work, and we have supported some organisations – Norwegian and foreign – that work in line with the governance principles of sustainable use of resources and harvestable resources that we use.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-01.ana.ud1531e980	There are probably a number of organizations, maybe thousands of thousands, around the world that work from the same point of view, such as the Norwegian Government, in different areas. It cannot be the task of the Norwegian taxpayer to subsidise all these organisations, which are therefore established outside Norway? The Head of Mission Williams tells VG today that the main point is to support organisations working for the Norwegian line to harvest sustainable natural resources. I understood the council so that he responded in the same direction. Does this mean, then, that these organisations are representative of Norway's policy in this area, and if so, is there a policy shared by the entire Government, including the Minister for the Environment and the Minister for Agriculture?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-01.ana.ud1531e989	The questioner is completely wrong when he says that we support thousands of organisations. We support some organisations on a project basis. We do not provide operational support, we base principles on sustainable exploitation of stocks, and we stand for eco-based management, which is also a requirement for the projects we are going to support. As Minister of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs, I have been concerned that the support we give to foreign organisations should be project support, just to ensure that the money is spent on activities that support Norwegian administration principles. In this way, this is a good use of taxpayers' money. For the 2005 budget, we have proposed 1.55 million. kr to resource management information measures and the allocation will be decided on the basis of specific applications. We want to emphasise that projects should be linked to ideas that support Norwegian governance principles. The international organisations supported by my department are in line with and in line with both Norwegian foreign policy and the general principles of Norwegian resource management.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-01.ana.ud1531e1004	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Fisheries and Coast: «I St. pp. No 1 for 2003-2004 under the Ministry of Fisheries, it states that ‘projects for the expansion of the aquaculture station in Austevoll and the research station in Flödevigen will be completed during 2004’. I mean, budget-inner. S. No 12 for 2003-2004 No significant changes were made to the content of the proposal in this area. Why, then, this plan work has not yet been carried out as stated in St.prp. No 1 under the Ministry of Fisheries, and as provided by the Stortinget? ‘...
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-01.ana.ud1531e1013	The Ministry of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs has for several years had ambitions to equip and develop both the Matre Maritime Station, the Austevoll Maritime Station and the Flödevigen Test Station. Matres have had the first priority of these. At the same time, as part of the development of cod as a commercial breeding species, it has been considered necessary to establish a new breeding station for cod in Tromsø for completion in 2007. Based on existing plans, it was in St.prp. No 1 for 2003-2004 indicated that the design of Matre was to be completed by the end of 2003 and that the design of Austevoll and Flödevigen was to be completed in 2004, as the questioner says. In retrospect, it has been shown that it was possible to realize a new cod breeding station already in 2004–2005 through the purchase and conversion/fitting of existing facilities on Krakenes outside Tromsø. It gave us a more favourable realization of that project. At the same time, the design of Matres and the pre-projection work carried out in relation to Austevoll and Frödevigen show that the overall development could total more than 400 million. kr. This, together with the generally tight budgetary situation, has led the Ministry of Fisheries and the Coast to consider that all projects can be implemented in the short term as little realistic. It was therefore notified in St. Prop. No 1 for 2004-2005 that a new breeding station for cod and the extension of Matre Maritime Station would be prioritised, while Austevoll and Frödevig would have to be postponed. It follows that further design of Austevoll and Flödvigen should not be carried out until it is further clarified when it is possible to realise these projects, as final design should be completed as close as possible to the start of development.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-01.ana.ud1531e1028	I thank the Council of State for the answer. The reason why I address this question is that it is actually black on white that the design of the expansion of the aquaculture station in Austevoll and the research station in Flödevigen will be completed in 2004. This has been the case, but little has happened as it has been suggested. To the extent that expansion has begun, it has largely stopped both places. For example, the municipality of Arendal has: entered with significant sums to complete a new road, water and drain to the station in the Smooth Way. At the same time, a floating new quay plant has been built there for several million dollars. All of this has been done precisely pending the proposed design and expansion that would take place as soon as possible. I hope at least that the Council of State understands the local frustration, as this has not happened in line with what you had imagined. Can the Council of State say when it is possible to expect money for pre-projecting, as suggested at Austevoll and in the Frödevigen?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-01.ana.ud1531e1039	I confirm that the government still has the ambition to expand the research stations both in Austevoll and in Flödevigen, but it requires that there is budgetary room for it. That is what the Stortinge must decide at all times. We want to finish the pre-projecting work as closely as possible, just to avoid us raising false hopes – to put it that way. We have had to admit that the total cost has become so high – an estimated 400 million. kr – that it is not realistic to continue to design with an ambition to achieve rapid implementation, in 2005. But I share the questioner's wish for a realization as soon as possible. We have taken the necessary upgrading measures in the areas of health, environment and safety, also within the current housing scheme under the responsibility of State Building. So those considerations are taken care of. It is true that in the Flödvigen there have been improvements on the road and on the docks, as is also explained here.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-01.ana.ud1531e1044	I thank you for the answer, and now the Council of State has given its explanations to my question. I have of course noted it, and am reasonably satisfied with it. I would also like to mention that I was recently visiting the research station in Flödevigen, at Arendal. It's almost a shame that nothing has been done too far with the bad and old-fashioned building masses there, you ask me. So here it is a very old and worn - out building mass, and you have defective laboratory facilities. There is a shortage of office space, meeting rooms, archive rooms, etc. If you want to bet at the research station in Flödevigen, which I believe is absolutely necessary for several reasons, something has to be done here as soon as possible. I understand that the Council of State will look at the possibilities of getting as fast as possible progress and clarification on what needs to be done in the Frödevigen and also at Austevoll, so that we can get the most necessary upgrade of these two stations as soon as possible, if I understand the Council of State correctly.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-01.ana.ud1531e1053	I recommend several representatives to visit research institutions. Then you will see that there is very useful and very good research at all of the stations. I assumed that there was some sort of priority in the question because they had now visited the Flötvigen. I think we need to see all the facilities together, and that we need to make priorities based on an overall assessment and not just after a single visit. But we share the desire to strengthen both research and the infrastructure needed. But it's still the case that in the Flötvigen, with the deficiencies at the station, there's a very good research going on.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-01.ana.ud1531e1060	The next question is from Steinar Bastisen. The President can't see that the questioner is present, so if the Council of State can wait a bit, it might...
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-01.ana.ud1531e1063	The Council of State may also answer without asking the question.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-01.ana.ud1531e1068	It sounded very good.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-01.ana.ud1531e1071	I'll wait.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-01.ana.ud1531e1077	The council is then so kind to wait a little while, and we'll see if the questioner shows up. In the meantime, Stortingen can go to question No. 11, from the representative of Bjarne Håkon Hanssen to the Minister of Health and Care.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-01.ana.ud1531e1083	Thank you! I'm glad I get to ask question 11 and not question 10. ‘Through the media, it is claimed that there are plans to merge the oslosy hospitals and that, in this context, it is considered that the division of health regions is changing. Will such significant changes be submitted to the Storting before a decision is taken?’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-01.ana.ud1531e1092	In the 2005 draft state budget, which is now under discussion in the United Kingdom, I have given an indication that there is an investigation into better coordination of specialist health services in the metropolitan area and that the Ministry intends to present its assessments of these issues in the context of the revised national budget in spring 2005. The study on the coordination of hospitals in the metropolitan area is in line with the process outlined in the draft State budget, sent at the hearing to various stakeholder groups, and the deadline for issuing written consultation opinions is set today, 1 December. Four consultation meetings have also been held with different actors. The study outlines several possible solutions for the organisation of hospitals in the metropolitan area. One of the options asked by the representative Bjarne Håkon Hanssen is a combination of the two regional health companies Health South and Health East. During the hearings and in the written recordings that have been made, it has been stated by several hearing bodies that this is a good solution, while others are concerned about such a region of the South-East. My final assessment of how this can best be done in the future, and whether this could involve changes in regional borders, I will come back when the matter is presented to the Stortinget in revised for information. This implies that the current contractual model of cooperation between Health South and Health East will continue in some form. At the same time, to a greater extent than has been done now, I would like to use management tools that I have as the owner of the regional health companies, to solve the coordination problems that have arisen in the capital area, but which are also seen in other regional health establishments. It seems to me as sufficiently documented that the model chosen for the organisation of Health-Norway has some weaknesses in important areas. Coordination must be better than it has been at present, so that total resources are better used and that we will in future avoid double investment in buildings, expensive medical devices, technical equipment, ICT solutions, etc. At the business meeting at the beginning of January, I want to make clear ownership requirements in which areas this will happen. All the new measures have in common that they place patients in the centre — no matter how it may sound. Taking out synergies is an objective to improve the health care of individual patients and, of course, not an end in itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-01.ana.ud1531e1107	I thank you for your answer. It's an answer that I'm very pleased with. I have never wanted to express the fact that the Minister of Health does not have the governing powers in Health-Norway, on the contrary. The purpose of the health reform was precisely that Health-Norway had to get a boss. It was a responsibility reform, and the boss is the Health Minister. If the Minister of Health is dissatisfied with the development of Health-Norway, the Minister of Health has every opportunity to intervene. I remember well that the Council of State Høybråten in its time as Minister of Health, for example. found it appropriate to intervene and stop a proposal for the closure of a feeding room at Gjøvik. That's what I thought was a wise decision by the Council of State Høybråten. This shows that the Minister of Health has absolute opportunities. In its reply, the Council of State says that Stortinget will be briefed in the revision. Do we want to be more than orientated? Will we be involved in the resolution?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-01.ana.ud1531e1114	To take the last one first, the size of the population has determined by law who draws the boundaries of regional health enterprises. But of course, the Storting is free to take decisions at any time, even if one has delegated authority to others. However, with regard to the governance options, you must take note of the fact that you chose an organisational model without having a group model, where you actually have a boss at the top who is driving instructions on what to do. Health company legislation is based on exactly what Hanssen, a representative, said that action can be stopped — the closure of maternity wards, the closure of local hospitals. But running a group of this size just by saying what not to do, I think over time will be difficult. I see that the health company law nevertheless gives the owner in the business meeting many opportunities, definitely. I'm going to use them, and they have to be useful. Otherwise, I think this reform will end in the mountain wall. For me, sufficient evidence has been provided that the allocation of resources is not optimal in any way. It's just to look at the governance protocols of regional health companies for the last three years, you see what you've been doing. Interviewing directors gives a good indication of what you think about investments, for example, if you could see the other health companies in the cards. We need to see things in context, but I agree with the representative that opportunities are there if you want to use the business meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-01.ana.ud1531e1125	Interestingly, the Minister of Health is not satisfied with the way resources in Health Norway have been managed in the last three years. But I just have to take note of that. The important thing for me is to stress that here the Minister of Health has control options that he can use. If the Minister of Health is displeased with the organisation of the division of labour between hospitals in Oslo, the Minister of Health has the opportunity to use his power to take action, and I will support the Minister of Health in that, if he chooses to use that opportunity. Then, of course, I am aware that on the issue of regionalisation, the Minister of Health can make his own decision. But the question is whether it is wise to do so, and whether it is not wise now to involve the Stortinget in such a new reform, so that it can be built on the broad consensus that has been on health reform. My recommendation goes in that direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-01.ana.ud1531e1134	My assessment is that it is very wise to involve Stortinget. Therefore, the Government has also stated in two documents to the Grand Duchy that, despite the fact that the Storting has delegated this to the King in the Council of State, one will find it most useful and sensible that the organisation of the largest service provider in Norway finds its solution in the Storting, just to anchor it broadly. I think it would be wise to take inwards, no matter what you may have thought three years ago about how this should be done, that the things you discover in retrospect that appear to be imperfections in the way you control it, you have to do something about it, without saying that you end everything there is. It is quite clear that this is the case, especially in the case of investments, which are a long-term affair, that the rationale, if any, of what has been done often turns out in retrospect. Now we're in retrospect, and what we didn't see on day one, we're looking at day thousand. That's where we are now.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-01.ana.ud1531e1141	Then Steinar Bastesen came, and we go back to question 10.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-01.ana.ud1531e1148	I have a question for the Minister for Fisheries and Coastal Affairs: ‘The European Commission adopted on 13 October this year a new proposal for a port directive to give shipping companies greater freedom to choose who will load and unload the ships. Will such a Directive have an effect on Norway and how does the Council of State approach the Directive?’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-01.ana.ud1531e1157	The proposal for a directive has a long way to go before it becomes a policy. It must be about both the Council and the European Parliament, and it is very controversial. However, if adopted, the EU competition rules and Treaty provisions on the free movement of services will also apply in the port sector. That would mean, for example, that. be opened for greater access to compete for cargo and unloading operations in ports. In addition, it is proposed that crews on short sea vessels or on ‘Motorways of the Seas’ vessels, as it is called, be given increased access to ‘self-action’ as stated in the proposal. The EU does not currently have a common regulation of port services, and there are still a good number of monopolies and restrictions preventing free market access for providers of this type of service. The Ministry of Fisheries and the Coast has been actively involved in influencing the Directive. On the Norwegian side, it has been requested that pilotage services are not covered by the Port Services Directive, because Norway has State unloading and there is no access for private operators to provide pilot services. As I said, the proposal is controversial and was rejected in the first round of the European Parliament. Loose and cargo workers in the main ports have the right of priority/denominated to carry out all unloading and loading work on ships, in accordance with ILO Convention 137. Norway asked the Commission to assess the compatibility of the proposed Directive with the ILO Convention. The Commission considers that the proposal is neutral in the sense that it does not affect national provisions on employment and social issues, including vocational training, or on the environment, maritime safety and preparedness for terrorism. Norway has previously requested that the initial thresholds for ports to be covered by the Directive be made consistent with the requirements for ports of category A of the TEN-T, as it is called. This means that, on average, the port shall have an annual volume of goods of 1,5 million. tonne or 200000 passengers. This has also been applied in the new proposal for a directive. The ports in Norway which could be covered by the Port Services Directive are primarily Mo in Rana, Bergen, Karmsund, Stavanger, Kristiansand, Grenland, Larvik, Sandefjord, Oslo and Borg. Increased competition may contribute to lower costs and more efficient port services. The Port Services Directive will provide more transparent rules for the provision of port services, which are positive for competition and efficiency and a step towards strengthening short sea shipping. The Ministry of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs will follow the further process of designing the Port Services Directive and continuously assess Norwegian interests in this area. But I remind you that the proposal is controversial in the EU system, and it has yet another way to go before it becomes effective policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-01.ana.ud1531e1172	I thank the Council of State for the answer, and I have the following additional questions: the Council of State must be in favour of or against a principle which is based on port workers undertaking cargo and unloading operations in Norway. To put it another way: does the Council of State mean that the shipping companies themselves will decide who will unload or load the ships?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-01.ana.ud1531e1177	Now we are dealing with a proposal in the European Union that has not been adopted and therefore not the current policy by the Norwegian side. We have raised issues related to the issue raised here, and have shown that the ILO Convention imposes certain restrictions. We are following the further process in the European Union in this matter. I refer to the fact that the unloading and loading workers in Norway were active when this case was the last one, and actually carried out political strikes in ports in both 2001 and 2002. We have not taken a position from Norway on a proposal that has not been adopted in the EU.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-01.ana.ud1531e1182	That's reassuring to hear, and I thank the Council again for the answer. But then I have to ask the Council of State if he is willing to veto Norway's compliance with this EU regulation when it comes up.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-01.ana.ud1531e1187	It is difficult to say that we should focus on that or veto a proposal that is not adopted. I think it will benefit Norwegian reputation and Norwegian political freedom that we now await and see what is adopted, and then we are actively involved in influencing that process in advance. We could have done that even better if we had been a member of the EU, but even when we're outside, we're able to do something of what the Bastesen representative asks of me. But what he's really asking me to do is be a member of the EU.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-01.ana.ud1531e1192	I'm not going to do that!
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-01.ana.ud1531e1197	Question 11 has already been answered.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-01.ana.ud1531e1203	«At a meeting I attended with trust-elects in Health South on 15 November this year, it was found that the trust-elects were seriously concerned about the economy in the hospital sector. They considered that there was no agreement between the Government’s verbal objectives and the appropriations provided for in the 2005 budget. What is the Council of State's assessment of this, especially in relation to local and near-hospital hospitals?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-01.ana.ud1531e1215	I will initially be allowed to point out that in the post-reform period there has been a strong increase in the state transfers to the specialist health service, and I can well say it so strongly that hardly any other sector for which the Storting is responsible has experienced a corresponding increase in transfers. The opposite is that during the same period we have had a very strong increase in activity, with associated increased costs. The hospital reform promoted by the Stoltenberg government initially provided great opportunities for better resource use. Collecting ownership at the national level would initially facilitate a better use of resources. However, questions may be asked about whether the organisation chosen underpins the possibility of taking efficiency gains. From the outset, it has been a fundamental prerequisite for regional health businesses to balance their balance sheet. Without a credible requirement for a balance sheet, the ownership management of the country and thus the budgetary discipline of health enterprises are undermined. However, the implementation of migration is very demanding processes that take time, not least in a sector such as the specialist healthcare service, where we must constantly keep an eye on patients’ best interests even when implementing such measures. This has resulted in regional health enterprises being given both more time and resources before the balance sheet requirement is met. Most recently, the financial committee was closed to next year's government budget, where the government parties and the Progress Party increased transfers to the specialist health service by 500 million. kr. The budget agreement recently concluded by the members of the Social Committee from the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Progress Party also provided for the relaxation of the balance requirement for Health South in 2005. I expect Health Sør will ask for a meeting with me to discuss this if they find it difficult to meet the Storting's general demand for balance by the end of 2005. In the case of local hospitals, I will refer you to the comprehensive report provided in the 2005 draft state budget. It shows that local hospitals have and will continue to play an important role in the achievement of health policy objectives. For these too, it has to be accepted for any changes to be made, but if any changes are to be made, I will demand that this be included in a comprehensive strategy for specialist health services. Whatever changes or not, it has to be the quality that can be achieved in healthcare, which has to be the governing factor in how we organise these services.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-01.ana.ud1531e1230	From the part of the state council, he's probably familiar with hospital struggles and people's fights to keep his local hospitals. When employees and directors in the hospital sector are now concerned about the possible closure of departments, centralisation, etc. compared to the economy that hospitals have, I'm a little surprised that it doesn't concern the council more than it seems when he answers this question. I would therefore like to ask again: will the Council of State ensure that there will not have to be major rationalisation and savings in the hospital sector because of the budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-01.ana.ud1531e1235	First of all, it's quite right, as the representative Klungland says, that I'm well acquainted with conflict in the case of hospitals. After 25 years as a politician based in West Agder, I know most of the facets of this. It has also struck me when I have traveled elsewhere in the country, that the problem we had in West Agder, where hospitals are located at just about four miles apart, because some other regions in the country appear to be a relatively luxurious problem. But I have a lot of understanding that you want to keep it – definitely. However, I do not think I can give a guarantee that there will be no changes in anything regarding departmental structures and the accumulation of competence. Developing peak competence is what characterizes the entire specialist health service. You see an increasing degree of specialization. That means we can't do everything everywhere. But all the change should have neither directors nor others as a starting point, it is the patient's best that will be the starting point.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-01.ana.ud1531e1240	I registered the answer to the question from Bjarne Håkon Hanssen, who was dividing health regions, or lack of answers to what the Council of State would do with it. We in the Workers' Party are concerned that we will now have some gigantic health regions, especially in relation to what it can mean for local hospitals. Then it is that those who are employed and who notice this on the body are seriously concerned about the economic policy towards the hospitals that are now being conducted. Isn't that a concern of the Council of State at all? Or does the Council of State feel that trustees' concerns about hospitals and their work situation are unfounded?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-01.ana.ud1531e1247	I have no evidence to say that someone's concerns are subjectively unfounded. Those who say they're worried, I assume I'm worried. The question is what emphasis should be placed on it in relation to the concern that the undersigned may have for patients and for treatment. I am quite convinced that former governments that have shut down the entire local hospital have done so because it was thought that a better quality offer could be achieved. And the fact that we've had and have a medical development leads to that we can't do everything everywhere. I haven't heard anyone who wants the health care we had in 1960, 1970 or 1980, for that matter, where almost everything could be done anywhere. The high degree of specialization means you can't. Now we are actually discussing whether we should have a common Scandinavian approach to how rare diseases, for example, should be treated. It is the same as reflected in regional health enterprises.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-01.ana.ud1531e1260	I have the following questions for the Minister of Health and Welfare: ‘It is alleged that a signal has gone out from the Ministry of Health of the Ministry of Health that although the ISF has increased from 40 to 60 p.p., it is assumed that hospitals will not treat more patients in 2005 than in 2004. Can the Council of State cancel or confirm that such a signal has already expired from the Ministry of Health?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-01.ana.ud1531e1269	The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left agree on a comprehensive agreement on the state budget for 2005. This agreement implies an increase in the ISF share from 40 to 60 pst. from 1 January 2005. The Government has been asked to come back with an assessment and proposals for measures to ensure cost control in relation to the revised national budget 2005 as set out below. The setting of the Hagen selection, including: also ensures the intention of psychiatry. In this context, the Stortinget shall also be briefed on developments in the hospital economy. The increase in the ISF share from 40 to 60 pst. reduces the economic risk to regional health enterprises by increasing activity. However, the basic allocation of regional health establishments also determines the amount of activity, because the cost control of the scheme is assumed to be ensured by the average ISF rate not covering the marginal cost. Accordingly, regional health establishments are responsible for ensuring that the basic appropriations are not exceeded in order to generate an operating deficit. The government’s 2005 budget proposal facilitates the continuation of hospital activity at about the same level as in 2004. This activity objective is initially not modified by the budget agreement, nor has the Ministry given new governance signals related to the activity of health enterprises in 2005, in addition to that provided by St.prp. No 1 for next year. I am now working on the ordering document of regional health companies based on St.prp. No (1) the position of the Social Committee and the decisions which will be taken when considering this position here in plenary next week. This order document will be issued in the first week of January and will naturally reflect the decisions resulting from the agreement between the Party of Advancement and the Government Parties of the Grand Duchy.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-01.ana.ud1531e1280	I thank the Council of State for the answer and feel reassured that such a signal as has been suggested here has not been given by the Minister of Health, but that this is something that comes back to in the newsletter. The proposal to increase the ISF from 40 p.m. to 60 p.m., adopted by the Progress Party in the budgetary conciliation, provides firms with an incentive to make effective use of their capacity and significantly increase their revenues. I think that will result in an increase in patient treatment, perhaps corresponding to the increase from 2002 to 2003 of 4 to 5 pst. Does the Minister for Health agree that such an opportunity should be present?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-01.ana.ud1531e1289	Let me make it absolutely clear, as far as the representative Alvheim's introduction to the question is concerned, about the so-called signals that must have been derived from the office: the order document, or the governance document, which is often mentioned, expires the first week of January with the signature of the signature, and that is what is the governance document for regional health companies. That document must of course reflect the fact that we are increasing the ISF share from 40 to 60 pst, with the possibilities and the pitfalls that may be associated with it. Nobody wants us to have any sort of budgetary control. I am fully aware of that, nor is the representative Alvheim's starting point. But how large any growth will be is difficult for the undersigned to figure out on the basis of the documentation I have per person. today.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-01.ana.ud1531e1296	Once again, I thank the Minister of Health for the answer, and I take it that it is the Minister of Health who, in his letter of governance to the companies, gives the necessary instructions, including as regards the increase in patient treatment according to Storting's intentions and the allocation of the Storting. The incentives for hospital reform are very active in spreading rumors and negative characteristics about the hospital reform that creates unrest, misunderstandings and irritations around, not only in the individual hospital, but especially in the local environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-01.ana.ud1531e1303	What is the main concern of the representative Alvheim, who is on the steering paper, I take note of. That there's a disturbance in this business, there's nothing new. And that it's counterpower, you can see it all the time. However, I feel that the budget proposed by the Government and the agreement we have reached with the Progress Party will mean that more patients will be treated next year. Of course, there will be a framework to that effect. But the fact that we have this agreement, with its substance, will be reflected in that document.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-01.ana.ud1531e1313	I have the following questions for the Minister for Transport: ‘About 75 pst. of road traffic from other countries enters through E6 and E18 through Eastfold. Many road-hazardous non-resident road trains and lorries are allowed to continue their journey despite inappropriate tyres and poor chain equipment. This helps to create chaos in traffic. The state road authority only controls 10 pst. of vehicle combinations. What information and control measures will the Council of State take to improve conditions?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-01.ana.ud1531e1322	The State Road Service has stated that there has been a significant improvement in both the vehicle standard and the wheel equipment on the foreign vehicle combinations in recent years. Those who drive permanently to Norway have almost as good a standard as a Norwegian vehicle. The main reason for these problems is that part of the vehicle types used is not suitable for driving on Norwegian winter roads, that some drivers lack experience in winter driving, and that the chain is not put on in time. The State Road Service carries out daily checks on heavy goods vehicles. Checks are spread around the clock, all the days of the week and the whole country. The checks are carried out both at fixed control stations and during unannounced mobile checks. I think this is a proper prioritization of the resources. A re-prioritisation of day-to-day control at the major border crossings would involve a deprioritisation of control tasks elsewhere in the country where there may be critical road sections, other weather and traffic conditions, as well as cross-border traffic and local traffic. The road authorities of the country shall consider the following points in their follow-up to these checks: The regulatory framework shall be strictly and consistently enforced. Checks shall be coordinated across regional borders and along the main road network in order to enable them to overlap and maximise their impact. Checks shall be targeted and prioritised according to critical road sections and weather and traffic conditions. The days when there are particularly poor driving conditions shall be re-prioritisation of duties and control times so as to give priority to this type of control. Particular account shall be taken of cross-border traffic. Preventive controls and active information and motivation work shall be carried out. In addition to roadside checks, Statens vägvesen has put in place national and international information measures on heavy car traffic on Norwegian winter roads. The ‘Donna Diesel’ campaign is an information action aimed at foreign heavy goods transport. The aim is to reach foreign heavy-duty drivers, carriers and freight forwarders with information on the conditions and rules of traffic on Norwegian winter roads. In the information work, the State Road Administration will inter alia: focus on the following themes: which vehicles are suitable and unsuitable for use in the winter-time consequences of using vehicles where the use of the chain is difficult to achieve when stopped and detained due to the lack of securing of grip on the way of laying on the chain, and to put on the chain in time the consequences for transport buyers using carriers with poor transport safety during winter-time. This is an important area of the State Road Service. It is a work that is also taken care of and partly carried out by the police, in cooperation with Vegvesenet.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-01.ana.ud1531e1373	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It is now that more than half of the vehicle combinations that create chaos in Norwegian winter roads are foreign. The rescue service Falck says that so far this year they have had 2,300 rescue operations for heavy transport. 1,200 of them were foreign. At Viking Rescue, you say something of the same thing, you've had 2,400 jobs for the North so far, and at least the same number for the Foreigners. We know that we have a lot more Norwegian trucks running through the roads in Norway, and then the overrepresentation of foreign vehicles becomes quite large. Both of these organizations say: ‘We see that many non-resident vehicle combinations have bad tyres and bad chains. Drivers often have insufficient knowledge of when to put chains into service and generally have little experience and poor judgment in relation to smooth driving.» This is not entirely in line with the production of the Council of State, but it is a significant problem. Does not the Council of State feel that urgent action is now being taken to reduce the frequency of accidents?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-01.ana.ud1531e1389	What the representative here stressed is that both control and information are very important. It also shows that the work already under way by the State Road Administration is important. Firstly, it is probably right that some foreign drivers have poor knowledge of what it is like to drive on Norwegian winter roads. Secondly, now that we have fortunately introduced the chain directive, the legislation is very clear in relation to what is required to be able to drive in Norway in the winter, but it is still seen that there is still a lack of knowledge in relation to, among others, Norway. to put on a chain. Therefore, it is important that we have controls around the country, and that there are people present who can not only control but also guide how to use a chain, so that all actors can feel safer on Norwegian roads.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-01.ana.ud1531e1396	I thank the Council of State for the additional response. I notice that this year's situation with regard to chaos and traffic problems is about the same as we had a year ago. And what the population is asking is, when can we see results in practice, something that really monks? This information service is important, and I know that in some other countries you have a very good information service. Do you learn from those who have evaluated and succeeded in getting the information to go in, so that we can gradually achieve significantly better results?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-01.ana.ud1531e1405	I think it is very important that we cooperate with all parties with whom it is possible to cooperate in relation to these information campaigns. The information that is being worked on is not only national by providing information at the moment you enter the country. It is also a matter of being a little busy and simply making contact with the countries from which these carriers come. And this activity is in full swing. We have contact from Norway with the Norwegian embassies in different countries, and we have contact with the companies. In addition, the Road Directorate has called the Norwegian Freight Car Association and the Transport Companies National Association to a meeting on 14 December in order to discuss cooperation on information actions aimed at Norwegian and foreign actors, both in the short and long term. In conclusion, I would like to say that I have received feedback from some places where you can see that there is a visible control, and that the conditions have become a little better than before. But we are facing a challenge in this area, so it is important not to rest in this work.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-01.ana.ud1531e1415	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Defence: «As a result of St.prp. No 42 for 2003-2004 it was decided for Kongswinger that there should only be a commanding team of 3 positions. How far has this process progressed, and what are the thoughts of the Council of State on future use and management of this for its users and the fastening as an important national monument?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-01.ana.ud1531e1424	For the treatment of Inster. S. No 234 for 2003-2004, related to St.prp. No 42 for 2003-2004, the Stortinget adopted a new district structure for the Heimevert. A new district comprising Hedmark and Uppland counties was created with district staff at the Terningmoen in Elverum and with a subject commanding force at Kongsvinger fortification. The command was set up to meet the defence's obligations towards the fastening plant. As a follow-up to Stortingen’s decision, the Heimevarsstaben has started work on proposals for the future operational concept of the commandship at the fastening. This work shall include, inter alia: clarify cooperation and sharing of responsibilities between the Command and Defence Agency, regional support function at Romerike and the Defence Museum's exhibitions at the fortification. Proposals for operational concepts shall be completed during the first six months of the following year. It is also stated that the relevant posts in the command team will be published in the spring of 2005. The work on a new operational concept includes drawing up plans for a gradual reduction of military presence in line with Storting’s decision and ensuring the proper operation of the attachment. It is intended to provide a solution that preserves the fortress as a cultural memory and arena and reduces the need for grants for management, operation and maintenance as much as possible. As part of the operational concept, a governance model is also considered in which command is a natural and necessary part, together with Defence Buildings, in order to ensure the defence's obligations, the necessary coordination of cultural activities, management and rental and contact with public authorities. In the spring of 2005, an opportunity study for civil exploitation of the building stock currently in military use, including searches for current tenants, will be continued. There is evidence of the condition and protection value of the building stock as well as maintenance plans that provide a good basis for this work. Future use and adaptation will be based on the cultural heritage, peculiarity and history of the fastening. In addition, Kongswinger fastening will be central to the hundred-year marking of the Union resolution. A number of events will be held in June, August and September, and a Nordic-Baltic Minister of Defence meeting will be held there in August, just to underline the importance of the fortress as a national monument.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-01.ana.ud1531e1441	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which I interpret as a positive response for the future life of the fastening, although it is not yet a concrete and definite thing. The reason for my concern, and therefore the question, is that there is still uncertainty as to what a commanding team of three people should do in concrete terms, whether it is HV05's work, or whether it is working to operate the attachment, possibly a combination. It may seem that HV05, the Inspector-General of the Home Office and those involved in the fastening may have a somewhat different view of how this should be carried on. And then my question is – to put it into concrete terms: Can the Council of State promise that the main task of a commanding team of three persons will be to take care of the interests of the fastening, and that there are others who will take care of the work of HV05?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-01.ana.ud1531e1448	I don't want to prejudge the investigation that's going on both under the auspices of Homeland Protection and under the direction of Defence Building to just solve what's the main challenge: the best possible use of the attachment in the future. When we decided to keep Homeland Protection connected to the fortification, it was because it was important that there is also activity on our fortifications, although the military activity in the future needs to be more closely combined with some civil and cultural use. I understand very well the questioner's concern, because the fortification is a building that we care about, everyone. But I can at least promise that I will follow the investigations that are taking place during the spring, and would like to come back with more supplementary information when we have it available.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-01.ana.ud1531e1457	I thank you for the answer, which at least makes me a little more calm. That we have common interests here, I don't think that's the slightest doubt. Otherwise I heard that the Council of State took this up by using the attachment further. I think it's positive that it can be used both militarily and civilly. One should try to find tenants – I think that's the word the council used, and not the word sales. I think that if you use the word sale in the process that we are in now, especially as we approach the centenary, it is completely wrong. There are some people who talk about what's inside the fortification, we're going to keep, but two buildings, among other things. Gildenborg, we can consider – I stress – selling. But the government didn't use that word. I hope that the Council of State will not use that word in the future either, because this is a unit that belongs together. Otherwise, it might be a thought – if possible – to see Kongsvinger fastening together with Akershu’s fastening and in a different way connect the operation.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-01.ana.ud1531e1466	I fully agree with the questioner that we must clearly aim for the fortification to be in public ownership, that the public takes responsibility for it, not least in relation to the large cultural monuments that lie here. But I want to add that it can be a definition question of what is included in the area of the attachment. Here I have recorded that there are several different views locally. It has, among other things, some have argued that the multi-use building should not be included in the fastening area and should be considered for sale. This will be one of the questions we need to consider in more detail in the work to be carried out in the spring. For me, the most important thing is that the area is used, that it becomes an important focal point for the local environment, and, of course, that public expenditure is as low as possible. Because there are also other stakeholders who can benefit from it, so far I will have a pragmatic view of rental or sales, if there is interest in individual areas that can be distinguished.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-01.ana.ud1531e1474	‘According to the Directorate of Nature Management, important assumptions in the context of the concession treatment of the Mossava Strip in North Trøndelag have proved to be incorrect. The regulation has caused far more serious damage to the fish stocks than the powers of the concession control. The compensation allowance has not been sufficient to maintain the salmon population, which is now threatened with extinction. Does the Council of State consider that the concession conditions can be changed to save the salmon strain in the Mossava Strait?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-01.ana.ud1531e1481	Consent to regulate Melting Water, etc. in the Mossava stretch was given to the North Trøndelag Electricity Works by Royal Resolution of 4 December 1981. The concession terms provided for the required water release to be subject to review following previous biological inspections. Such studies have been carried out and Nord-Trøndelag Electricity plants have applied for a change in the flow of water. In line with common practice, the application was sent at a wide consultation of the NVE, and in this context the opinion of the Directorate for Nature Management was received. On the basis of the application and the opinions received in the consultation round, the NVE has put an end to the case, which was sent to the Ministry of Oil and Energy for further consideration. The NVE's position was then sent to the Ministry of the Environment, the Nord-Trøndelag County and the municipality of Mosvik. The Ministry is now working on the establishment of a final management regulation for the regulation of Meltingvatnet etc. in the Mossava stretch. The work is carried out in close cooperation with the nature and environmental protection authorities. The Ministry would like to find a final operating regulation that takes care of both environmental interests and power generation. The operating rules shall be adopted by kgl. Resolution. I aim that the matter can be decided during the winter.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-01.ana.ud1531e1488	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I like the positive tone I hear. This is a salmon river that used to be a good small lake area. They took up almost 1,000 kg of salmon. There are two waters, the river Ålvatnet and the Melting Water, that are associated with this, and that have had very low water levels these years. The watering in the Mossava strip has been very low, and the challenge is to keep both the salmon trunk, the estuaries and the wetlands there. It is important for district municipalities that they not only have a power plant to live on, but also have the opportunity to live on the natural resources around them. Does the Council see the importance of retaining both the salmon strain, the estuaries and the wetlands associated with this watercourse?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-01.ana.ud1531e1495	Yes, absolutely. I see, in particular, the need to take care of salmon strains, and other important areas need to be given weight, not just to take into account power generation. I also think it is important to stress that the advantage of having had this system temporarily is that we now have the opportunity to adopt a final decision. Then we can try to capture the changed conditions that have emerged along the way since the watercourse was subject to concession in 1981. That means, of course, that we must take care of both the environment and the salmon strain in the future. I feel a strong need to stress that in dealing with this matter I will pay particular attention to environmental concerns and to the future salmon strain, and that conditions are being provided to enable us to meet that need.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-01.ana.ud1531e1500	I think it's very reassuring.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-01.ana.ud1531e1508	I would like to ask the Minister for the Environment: ‘The Ministry of Transport has now provided a green light for the establishment of a civil airport at Rygge. What can now prevent an establishment is that no emission permit is granted. Governments are well aware of the pollution problems in the Vansee and the SFT report on the status of the watercourse, which is described as very serious. The municipalities around Vansjö have agreed to set up if there are zero emissions to Vansjö. Can the Council of State assure the municipalities that there will be zero emissions from the establishment of a civil airport at Rygge?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-01.ana.ud1531e1517	As Minister of Environment, I am concerned about the pollution situation in Lake Van. Lakes are heavily overburdened by nutrients, mainly from waste water discharges and agricultural run-offs. So emission reductions are important for both of these sources. It is also important to prevent new impurity emissions from increasing the load in the watercourse. I have now taken the initiative to strengthen work on improving water quality in Lake Van. The state's pollution control authorities include: request the initiation of cooperation with the Morsa project in order to implement the most relevant inland actions that should be implemented in the watercourse. Opening to civil aviation at Ragge Airport will have consequences for the environment that need to be considered in connection with the release loop. The establishment of the aerodrome shall be subject to the pollution laws for discharges into water and land. It is the county of Eastfold which is the concession authority in the cause, and the Ministry of the Environment is complaining of the prudence. The matter is now handled by the county council, and it is therefore not correct that I now give a specific opinion on the discharge.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-01.ana.ud1531e1526	Thank you very much for your answer. I have an experience that the council takes the watercourse of Lake Vanity seriously, and he has also visited the watercourse. I think that's positive. But it's not just Lake Van that's a problem in the environmental perspective of this airport. It is also an overall environmental perspective for the total emissions from aircraft in Norway. There is now capacity both at Torp and at the Gardermoen. This establishment is likely to give us more competition, there will be more half-empty aircraft flying, and the third in the environmental perspective is aircraft noise. This is then a civil establishment of an aerodrome in a residential area. There's a lot of people living within the noise zone, and this is a new start-up. Does the Council of State think this is right from an environmental point of view?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-01.ana.ud1531e1533	I'm pleased with the commitment May Hansen has towards Vansjø. I also know that the representative has been involved in this matter for a long time. I think we share the concern that we're now seeing, over a watercourse that has challenges, and that's why we've now seen a work going on. In relation to the question, it's clear that we have to look at the health care situation, even in relation to the aviation conditions in Norway. That applies to the environmental challenge in general. We're content to look at and evaluate the health. And the environmental aspect I think I have to be in these decisions, as in all other decisions. The environment should be part of a healthy environment, covering all sectors. What makes me not to go into the release loop now is that there are currently emission permits until 31 December 2007. There has been a complaint about it. The Ministry of the Environment will be complaining about memory when it comes to pollution emissions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-01.ana.ud1531e1542	I would like to thank you for your answer. I have to say that I appreciate the answers given by the Council of State. It seems he's worried about the establishment of a civil airport at Rygge. The Council of State also answers my first question that opening up civil aviation at Rygge Airport will have consequences for the environment that have to be taken into account in the context of the emissions permit. This means, I feel, that the Council of State actually answers my first question, whether zero emissions from a civil airport are possible, no, that's not possible. But can the Council of State respond to it once again: Is it possible to establish a civil airport at Rygge that gives a zero emission? Because that's what the municipalities have given permission to do around Vansjø. And can the Council of State say a little bit more in relation to the fact that a civil airport is being established here in a residential area, how many live within the noise zone?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-01.ana.ud1531e1549	I would like to reiterate that what I am saying is that opening up to civil aviation at Rygge Airport will have consequences for the environment that need to be taken into account in connection with emission permits. I do not say anything concrete about what the emission permits it to be. It is the county of Eastfold that will take that decision, and the Ministry of the Environment will, if necessary, complain of the memory. What's important is that we see the whole thing in terms of the situation in Lake Van. It must also be assessed in relation to Rygge Airport, without me having taken any decision on the specific matter. That's what I think is important to underline. The specific issue is that of Eastfold, which will be brought on board, and the Ministry of the Environment will, if necessary, be a matter of concern. What I'm busy with, and what I want to do is take responsibility for with the municipalities around, is the holistic situation of Lake Van. I share that commitment with the representative Hansen.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-01.ana.ud1531e1554	Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-01.ana.ud1531e1559	That was the last question in today's Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-01.ana.ud1531e1570	There is no record.
