ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-24.ana.ud672e27	The called alternate of the South-Trøndelag County, Ola Røtvej, has taken the seat. The representative Siri Hall Arnøy applied for sick leave from 24 November until further notice. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The application shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The vara representative, Christian Holm, is called to meet during the leave period.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-24.ana.ud672e55	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today and tomorrow – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Øyvind Halleraker. – Other proposals are not available, and Øyvind Halleraker is considered unanimously elected president of the Stortinget meeting on Wednesday and Thursday. The representative Signe Eye will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-24.ana.ud672e62	I will be allowed to promote the following private proposals by the big business representatives Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen, Reidar Sandal, Sigvald Oppebøen Hansen and myself on the introduction programme for foreigners working as religious ministers in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-24.ana.ud672e67	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-24.ana.ud672e88	On Monday the Stortingen received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the following members of the Government would meet for oral Question Time: State Council Erna Solberg State Council Hilde Frafjord Johnson State Council Kristin Clamet The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, would like to ask questions of substance. – We'll start with the first main questions from Reidar Sandal.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-24.ana.ud672e107	I have a question for the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs. Someday it has been fought in many municipalities. Much of the populace's hard to sew together the budgets for next year. The emergency community is in danger of having to lay down 62 sick homes. In Gauls, the cultural sphere must be deflected. In small Gildeskaal municipality, over 20 can add to the missing job. This is not a dry number. It's not bureaucratic either. It's very serious, and it's about welfare services. The case concerns the provision of education and care for the elderly around our municipalities, and there is no need to misunderstand them. That's why I ask: why won't the Council of State Solberg take on the seriousness of the news from all over the country that welfare services are being weakened? Why won't the Council of State go to school and care for the elderly instead of giving tax reliefs to the richest?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-24.ana.ud672e114	This government has in four years increased the welfare arrangements and service provision in public by 48 billion kroner, while providing tax relief of 23 billion kroner. In fact, this government believes that it is important to provide tax incentives to improve the investment and development climate, which also means that we have more money available to improve services in the municipal sector in the years to come. It is absolutely right that there are difficult economic times in many municipalities. But there are also many points of light. I was recently in Drammen, where the rapporteur told me that he had now been able to open the 18 hospitals that they had to close when the Workers' Party headed the municipality in 2002. In addition, they increased by five new hospitals because they had done a spin-off in their municipality, and they had gone from $87 million. NOK in deficit to approx. Eighty million. kr in profit. This means that there are a number of municipalities that are able to reverse a difficult economic situation that has built up over many years, where consumption has been higher than that in the municipal sector. That is good, not least on the basis of the fact that the financial structure of municipalities for 2004 is the economic structure that gives the most growth in free income for the municipal sector over the last 20 years. It is that with the budgetary settlement that has now been reached in the Storting, much of the tax failure that has been observed during the year will be reversed, causing some of the burdens that some municipalities have had, which have budgets that were higher than the revenue that had gradually become, to be relieved from it. I think that's actually good, because if there's one thing that's hard to deal with in the municipal sector, it's having one economic starting point from which you make the budget, and the income side then falls. Then you'll have problems balancing over the year.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-24.ana.ud672e121	I have to thank the Council of State for the answer. The Minister of Local Affairs is very low-level in relation to the problems that exist in a very large number of municipalities. Ho polemizes, as usual. One spokesman says that older people, sick people, and young people will get it even tougher. We're in a situation where we're going from cutting services to cutting them out. We cannot accept that silently, he says, adding that there must be an end to the construction of schools, care and other important services in Norwegian municipalities. This is the Spokesman None of Etne's words. He represents Right, as the Council of State knows. My question is: does not the spokesman in Etne give a credible picture of the daily lives of the municipalities, or does he talk to the better-known?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-24.ana.ud672e134	I believe that we have a great deal of understanding of the financial challenges in the municipal sector. Therefore, it has been very important for me to give the clear recommendation to the municipal sector that when the 2004 budget became much better through the agreement with the Workers' Party last year, this should be used to bring about a better balance, precisely in order to avoid shifting the welfare tasks ahead and getting new, major difficulties. At that time, the representative Reidar Sandal chose to criticize me for it. Instead of focusing on balancing in the municipal sector, so that in the long run no more cut here, Reidar Sandal used a Questionnaire last year to criticize me for giving that recommendation to the municipal sector. I think it is quite important that we understand that there must be a better balance between income and expenditure in the local government sector. Then there's a redistribution between municipalities, like, among other things. affects Etne. Some municipalities that have had a higher average income per. The population, and therefore has had the opportunity to have a better level of service than other municipalities, is now involved in a redistribution such as, among other things, Reidar Sandal's party agreed with us when we were in opposition that it was necessary to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-24.ana.ud672e143	There will be four follow-up questions – first Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-24.ana.ud672e146	Despite the fact that the free revenues of the municipalities increased by over NOK 2 billion as a result of the Workers' Party's pressure in the budget agreement last year, 121 municipalities are now under state control. There have never been so many. Even with increases resulting from the budgetary agreement with the Progress Party, the free revenues of municipalities will increase next year by only as much as the government itself has estimated are the increased costs, as a result of changes in the population. In other words, the economic situation in Kommune-Norway will be even more difficult next year. This is a question of values. You can make political choices. You can choose to strengthen your school offer for our children. One can choose to strengthen care for our elderly. One can choose to strengthen the cultural offer in the municipalities, or one can choose to give the same money in tax bills to those who have the most. Is the Council of State aware that there is no need for nature, rather a national economic necessity, that Norwegian municipalities have to cut the offer, but that there is a question of a political choice – when the Government chooses a tax lighter than welfare?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-24.ana.ud672e164	Now I have the long memory that I remember that Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen has been Minister of Finance. In fact, I remember the demonstration trains and the calls from the Norwegian municipal sector against Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen as Minister of Finance. Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen also knows very well that the accumulated imbalances in the municipal sector have a long history. There are more municipalities on the ROBEK list now than they have been in the past. It is primarily due to the fact that there has been a failure in tax revenue, which makes it difficult to plan. What is worrying is that there are 60 municipalities that have been on this list ever since Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen's time as Minister of Finance, and never get out of it. That's the biggest concern I have, the municipalities that can't get out of a difficult economic situation. So it's like there's never been any more students in Norwegian cultural schools. From the next harvest there are 12 hours more lessons for Norwegian children in primary school. This means that we also focus on better services through the municipal sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-24.ana.ud672e174	Per Sandberg – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-24.ana.ud672e177	I agree with the Council of State that the municipal sector has never had so many funds available. I also get a little hint about the black paint that the Workers' Party is doing, which I believe in the long term will create a negative reputation and in itself will be negative for the local government sector. In fact, there are municipalities that come out of this list. Among other things, I have had a conversation today with the rapporteur in Ullensaker, who is very pleased with the settlement on which the Government and the Progress Party agreed. This is probably a municipality coming out of the list. So there are also points of light. But to the question to the Council of State. There are municipalities that, no matter what action we take in relation to the income system, come out negatively. Malvik municipality in the South Trøndelag is one of these municipalities. We have to do something for some municipalities that get negative, no matter what action we have to take. My question will then be: What measures can the Council of State take to ensure the provision of services in these municipalities as well, which are largely municipalities in growth?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-24.ana.ud672e186	As far as the municipalities of growth are concerned, it is a particular theme for the income committee that we have set up. The municipal income system should be reviewed to see whether it is necessary to make special adjustments to the income system of the municipalities. We've done a couple of things related to this during this period, for example. count persons closer to the financial year than has been done in the past. I would like to stress that during 2004 and 2005, the Norwegian municipal sector will have a real growth in free revenues of NOK 7 billion. In addition, the total income input to the local government sector is going to be NOK 11.5 billion in growth. So we're not going to say that we're not spending money on the local government sector. We've never used that much, and the growth has never been that big.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-24.ana.ud672e195	Karin Andersen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-24.ana.ud672e198	When the municipal minister talks about municipal economy, she gets everything to be heard as a single account and a spreadsheet. But this is actually about completely different things. There are now people in Norway who wonder: do I get the home help I need? Do I get a sick home place? There are parents who know that their children are not given appropriate training or a school that is good enough to give the child an optimal chance in his or her life. The government doesn't make this a value question, whether these are the most important things, but it makes it a purely arithmetic issue, where municipalities are going to make their budgets go up. It's like the greatest political virtue in the world. Then I need to ask the Council of State: the result of the government's policy is that fewer people will be given a sick home place for the next year, fewer students will have to adapt their training to the next year. Why does the Minister for Local Affairs think it is right that fewer people should meet their needs?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-24.ana.ud672e207	I disagree that there are fewer who are going to have a sick home, and fewer who are going to adapt to education next year. Every year, the municipal sector, the Municipal Councils' Central Association, makes an overview of the advicers' proposals, and then we base all our policies and discussions here in the Chamber on it. Every year it does not end up as the result in Norwegian municipalities. I want to underline it. It's actually not like that. I agree that it is a value question whether we should ensure that we have a good welfare and good public services. It is a matter of value that we also make sure that we have money for it in the future. When, for example, Prioritising the implementation of some tax reliefs and introducing a better and more motivating tax system for economic development in the years to come, it is precisely in the interests of me to take on my administrative responsibility, which, as a Conservative, I am committed to, in order for the next generations to have an equally good society. Unfortunately, SV is talking about value issues, but at the same time they dare not take that debate, because they have said that they will not increase taxes in the next period.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-24.ana.ud672e217	Magnhild Melting Group Kleppa – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-24.ana.ud672e220	The council says she's got a long head start. I'm going to assume that she is also aware that the situation in the municipalities, the relationship between the tasks that the municipalities have today, and the means that they have at their disposal, are actually worse and not better, as the council tries to produce it. Dry figures tell of a sharp increase in deficit in the time when Erna Solberg has our Council of State. For the Center Party it is a choice of value to secure a good and free school and a worthy care, and that there is a cultural school offer in all municipalities. Our response to parents who are struggling to secure a good enough supply for their disabled children, and to the elderly who are now troubled because they do not get the care they need, is: We want a plan to ensure consistency between tasks and resources in the municipal sector. There is also something KS is asking for. Is there something that the Council of State has completely disregarded?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-24.ana.ud672e227	So the deficits have increased. Some of it is wanted by this assembly, and it is the result of a very high investment, both in school buildings and in the care package. Therefore, the KS and the Ministry of Local Government do not use deficits as an indicator of the situation in the local economy, but what is the difference between having 3 pst. in operating result. When this sounds technical and difficult, it is because it is important to assess whether there is a difficult economic situation or not. In 2003, we concluded our consultations that there was a lack of DKK 5.5 billion to balance the municipal sector. So we increased the free income considerably, so at the end of this year we should have reduced that difference to approximately. $2 billion, if the assumptions that were contained were correct. That is why we are in a plan to achieve an improved balance, but no government can plan each budget or enter into agreements over the next four to five years.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-24.ana.ud672e234	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-24.ana.ud672e237	I would like to ask the Minister of State a question. In the VG on 22 November, we got an idea of the challenges faced by the Police Foreign Office, in particular with regard to the registration and identification of the flood of asylum seekers still coming to Norway. The first ten months of this year it was only 6.2 pst. that had passports, and only 16 pst. had other documents that provided an indication of identity. The rest, i.e. over 80 pst., had no identification or had corrupted their identity papers. Many refuse to cooperate. Every day asylum seekers are exposed in their attempts to misrepresent their origins, of course in order to train returnees. In the last month, almost every fourth person seeking asylum in Norway was found in the European fingerprint base. It is said that an asylum seeker who has been rejected and does not leave the country within specified deadlines is no longer an asylum seeker, but a foreigner who is residing illegally in the country. Do the Councils agree to this? What will the Government now actively do to further limit the influx of asylum? [[The President clubs.]] What tools will the Government provide the Police Foreign Unit to reinforce the efforts to expose false asylum seekers?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-24.ana.ud672e249	The President must ask that we observe the speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-24.ana.ud672e252	There is no doubt that the lack of identity papers is one of the main challenges we face, both in terms of reducing the processing time for asylum seekers and in terms of getting them out to. There's no doubt that we have to try to find better tools. But finding better instruments is not very easy either. In fact, most European countries are struggling with this, and this is one of the issues addressed more and more in international contexts. One of the decisions taken in Schengen is that we have to have a common visa database, where we have to have biometric data inside. It will therefore mean that with regard to those who have received a visa to a Schengen country and who are jumping off and becoming asylum seekers, we will have a new tool to find out who they really are, because then we will have this new computer system to look into. The United Kingdom has made it criminal, that is, it has made it criminal to go into the country without identity papers. I've said that I'm going to evaluate the results, because it's not sure that it's really going to help. But once they've had it legalized to go for a period, it can actually prove that taking a shorter sentence because you didn't bring identity papers is such a small burden for some of those who come without, that they're willing to take that punishment. But I've said that I'm very open to discuss, among other things. the question, based on the results of the United Kingdom. It is important to underline one thing in that legislation, and that is that if you have a clear reason to travel without identity papers, you will not be punished for it either. So if you have a real asylum application, if you come from a country where it is difficult to get identification papers and documentation, you will never be punished. We have to include that, because it's still so that for some of those who are actually persecuted in the world, it won't be possible to have papers written out at their national authorities, precisely because they're persecuted and in opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-24.ana.ud672e263	I'm glad to hear that the Council of State is at least assessing tightening. There is great reason to believe that many of these false asylum seekers are also allowed to stay and then Norwegian citizenship. We have recently had this confirmed, among other things. through the so-called Osman Omar Osman case, or Latif, who has now apparently admitted to having contributed to the killing of his own wife, Marita Stroem, from Namsos. There are also doubts about the identity of individual family members. This means that in the wake of an uncritical influx of asylum, an uncritical and cumbersome residence permit and citizenship are also given on cheap sales. The majority voted yesterday in favour of a proposal from the Progress Party on greater demands for Norwegian citizenship. This was just the Advance Party that voted in favour. My question to the Council of State is: When the Citizenship Act is to be revised, can we expect the Government to tighten the sale of Norwegian citizenship?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-24.ana.ud672e274	I must be allowed to say that I do not benefit from any of the descriptions now given, linked to the fact that there is going to be any sale of citizenship in Norway. It's like that, and it's going to be like that in the future, too, that if there's any doubt about identity, you shouldn't give citizenship. It's actually that if there's any doubt about identity, you don't have to give residence. This is one of the reasons why some people who have been on reception in Norway for a very long time and who have not been able to clarify their situation have been refused, but they have provided 11–12 different identities. We've said that we can't give people permanent residence in Norway if we don't know who they are. So I can't believe that there are many people who have been accommodated on a false basis. But it is clear that there are many purchased documents in this world. There are many good falsifications of documents, so even people who come with IDs that seem to be in order may have a different identity. So it is now fully possible to withdraw both residence permits and citizenship under the law. That means that if they've got it on fake premises, it can be waived, and it's still going to be like this. But the Norwegian requirement that the Progress Party promoted yesterday, I doubt would have any significance for this particular matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-24.ana.ud672e281	There will be three follow-up questions – first Torbjørn Andersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-24.ana.ud672e284	My follow-up question goes to the Minister of State. It is, as the municipal minister says, a major problem that an increasing number of asylum seekers arriving in Norway are deliberately hiding their identity in order to make expulsion and repatriation more difficult for Norwegian authorities. The majority of asylum seekers therefore speculate about lying and misrepresenting their own background and identity, and that is, of course, in order to be as far as possible in the country. The head of the Foreign Affairs Department, Knut Holen, confirms this in an article in the UK on Monday 22 November, where he writes: ‘Without a secure identity, it is not possible for the police to send anyone out of the country.’ But I don't think the Council's answers to the previous questions were particularly satisfactory, so I would like to ask the question: Will the Council consider ensuring that asylum seekers who deliberately make identification difficult are either put in prison or placed in closed reception and not treated their asylum applications until they will cooperate to reveal their own identity, as is now the case in the United Kingdom, which the Council of State was in place?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-24.ana.ud672e298	In fact, we also put people in prison in Norway if they do not deliberately help to clarify their own identity, if you think they are not cooperative. There have also been examples of this. Among the twelve people who had eaten away their fingerprints in order not to be able to get identification through the Eurodac system, were actually imprisoned until the skin on their fingers had grown out again. But there is a limit to how long we can do it, and that limit is part of the European Convention on Human Rights that we have acceded to. In the past, Norway has been criticised for too long custody prisons, and we have had cases with people who have been sitting for up to a year in Norwegian prisons in the 1990s, and who ended up putting on their own and their cell – a rather traumatic act, outside Bergen. I want to say that it is so that many lie. Some people are told to lie. It's actually the way we sometimes find out, that some people lie about stories where their own original stories would be just as good for staying in Norway, and that's a cross of thought.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-24.ana.ud672e305	The right to asylum is enshrined in the Refugee Convention, a convention to which Norway has acceded. It therefore gives Norway an obligation to treat all people seeking asylum and to provide them with a fair treatment throughout the course. Last year, the Government had a goal of reducing the number of ‘groundless asylum seekers’ or asylum seekers with a non-asyl basis. This was agreed by the whole Stortinget. But this year it is clear that the government has changed its course by going in to bring down the number of asylum seekers, and that it is the main objective, not – in other words – to follow up the Refugee Convention properly, as we have actually committed ourselves to. We're doing this by becoming the strictest in the class. One of the ways we do it is, as Erna Solberg has kind of pushed through, saying that all the people who haven't received the final rejection, and who don't voluntarily travel back, can be thrown on the street, without food and right to food and roof over their heads. This is the top of everything. What will Erna Solberg do to provide a human treatment?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-24.ana.ud672e312	The previous questions are related. What happens is that when people don't clarify their identity, don't work together to get new identity papers from their own embassies, there's a group that is then impossible to broadcast, just because countries won't accept them, if they don't volunteer to get new documents and want to leave. Then it is important to give clear signals that we do not accept it, for example. Because some of the countries where we have problems with this are large countries of migration. There are countries where there is a mixture of asylum problems and persecution, and where there are also large areas where it is not. So we have the system that I go through every single case from these areas, where they come from, and make a decision in line with the law made here in Stortinget. So the people who have been given no are not right to stay, and then we also have to be very clear on which signals we send out, that you have to return. So it's not that people don't get help. It's clear, and it's also prepared by the Government, that everyone who's here has a right to emergency aid, but we're going to stress that people are going to go back. If not, we're just going to get bigger problems.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-24.ana.ud672e319	Sign Eye - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-24.ana.ud672e322	There are now a lot of unresectable asylum seekers in this country, and many of them have gone underground. They're thrown out of reception, and we've really come up in a very unsustainable situation. Now the municipal minister says that this is the responsibility of the municipalities. This means that instead of having one asylum policy in this country, we will have one in each municipality that will have to deal with this problem. Erna Solberg has sent letters to the municipalities about how to deal with this situation. But the signals sent are very unclear. There are still questions like: Do the municipalities have responsibility for getting houses and food one night? Are they responsible for getting it for a month? What does the municipal minister actually mean by the circulars she has sent out?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-24.ana.ud672e330	It is the Stortinge that gives laws in this country, and we have a law on social services, and a clear policy has been developed, that emergency aid should also be given to people who have illegal residence in the country. That's just what we've underlined to the municipalities. We only have one asylum policy in Norway. Unfortunately, there are representatives from some municipalities who signal that they have a different asylum policy, among others. by the representative of the Party of Øyes. I think it would have been okay if all the parties were behind the fact that people who have been rejected should leave the country. It's not the responsibility of the municipalities. It is actually the responsibility of each asylum seeker to leave. It's actually also part of the conventions we're linked to, that people who have been denied leave the country. It is part of the international conventions that the High Commissioner is under severe stress in meeting with other countries, that all countries are obliged to take back their own citizens if they are residing illegally in other countries. It's one of the most important things we're working on getting better deals about. But we have to be very clear if we don't want even greater influx of people we can't return. We need to have one asylum policy from all parties behind today's asylum policy, also locally.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-24.ana.ud672e339	We move on to the next main question – Rolf Rikvam.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-24.ana.ud672e342	I want to challenge the Minister of Education about the resource situation in school. When addressing the stock issue of the resource situation in the school, there was a tendency that there was a stable supply of resources up to approx. 2002. As of 2002, there was a decrease in trends. The average number of pupils in the groups has increased from 2001 to 2004 by about 2 %. 1 student, from approx. 16,5 to 17,5. It's the development of the period that Kristin Clement has been Minister of Education. KS has gone out and asked the municipalities about the situation for 2005. One third of the municipalities have been asked. What we see is that 85 pst. They're adding up to cutting the school's resource situation. I assume that this does not concern the Minister of Education, based on what Erna Solberg has just said. This may be an adjustment, a better balance between revenue and expenditure. That's maybe what a adds up to. But the question of Kristin Clemet is, Is this a desirable development? Is it desirable that municipalities spend less on education?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-24.ana.ud672e353	It's recurring, when we discuss school policy, to discuss the resource situation in Norwegian school. I have to take it as a sign that the opening up of the major content reform and the knowledge promise that is now to be carried out in Norwegian school is great. With regard to the resource situation, I know the survey to which the representative Rikham refers, which is a survey of some local councillors. As the municipal minister has just said — there are several such surveys, with advisers, trade unions, etc. That's rarely the result, because we don't have technocracies, but democracy in our municipalities. The most reliable thing we have to do when it comes to resource use in Norwegian school is, first of all, the number of dollars per person. students increase. The last figures we have come from COSTRA in the spring, for the 2003/04 school year. There you can see, whether you're looking at primary, secondary, general or professional, that the number of dollars per person. students increase by 7–8–9 pst., i.e. a rather significant increase in resource use per year. student. At the same time, during this four-year period, this government has made sure that the number of hours spent in childhood increases by twelve, after my part of the 1990s has tried to increase the number of hours without success. Number of teachers per year Students are at the top of the world. Probably we're the world's highest in teacher's density. That situation is fairly stable. The most important thing in school policy is what we do on the content page. The representative, Rikham, is aware that we are now developing new teacher plans, and that a historical lift of competence, of the amount of NOK 2-3 billion, will be implemented to equip up the skills that teachers have, not only in the field, but also in the field of adapted training, which some people have had in the past in the questionnaire, as if it were something that is now becoming less of. There has been an ideal in Norwegian school since the 1930s, and there has been a judgment on what has been achieved up to now, in the context of the evaluation of Reform 97. That's what we're now going to try to do, with the violent promise of competence that is now to be carried out.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-24.ana.ud672e366	This was drawing a picture of education that was quite surprising compared to what we now see. It is true that there are advisers who have presented their budget proposals and they propose cutbacks. They are the ones who are sitting and working on it, and then it's the local politicians who are going to work on it. But the fact is that councillors have to propose cutbacks in the education sector. We have to deal with that. There may, of course, be changes. But when 85 pst. By the councillors they say they have to start cutting even within education, it's a danger signal, and it's pretty serious. Although one might say that the situation has been good, or what one might think, one at least sees now that one starts to cut, and a kutter dramatically. The picture that parents draw from the situation around Norwegian school — school construction, educational material, etc. – is not entirely in line with what Kristin Klemet is now trying to present that as. It's a resource crisis in Norwegian school. There are problems in funding a good education system, and I think that the Council of State should be a little more humble and take inward. I simply feel that she is not taking inward what is about to happen in school.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-24.ana.ud672e375	I listen to and read about all the examples and surveys of resource development in Norwegian school. But what I have experience for now, after over three years, is that it's not going to be a fascination, it's not going to be the result. So the last phase we have comes from the COSTRA numbers, which are, of course, the most reliable we have in terms of resource development, and there's an increase in the number of dollars per. student. That doesn't mean I have any guarantee for the future, because it's the municipalities that decide at the seventh and at the last how to prioritize school. But the experience so far is that resource use is increasing, and Norwegian municipalities, at least financially, give high priority to school. In school construction, there is also a lot of money now in connection with the loan scheme implemented over eight years, where 15 billion are to be spent, and where we are ahead of the form. But talking about a resource crisis in Norwegian school I really have to say is an inventory of the situation. Norway uses the most resources in the world. We can only compete with Denmark and the United States. The United States is not directly comparable. What is interesting in Norway is that we do not have results related to this resource use. It should also interest the opposition when discussing school policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-24.ana.ud672e386	There will be four follow-up questions – first Øystein Djupedal.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-24.ana.ud672e389	What's most interesting when you discuss these questions with the Right, is the continuous debatability of the problem, that everything is good, that shows all the numbers the department has, but we have to follow closely, this is the situation, and the situation is really very good in Norwegian school. What's interesting is that reality is very different from a state council bill to a classroom, to a catheter. It's a sense of reality that's obviously in disharmony. I think it was former Prime Minister Jan P. Syse who said you don't get any more of less. That's a good example for the school. With regard to this promise of knowledge that the Council of State is now talking about, where will it be if there is no money in the municipalities to implement it? Why is it that the municipalities went with NOK 3.4 billion in deficit only on lost tax revenue last year, and with over NOK 2 billion last year? This means that the municipalities have less money available to the school. Of course, many municipal politicians give as much priority to the school as they have the opportunity to do, because these are the people who are involved in the school. But basically, they give the framework conditions biging and government now giving to the school, worse conditions than it was before. I have to say that I would have appreciated it once to hear a councillor say, "Yes, I agree, we won't detract from this, we're trying to make this promise together." Unfortunately, however, this government has as a policy that municipalities should have less money, no more.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-24.ana.ud672e398	The President didn't see a question, but the Council of State might be able to clarify it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-24.ana.ud672e401	That was a statement, President.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-24.ana.ud672e406	I don't want to trivialize it, but it sounds like Øystein Djupedal contests what I'm saying, namely that the COSTRA figures show that it's a resource increase per. student in Norwegian school from 7-8-9 pst. That's the facts I have to stick to. As far as de minimis is concerned, I am more surprised at how the opposition, by being constantly concerned with the resource situation, devalues what is the biggest problem in Norwegian school, namely that almost one fifth of the students are not really able to learn to read and write properly, that there are major social differences in Norwegian school, that Norwegian school seems to reproduce differences instead of reducing them, that we are not able to get students properly through advanced education, that there are fractions and concerns in school that students report disrupting education, that since the 1930s we have not been able to get adapted to training even though it has been an ideal, and despite the fact that we have the world's highest resource use. It is now referred to internationally as the Norwegian paradox. There is one more country that has the same problems – we also have the Danish paradox. That's what you have to care about, because it turns out that there's no 1 to 1 context, that if you put another $1, you get 1 more customized teaching. It is precisely what is the judgment of Norwegian school through the evaluation of Reform 97 and also the evaluation of secondary education.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-24.ana.ud672e414	Arne Sortevik - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-24.ana.ud672e417	The content of the school is important. Together with the Progress Party, the government has done a good job of doing something about the quality content of the school. But the allocation of resources is also important. The allocation of resources must be fairly similar and predictable across the country. What is important for parents and students is that resources come out and do not disappear on the road via different municipalities and different priorities in different municipalities. The right-hander says they want more of the money to follow the students. The Progress Party has a different funding model and again challenges the Government and the Council of State to look at a different funding model than the one we have and have had so far, and that leads us to this repeated discussion about the resource allocation. The alternative model is that the money follows the student in its entirety, so that it will not be up to local municipal authorities to give priority to money that originally comes from the state. Will the Council of State look into alternative funding models?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-24.ana.ud672e424	Here, the government parties and the Progress Party have a slightly different view. First of all, I don't think a money follows the student model, that is, a piece of price finance, from the state and to many hundreds of thousands of different students is so easy to establish. In addition, we are very attached to local democracy, and in order for it to work, large parts of the municipalities responsible for it must be well funded. But when that's said, the systems used in the municipalities show that the municipalities use the same thing in school. The vast majority of municipalities use the same thing, and then there's a small minority that uses much less, and a small minority that uses much more. It is mainly related to demography and other natural conditions, and then a small remnant is political priorities, and that is important. But we're busy with local democracy. We believe that if we are to get a good school, those who are close to the school must engage, and then the financial responsibility must lie with the other responsibility. Otherwise, there will be a breach of total responsibility, and then there will be liability powdering.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-24.ana.ud672e429	Eva M. Nielsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-24.ana.ud672e432	We have now heard the Council of State say that there will be a historic lift of competence. Now both parents and teachers fear that these are just empty words. We have also heard the Council of State say that in Norway we have had a teacher's density that is at the top of the world. I notice that the Council of State uses the expression teacher density in the world summit. My question to the Council of State is: how will the Council of State monitor and monitor the situation, so that we don't get a school where there are more students in each class, that there are fewer teachers, and that we get a school where we're still at the top of the world in terms of teacher density?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-24.ana.ud672e441	So the historical commitment to competence that we are talking about is to spend NOK 2-3 billion on strengthening the competence of teachers, instructors and school leaders in Norwegian school, to which the Workers' Party has joined in the treatment of the message "Culture for Learning". When we can say it's historical, it's because it's approx. Ten times as much as the Workers' Party used when they introduced Reform 97, and probably even much more than in the context of Reform 94. In the first state budget, even before the reform is implemented, we have proposed that we should spend 700 million. kr on that reform, of which 500 million. kr shall contribute to the development of competence. In fact, I have not heard a single person who has thought that it is too little in the first year – rather on the contrary. Yeah, we're at the top of the world in terms of teacher's density. The reason why I say it's ‘ca.’ is that we compete with Denmark at the nursery. So it looks like Denmark is a little bit ahead of us. There are also some figures from Portugal that I don't have a complete overview of, but as it seems are also high when it comes to teacher's density. But we're approx. At the top of the world. It is relatively stable, with 11–12 students per year. teachers, 10–11 students per year. adults and, of course, a much lower number in the case of secondary education. I think that's fine, because using our resources on teachers is important, because the teacher is the school's most important resource, and that's probably how it's still going to be.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-24.ana.ud672e450	Rune J. Skjälaa – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-24.ana.ud672e453	In Kristiansand, in the year 2000–2001, the PP service experienced that about 300 fewer children needed special measures, which are in line with the way we think in the Stortinget, that there should be room for each student in the regular training course. In the last two years, the number of children in need of additional measures and decisions in Kristiansand has increased by 330. My question is: is the Council of State comfortable with a development in which the school is drained for resources so that more students are pushed out of the regular training and referred to the PP service, as is now the case in Kristiansand?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-24.ana.ud672e460	I don't really know if it helps to answer here, because now I have said – I don't know how many times – that the school is not being tapped for resources. So if we stick to primary school, we're going to increase resource use per. students from 2002–2003 to 2003–2004 from SEK 59 031 to DKK 63 469 per year; student. It's an increase of 7.5 pst. So you can't talk about draining resources. But that I am not satisfied with the way special education is done in Norwegian school, or with the lack of adapted training, I believe that I am emphatically shown and documented in the message I have been promoting, which the Stortinget has addressed, where there is a proposal for a national and comprehensive effort to get to this with adapted training better. These include: on better use of PPT and all of this, but it is not least about strengthening the competence of our current and future teachers in the field of adapted training. It is the judgment of the Reform 97 evaluation that Norwegian students are treated as non-existent average students and that they are not sensitive to the diversity and diversity of the student groups.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-24.ana.ud672e467	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-24.ana.ud672e470	I think it is necessary once again to remind you of the situation in the municipalities. In fact, in a short time, both the expression ‘municipal economy’ and ‘tax entry’ have been part of the vocabulary of ordinary people, and they see the connection with failing provision before school and care. In Time, there is now a proposal to cut 28 settings. This applies to both the school and care sectors. In Strand there is a proposal for cut of 9.5 million. kr. There may be two piles of dust, and seven settings will be removed in one of the prepressed care services. The skis and the Notodden are mentioned earlier today, and even in Bærum, the search light has now been cut in the school and care sectors. Jan Tore Sanner, Vice-Chairman of the Right, said straight to the Evening Post yesterday, 'The municipalities don't need more.'
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-24.ana.ud672e478	I agree that having an unsafe local economy is a challenge. The last three years have seen a failure in tax revenue. Over the past 12 years, it has been such that in nine of these years, the municipal sector has gained from being dependent on tax revenue. There are a number of examples of years, by 2001 at the latest, where the tax gain for the municipal sector was over DKK 3 billion. So this is related to the Norwegian economy. It's related to the fact that there's less tax revenue, because there's less activity. The gradual growth of activity we now see – shifting from being pessimistic to being optimistic – will give both the state and the municipal sector higher tax revenues in the years to come. But it is clear that there is a basis for discussing whether such uncertainty and imbalances can be associated with tax revenue. I have taken that up with KS in our consultations to get a discussion about whether they want a change in the principle that the municipalities should have 50 pst. of its income from taxes. They have given clear signals that it is an ideologically important position for the municipal sector that they should have tax revenues. We've asked the income committee that's been reduced to see if we can find some buffer schemes for these large shifts in tax revenue, both on the plus and the minus side. Nor is there any doubt that no one in the local government sector asked questions about the instability of the tax revenues over the nine years the result was plus, but you ask questions about it when it gets minus. I understand that, because it makes it very difficult to plan. It is difficult to ensure that a deficit situation does not arise when a budget based on some assumptions is provided and some of the income assumptions fail significantly.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-24.ana.ud672e487	I have a lot of understanding that, in today's situation, municipalities have seen the search light on failing tax revenues. If Erna Solberg is not aware of the consequences of this in the individual municipality, I would urge her to read the locals more carefully than she seems to do, and I would also urge her to listen to her own local people. Then I would also ask the council to comment on another aspect of the municipal budget. It is true that in all private enterprises the operating result is important. That's what tells you what room you have in the years to come. It is the bottom bar itself. The operating result in the municipalities is clearly worse during this government. Isn't there a caution that the Government should take more seriously than it has done so far?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-24.ana.ud672e494	Yes, it is true that the operating result has deteriorated in recent years. This is due, inter alia, to: The lack of tax revenue is due to the fact that the municipalities are as dependent on the economic development of this country as the state and each of us are. If there is high unemployment, if there are major problems, and if the companies move out, the municipal sector is as badly hit as the rest of us will be. Nor is it possible to protect the local government sector from this, because it accounts for most of the public consumption in Norwegian society. Therefore, it is important that we ensure that we have good framework conditions for business, in order to have a good municipal economy in the years to come. I don't have any problems reading local viewers. I read many, and I understand that failure in tax revenue is a problem. I have a great deal of understanding of that, and I have just said that. That's why we're looking at how we can do something about the failure of tax revenue, because it's the unplanned thing. In the case of operating results, it is important to be aware that they have improved. Thus, since the worst years of 2002 and 2003, the operating results have improved, among others. because of the fall in interest rates.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-24.ana.ud672e503	There will be four follow-up questions – first the Rune J. Kieslaa.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-24.ana.ud672e506	I have a follow-up question for the Minister of Education. It is difficult to see the government’s high-quality promise at school when one sees the powerful cuts announced in the local school budgets for next year. I'm a little surprised that the Minister of Education in the past is not concerned about developments in school. In Wågå, you're considering leaving three out of five primary schools. In North Aurdal, you consider cutting all the split hours. Swimming pool is being closed, and the swimming lessons are being cut. The municipality of Gaul is now moving, contrary to the Law of Education, to the stage of leaving the municipal school of culture. The municipality had the choice between this and hiring a teacher for a student group. Is this Council of State calling greater freedom of action for the school when it has to be cut in areas by area?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-24.ana.ud672e515	This was probably strictly a follow-up question to a previous main question, but if the council wants to answer, so would it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-24.ana.ud672e518	The principal problem here is that someone, especially if you're in government, has to deal with facts, and that you can't control and judge the whole situation on the basis of examples or small notes in the paper. Here are a few examples that you can't control on the basis of. First of all, an example was given of a municipality that is considering leaving its cultural school. But as the municipal minister mentioned earlier in this questionnaire, there are more students than ever in Norwegian cultural schools. What is the verdict about the situation in Kommune-Norway? Well, there's more students than ever in cultural schools. Another example was mentioned here, a municipality that is considering the closure of schools. Every year schools are closed in Norway and new ones are created. Nordic research has studied the motives for this happening, and it is mainly due to demographic changes, moving, having more or fewer children, etc. It is the municipalities that are responsible for the school structure. If you think that there's going to be a large number of schools, there's a sign of something special, yeah, it was long before my time that the situation was at worst. It was the mid-1990s. Changes in school structure occur all the time. And as I said, in the case of cultural schools, there's no sign of anything else, nationally speaking, than that there's now more activity there than ever. I worry about all the messages that are coming, but I also reserve the right to see what the actual development is.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-24.ana.ud672e529	The President will assume that the following three follow-up questions are follow-up questions to the main question raised. It's not always easy to distinguish between the oral question procedure. Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-24.ana.ud672e534	I would like to return to the Minister of State. I record that the Minister of State and now the Minister of Education are also trying to create a game of numbers. Numbers can be used in different contexts. What is at the heart of the development we can analyse is that the state’s own supervisory authority has placed more municipalities under state supervision than ever before – 121 municipalities – that the survey of the deficit in the municipal sector shows that the deficit is greater than ever before, and that the Stortinge receives a clear feedback from the municipalities that, after several years of significant cuts, they have now reached a level where the cuts address fundamental welfare services. It is true that despite the fact that the Council of State knew about the failure of tax revenue in the municipal sector when she presented the State budget in the autumn, she submitted to the municipalities such a tight financial arrangement that it did not even cover the growth of expenditure as a result of changes in the composition of the population. [[The President clubs.]] Is it not understood that there will be an even more difficult situation in 2005 than what we see today? [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-24.ana.ud672e543	It is not the case that several are subject to supervision by the supervisory authorities. It's not more than seven years since we had a reform, and then, in fact, all the municipalities of the country were under that kind of supervision of the supervisory authorities. The fact that that side has become more is absolutely correct. It'll always be like this. We have had major changes in the income system. Among other things, the Workers' Party proposed it when they joined the government, and we from the Right agreed. This means that there are some municipalities that get their income down somewhat, while other municipalities get growth, because it was an unfair distribution earlier. It's the follow-up to the Rattsø Committee, which was the last year of implementation last year. I have a great deal of understanding that the municipalities that are in that phase have to step down a little bit, and that those who have had much better offers in the past are in a situation where it is difficult in the short term to balance the budgets, and they need some time for that transition. What is worrying We therefore have a group of municipalities as in Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen's reign was on that list and which still stands there. [[The President clubs.]] They worry me.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-24.ana.ud672e550	Lena Jensen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-24.ana.ud672e554	I have a follow-up question for Clmet. The government's fiscal policy is shown in each classroom. About 85 pst. of the municipalities cutting at school. This is serious, because in the past the municipalities have managed to protect the school, but now it is no longer possible. I have here a randomly selected municipality, the municipality of Harstad, which has presented a cost reduction programme with proposals of 1.8 million. kr in general school cut. Four schools are proposed for closure, and it is proposed to increase parental pay and reduce the number of school leavers. In the library sector, it is proposed that two branches should be closed down and that employees should be heavily reduced. This means fewer adults, more children and less organised training. Is it possible for the Council of State to say with his hand that the cuts in the local economy do not go beyond each individual student and the adapted training that any child is entitled to?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-24.ana.ud672e565	I cannot guarantee that all municipalities do a good job in terms of school. We know that. We've done a lot after we got into the offices to get the municipalities to take school development, quality development, adapted training, skills development, etc., seriously, and we're going to do that. The big work is in front of us, so I can't guarantee it. But what I can talk about is how the average resource use is in Norwegian school. I have explained that several times in this change of words. Let me add one thing: it sounds like the opposition thinks there's a one-to-one relationship between tax and welfare. Then one would think that the logical thing for the opposition was to raise the taxes to 100 pst. Because then there would be a huge amount of well-being. I'm sure SV would answer that it's impossible, because it would go beyond the line of work, it would go beyond the ability to locate businesses in Norway, and it would go beyond competitiveness. So it has to be a limit. We don't believe in the static one-to-one relationship in the economy, nor do we believe that there is a one-to-one relationship between resource use in school and the results achieved. Because if it was, Norway should have no problems with either quality or equivalence in education. I'm afraid we do. We have major problems with the use of resources.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-24.ana.ud672e572	Per Sandberg – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-24.ana.ud672e575	We have to change the ladies, so we go back to the municipal minister again. There are considerable variations in the municipality of Norway, and this is, of course, largely due to the priority of each local government, in each municipality. In many labour-participation municipalities, they choose to cut into primary tasks such as school, health and the elderly. This is also done in municipalities with other lot compositions. But when it comes to compensation for tax revenue, we are very happy that the Government joined the Advance Party in compensating for the current year's tax failure by NOK 2.2 billion. So to my question and my challenge to the Council of State. The Progress Party has aired the idea of long-term budgeting, just to increase predictability for the municipal sector in relation to budgeting. It's a little paradox that when tax revenue decreases for the state, it's easy to compensate for them, but when they decrease for the municipalities, it's harder to do it. Therefore, we believe that long-term budgeting will also lead to predictability for the local government sector. So my question is, are these thoughts that the Government and the Council of State can also assess?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-24.ana.ud672e584	The local government sector accounts for approx. 55 pst. of public consumption in Norway. It is important and important welfare services. But it is clear that in a situation where we need to use fiscal policies, among other things. in a business cycle context to ensure e.g.: The fact that the krone price does not rise too much, that interest rates do not rise too much, and that we still have jobs in the country, it is difficult to imagine that one can take out large sectors, such as the local government sector, and say that here we can plan all the income growth in the long term. At the same time, there will be no government that has the ambition to continue to have a competitive business, especially because it is felt that new improvements are proposed in welfare services that impose new costs and that are often given priority over better balance and the other services offered by the local government sector. e.g. The clear priority of the size during this period of reducing parental pay for parents who have children in kindergarten. Then you eat from the pot you could otherwise have used for free revenue within a responsible financial framework.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-24.ana.ud672e589	We are actually at the limit of overtime in relation to the regulations, but the President will allow the last main issue announced, but there will be no time for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-24.ana.ud672e592	I have a question for the Minister of Education. Governments have repeatedly pointed out that Norway is one of the countries in the world that spends the most money on education. But an ECON report has shown that we have had a reduction of 15 pst. in the resource use of secondary schools in recent years, while primary school cuts have been about half. The number of public secondary schools has been reduced by almost 12 pst. in the last four years. Then we have heard that a large-scale campaign of empowerment is announced. So you could say, well, are we going to get fewer teachers that are really nice? Will the Council argue that there is a need for more teachers in school, including: to ensure appropriate training?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-24.ana.ud672e599	I have no evidence whatsoever to say that the answer to the challenge of getting better adapted training is that we need more teachers in Norwegian school. But we need more competent teachers in Norwegian school, who have received better education and more skills development and further training while they are teachers. Otherwise, I just want to say that if the Workers' Party ever comes back to the government offices, they will govern on the basis of KOSTRA's reports and not ECON's. I think we can assume that's what you're going to stick to when you're going to be in charge of school. Finally, the other day, UNESCO presented a report that looked at the situation in the education sector in virtually every country in the world. Norway cut to the top. And what had been measured there was access to education, education, resource use, etc., and then Norway was ranked no. 1st@item: inlistbox But if you also include factors that look at learning outcomes, the average quality, the similarity and equivalence of school students, then Norway is falling on the statistics. This is the main challenge in Norwegian school policy, and no one has been concerned about this issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-24.ana.ud672e606	So, in contrast to what the Council of State says here today, on Monday, a big demonstration was organized in Oslo, under the direction of, among other things. The Education Association, where one of the main slogans was: The students deserve more teachers, not cut in school. Is this signal that students, parents, and teachers are satisfied with the situation in today’s school, or is it such that the Council of State versus parents and teachers has a different understanding of reality? And share the concerns of the state council that today's situation is not compatible with the goals we have set in Stortinget in connection with St.meld. No 30 for 2003-2004, Culture for learning?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-24.ana.ud672e611	I do not know of any research or study in any country that demonstrates that more teachers are now responding to the challenges we face in Norwegian school. On the other hand, I am quite certain that it has something to do with competence, and how we carry out the teaching process, whether in terms of professional competence, skills in adapted training or school management skills. I don't think it's right to say that the students are asking for more teachers either. Rather, there are studies that show almost the opposite, without having to pay too much attention to it, but also students demand more quality in their relationship with teachers, and more quality in their teaching and learning. And then I don't focus on demonstration trains, which were referred to, but on studies done among the students.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-24.ana.ud672e616	The time for the oral question procedure is running out, and we're going over to the ordinary question procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-24.ana.ud672e623	There will be some changes to the list of questions set out, and the President will refer in this context to the overview distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 1, from the representative Olav Gunnar Ballo to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for Development on behalf of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who has been removed. Question 3, from the representative of Thore A. Nistad to the Minister for Agriculture and Food, has been transferred to the Minister for the Protection of the Environment, who is directing him. At the request of the Minister for the Environment, this question is moved and answered before question 15, to be answered by the same Council of State. Question 6, from Mr Ågot Valle to the Minister for Culture and the Church, is postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left. Questions 11 and 12 from the representatives of Bjarne Håkon Hanssen and Rolf Terje Klungland, respectively, to the Minister of Health and Care, are postponed to the next Question Time when the Council of State has left. Question 14, from the representative of Trine Skei Grande to the Minister for Oil and Energy, is postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-24.ana.ud672e643	This question, from the representative of Olav Gunnar Ballo to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for Development on behalf of the Minister for Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-24.ana.ud672e646	I will ask the following questions to the Council of State: ‘The Tibetan monk Tenzin Delek Rinpoche is imprisoned in Lhasa after the Chinese authorities have sentenced him to death. The date of implementation of the death penalty is set at 2 December. What does the Minister of Foreign Affairs do to the Chinese authorities in order to protect the human rights of Tenzin Delek and other Tibetans who are injured due to this. Treatment of the civilian population of Tibet by the Chinese authorities?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-24.ana.ud672e655	Before the Council of State responds, the President will express his satisfaction at the fact that the Council of State is now on the table.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-24.ana.ud672e658	Thank you, President. The Council of State is also satisfied with that. Norway has repeatedly criticised China for the treatment of the Tibetan monk Tenzin Delek Rinpoche. At the eighth round table on human rights between Norway and China in Beijing in June 2004, Norway asked for the lifting of the death sentence against him. The implementation of the death sentence of 2 December 2002 is suspended for two years and the deadline expires, which was also extended by the representative, on 2 December of this year – and not in April, as was stated in the Questionnaire on 4 February of this year. From the Chinese side, it is argued that questions relating to the execution of the death sentence are to be decided by the courts. The vast majority of such judges are converted into prison sentences. At the direction of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Embassy in Beijing now raises the matter again to Tenzin Delek Rinpoche, before the deadline for postponement of the death sentence expires. In the light of the wide international commitment to this matter, we in Norway aim to present our principleal attitude to the death penalty and the view on Tenzin Delek Rinpoches's case together with other like-minded countries. The government is working to strengthen the human rights situation in Tibet. The theme is also central to the contact between the Norwegian and Chinese authorities, including through the human rights dialogue between Norway and China — as I mentioned — where prison-related Tibetan issues are also addressed. Norwegian resistance to the death penalty, the safeguarding of religious freedom and the protection of Tibetan culture are stressed both in our bilateral contacts with China and in multilateral contexts such as the UN Commission on Human Rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-24.ana.ud672e673	I have an additional question. I was given the opportunity to visit North India, and I had talks with the exiled parliament, the exiled government and the Dalai Lama in October as part of a delegation from the Tibet Committee in Norway and the Tibet Committee in the Grand Duchy. I registered that China protested both to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and to the International Secretariat of Storting when we were going to visit. The visit made a strong impression. You get a description of 3,000 refugees a year now from Tibet. We saw drawings of children in which torture of Tibetan monks is made, and some obviously also show torture that has fatal outcome. This is very serious. We know that China will arrange the OL in 2008. My question will be: Will the Government visibly exert pressure on the Chinese authorities to make the protest against human rights violations visible?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-24.ana.ud672e684	We are a central dialogue partner with China in the field of human rights, and we are using that opportunity effectively to address the situation in Tibet. Tibet is a recurring theme both in the dialogue that takes place through these conferences and in the bilateral and multilateral contexts in which we are in contact with China – and where China comes up, for example. in the context of the Human Rights Commission. There is no doubt about the Norwegian commitment to Tibet and respect for human rights. That means it's still going to be like this in the time to the O.L. It is also expressed in international forums, so that Norwegian markers are clear.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-24.ana.ud672e691	I thank you for your answer. I note that in the European Parliament from five political groupings, an opinion which has been subsequently published has been initiated, which is to the extent a thorough listing of concerns relating to both the situation of Tenzin Delek Rinpoche and the possible execution of him on 2 December and the situation in Tibet for the general population. We know that you can deal with China in different ways. One way can be to make it purely diplomatic, without necessarily being heard by the public. But another way can be what you see as an example here, that you publish attitudes you have, and highlight to the public what you're taking away from. One issue that has arisen in the EU is the question of lifting the arms embargo in relation to China. In what way does the Government indicate to China that breaking human rights in China can also have implications for trade?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-24.ana.ud672e702	Now, the questioner begins to go deep into an area of responsibility that belongs to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and, in part, to the Minister for Trade. I think I should be careful to give new signals about Norwegian policy on the consequences of human rights in relation to trade relations. Let me just say quite clearly that on the Norwegian side, there is a significant and heavy commitment both bilaterally and multilaterally to Tibet and respect for human rights. We mark this publicly by mentioning this in articles in the UN, and it is also clear to the Chinese authorities what Norway thinks about this. Now, on behalf of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, I have also announced that we are prepared to take this matter up again with other countries, in other words, in a joint effort. I therefore believe that we are doing what we can to contribute to both respect for human rights in Tibet and to solving Rinpoches' case.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-24.ana.ud672e713	« The fishing industry has been down for several years on the Finnmark coast. The unemployment rate in Vardø has been the highest in the country for a long time and is around 20 pst. Other parts of the economy also lose their operating base. The community is characterized by deep despair. There's been a lot of attempts to get the activity started. Government organisation is necessary. When will the Government address these serious challenges?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-24.ana.ud672e720	The government is well aware of the situation in Vardø. We have a great deal of understanding that people in Vardø experience the great unemployment as very difficult. In addition, the municipality has been in a difficult situation for several years. More than a year ago, the County of Finnmark addressed the challenges of Coastal Finland to the Government. In the answer I sent on behalf of the Government, I explained the current measures. The most important thing the government has done is to improve the general framework conditions. It is this way that the Norwegian economy must have good framework conditions for a state – not least the coast of Finnmark, which is so export-dependent – to go well. This includes, among other things: expressed at a lower interest rate and a reasonable interest rate. Vardø and Finnmark are also part of the action zone. The action zone provides tax, tax and other benefits for the county in excess of DKK 2.5 billion. In addition, the Government has ensured that the differentiated employer’s fee is continued in the county. Today, the fishing industry is even above the mark of overcapacity and low earnings. Consequently, the business structure does not promote profitability, and we are forced to take on board that this will have consequences. Landing of fish does not necessarily mean that this fish forms the basis for value creation at the landing site. However, there should still be a basis for the processing of fish in Vardø, but there is much evidence that this requires conversion and reinvigoration. Development of alternative and more niche production is one of the opportunities that should be explored locally and in close cooperation between business, municipal and county authorities. Aetat is now working on stepping up training activities in cooperation with local forces, and is working on various projects in this area. In recent years, several state agencies have located new jobs to Vardø, among others. The State Pay Guarantee Scheme and the Victim Compensation Office. In addition, the traffic centre for North Norway is also recently located in Vardø. Since 2001, Vardø has had the status of a municipality of conversion. This means an annual contribution up to 2006 of 2.5 million. kr that can be used for business conversion and innovation. In 2004, the total municipality was allocated to about 50 % of the population. One hundred and thirteen million. kr for regional development, of which 20 million. kr is discretionaryly allocated to transfers in the county. Thus, the state contributes to the conversion work on the coast. The use and distribution of regional development funds is the responsibility of the county. The amount received for regional development by Finnmark is significantly higher per year. is resident than for the rest of the country. To reverse developments in Vardø, a joint effort by several actors is required. Whether or not to provide additional funds for the State needs to be clarified later when concrete forward-looking plans are available. I am committed to taking seriously the role of county councils as regional development actor. That is why I have also challenged the County Council to be more specific about what plans you have, and what conversion work you put up in Vardø.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-24.ana.ud672e741	The Labour Party believes that crises of a kind that we now see along the coast of Finnmark are a national responsibility, which cannot be pushed over to the county municipality alone. The Council of State referred to the letter sent by the County of Finnmark on 30 June 2003, where he wrote that the last year had ended bankruptcy or ceased operation at more than 40 pst. by the fishing industry in the county, and that a thousand jobs had been lost. He also wrote that there was reason to fear that development does not stop with it. The County made it clear that this was such a special situation that there was reason to fear that the bottom would fall out of many communities, and that the settlement pattern along the Finnmark coast could be radically changing. There was also a background for the County to call for the development of a State Action Plan covering all sectors affected by these issues. Why does the Government not contribute to the development of such an action plan?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-24.ana.ud672e750	We contribute through the discretionary allocation of development funds to the county councils by giving Finnmark county municipality 20 million. kr to carry out coastal conversion work. We have also given the county council the task of sitting in the driver's seat to schedule the conversion work. In fact, I believe that in line with the decentralisation reform we have implemented – and I understand that the Workers' Party outside this house is very concerned about continuing the symbolism policy around regional levels of government – we must take seriously the fact that the county council's role is to go in and outline what kind of action it will be about. I have been in dialogue with the rapporteur. So far, the dialogue has been about one wish from the county council towards the state, namely to obtain regional fishing quotas. It is a debated theme, also in the representative Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen's party, cf. the coastal manifesto where there is a minority and a majority in the party’s investigation of the issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-24.ana.ud672e759	The county is active in relation to the challenges along the coast of Finnmark. But there is no doubt that this crisis in several municipalities along the coast, and especially in Vardø, is so extensive and so profound that it is not possible for the county council alone to handle it. Therefore, it is important that the State participates actively. The Labour Party therefore believes that this crisis is a national responsibility. Let me also stress that in coastal communities, fishing policy instruments are absolutely necessary to find solutions. These instruments do not fall under the jurisdiction of the municipality, they are the responsibility of the Ministry of Fisheries. I have to again, as strongly as I can, appeal to the Government and to the Council of State to take in the drama of the decline that has been in the population, and the reality that 20 pst. have been available for a long time and help to find solutions to this problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-24.ana.ud672e768	The registered unemployment rate in Vardø is 10.6 p.m. according to the Aetat figure. There is still one of the highest unemployment rates in the country. And there's probably someone who's gone out of work for so long that it could be that they're no longer registered, so that the number of 20 pst. So this could be a right number. It's not that we're not worried about this, but it's actually important to do something more. Once an administrative level has been given responsibility for being the regional development actor, we have to expect that it is the county municipality that actually takes the initiative on which measures, for example, are taken. the State shall contribute. I want a dialogue with Finnmark County Council on the measures that may help reverse the situation in Coastal Finland. We are open to dialogue about that, even to the extent that it should be a question of money. But so far the county rapporteur has said that she has not asked for one more penny. I think that is a heroic effort of a local politician and a state politician. We have an interest in participating, and we are going to participate, but then we have to start by resuming what new types of action might help to change the situation in Vardø. 50 new fishing quotas have been allocated to the Finnish county during the last three years. So it's done a lot to strengthen Finnmark's access to resources.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-24.ana.ud672e783	Question 3 will be answered before question 15.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-24.ana.ud672e789	‘The period of proceedings in the courts is long and the substance of the proceedings is considerable. At a time of limited resources in the courts, it is necessary to think creatively to ease the pressure on the courts. You can, for example: introduce a ‘Decision Discount’ for those who adopt a judgment within 14 days. Another option is to lower the penalty if clearly unwarranted appeals are promoted in criminal proceedings. How does the Council of State address these proposals, and what will he do to reduce the time spent in judicial proceedings?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-24.ana.ud672e796	The average period of trial in the courts has declined from the first half of 2003 to the first half of 2004, both in civil and criminal cases. This is positive. Nevertheless, the objectives set by the courts and the Stortinget have not been met. A number of legislative changes have been adopted in recent years to ensure more rapid criminal proceedings. The emphasis should now be on other measures. I'll get back to this. However, the Ministry of Justice will continue to work to identify the need for legislative changes in order to speed up criminal proceedings. The adoption discount may have a beneficial process economic effect, but also raises difficult questions of principle and practicality that need to be considered in greater detail. This must include, inter alia: consider whether the use of the legal security guarantee contained in the appeal right as a means of exchange for a reduction in penalties is of concern. It is also necessary to consider whether the proposal is compatible with human rights. I will consider the proposal more closely as part of the ministry's ongoing efforts to improve the quality and effectiveness of criminal justice. With regard to the proposal for the imposition of penalties in the event of clearly unfounded appeals, I am initially sceptical of a system that leads to an appeal in an already sentenced sentence because of the use of an important legal security guarantee. In my view, other means should instead be used to prevent too much of the resources of the courts from agreeing to deal with unjustified appeals. The Ministry now assesses whether there is any reason to submit a proposal to amend the rules on silting at the hearing. A possible change may be to extend the possibility of cutting off anchors which are clearly not capable of producing. In both civil and criminal matters, there may be a great deal to be recovered from the organisational side in order to reduce the length of proceedings. The administration of the Court of Justice attaches great importance to this and has launched its own project which will result in concrete actions for the efficient and good use of resources, focusing on good governance, proper organisation and high levels of competence in the courts. The report of the work shall be completed during the autumn of 2005. Furthermore, all courts of first and second instance in 2005 will have access to the new law enforcement system. This will be a milestone in the creation of high-quality, rational and efficient work processes in the courts. The draft new dispute law of the Dispute Settlement Committee also provides for judges to operate much more active civil proceedings than is usual today. The Ministry intends to promote the proposal for a new dispute law for the Stortinget in spring 2005. On 22 October this year, the Ministry of Justice and the Court of Justice organised a joint seminar on criminal proceedings in Norway. Presented at the seminar were central representatives of the courts, the prosecution authority, the ministry, the judicial administration, the police directorate and the law firm. The idea behind the seminar was to achieve a collective reflection with individual contributions to how organisational improvements can be made. I myself was present at the seminar, and experienced a solution-oriented assembly with great willingness to go in. Suitable areas for more productive interaction were identified, and many good ideas were shed. Let me mention someone: the impact of preparatory meetings, i.e.: stakeholder conferences in advance, so as to give more active and structured judicial management of the case the need for regional and local seminars where professional actors in criminal matters can meet the role understanding – awareness of and respect for the role of both themselves and others to make visible the possibilities of the system of acknowledgment rebate – the system must be used more actively than it is today. The participating groups will cooperate closely on the follow-up to the ideas of this seminar.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-24.ana.ud672e831	For my own part, I can say that I look forward to a future trial meeting between the courts and LOVISA. I would like to thank the Council of State for all the good ideas and thoughts about the matter and the issue. Nevertheless, I would have to admit that some criminal cases are being investigated more thoroughly than necessary. As mentioned above, this is also inappropriate. In some cases, the Courts allow the submission of proceedings to the courts. It is important to stress that the individual judge is responsible for the conduct of the process so that unnecessary time and resources are not used. For example, criminal proceedings law opens up. for increased interception of evidence in relation to current practice. It is important for judges to be made aware and educated, as the Council of State also pointed out, in order to be able to steer criminal proceedings in the best possible way. I want to know about the Council of State in special situations that the judge is actually more of a trial leader than a judge.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-24.ana.ud672e842	At the meeting now held in October, which was previously prepared at a meeting in April of this year, all actors, at both meetings, agreed to seek a more active judicial procedure in criminal matters. Everyone agreed. So both the accomplices, the defenders and the court administration all agreed that this could happen at a higher speed, without jeopardising legal certainty. It's quite encouraging when people gather that way and agree on this. One of its core features is the desire for a more active judicial role, where the judge, among other things, can go in and see to it – we say – to cut matters in the way the representative was involved in his additional question. I also responded to this in my main response, namely by referring to possible case-preparing meetings. There was excitement about such thoughts, and this will now be fulfilled by all the actors who were present at the meeting in Trondheim on 22 October.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-24.ana.ud672e853	I allow myself to ask the following questions: ‘The police spend a disproportionate amount of time on the introduction of people who drink/ureurise in a public place and who neglect, for example: bottle puncture. As a result, many police patrols are hesitant to intervene against this type of offense — fear of the consequences of the fact that the police are not present in the streetscape. In the interests of well-being for the general public, it is important to penalise those offences. Does the Council of State feel that this can be made easier by simplifying police oversight in criminal matters?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-24.ana.ud672e862	The Directorate of Police reports that by far the majority of disorder of order and minor offences of the type referred to in the question occur in public places in centres or agglomerations during evening and night and especially during weekends. Often it is not disproportionately long way to a police arrest. In addition, offenders are often drunk. For these reasons, it may therefore appear necessary to remove the person from the street picture and take him or her to the detention centre, or, for that matter, to another place where one can get help in his or her situation and with his or her challenges. To offer the person liable to settle on the spot by adopting a simplified system for harm or drunkenness where the person is still addicted is not reassuring and cannot be done for legal reasons. In this way, I cannot readily see that the use of simplified proposals solves all the challenges that the police are facing in the situations that we are dealing with here. On the other hand, it is natural that we now look closely at what measures can be taken to simplify and streamline police resource use against less serious crimes. The use of simplified presentations may be one of several instruments in this context. NOU 2003:15, From bot to improvement, discusses whether and under what circumstances, if any, the scope for the use of simplified presentation should be extended. A selection has, among other things: look at the issues currently covered by the use of ordinary speech that may change to issues where the criminal reaction comes in the form of simplified speech. The committee has discussed several considerations that need to be taken into account, which can speak both for and against expanding the area of use of simplified facilities in the case of less serious so-called street crime, as the representative Marthinsen mentions. It is proposed by the sample that, inter alia: drunkenness offences, violation of the knife ban and non-compliance with police instructions in public places should be able to be met by a simplified presentation. Furthermore, the sample considers that offences such as sprinkling and urination in public places should be decriminalised and instead sanctioned by means of an infringement fee. The committee's proposals have been consulted and will be further assessed as part of the ministry's work on improving the effectiveness of criminal justice. It is such that the thoughts and challenges that the representative Marthinsen has brought me, too, that I will take with me on the way to that work.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-24.ana.ud672e880	Thank you for the reply from the Minister of Justice. I thought it sounded reassuring and correct. I also think it is right to stress that in the case of people who are excessively drunk or in such a state that they can say afterwards that they did not know what they were doing when they adopted a proposal, there is a problem that is extremely real, and you have to avoid such situations. As the Council of State has pointed out, there may be a good deal of cases other than the serious cases where one is said to be ‘conscious at the moment of the act’, which can get a better solution through the fact that the police do not spend disproportionately long time bringing in, following up the case and looking at a process to obtain the means of possible criminal response. There may be another way of punishing, for example: this ability to perform duties. I hear how the Council of State expresses that this should be followed up. I think it's a right way to go.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-24.ana.ud672e891	Let me add something, because the representative Marthinsen draws a landscape that I think deserves some additional comments. I myself was out with the police in Stavanger in February this year. There was the most concentrated accumulation of intoxicated young people I've seen. It was a concentrated loop of light – it passes through the center of Oslo. But the Stavanger police have a lot of social and healthy sense, so the police drove people home alternately and made sure they came in the door, and they drove people to medical care and made sure they were treated in a sensible way. As the police said, that was clearly what was needed. This is how I have seen the Norwegian police act as – let's call it – the social workers of the nightlife when social services are closed. So they've used wise sense – I think the police do it many times. It could, of course, be as the representative Marthinsen says, that you, for example. in places in the Oslo Centre at certain times must respond, but then one can also be practical: there is no prohibition on bringing a lawyer out. I've arranged for the police to have psychiatrists out, so we can have lawyers on wheels too. We can organize in many ways. I will include in the further work on the Sanctions Committee and the simplification of the criminal reactions in our society the fundamental considerations that the representative Marthinsen has come up with.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-24.ana.ud672e900	I would just like to comment briefly that when Minister of Justice Dørum says that these things he will take with him further and assess in relation to the work that is going on, I know from experience that then things will also be done!
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-24.ana.ud672e905	It is such that an old field priest and an old urban commissioner meet in their ethical obligations in such contexts in the main hall!
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-24.ana.ud672e921	This question has been postponed to the next Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-24.ana.ud672e928	I almost wanted to thank the Minister of Justice for the fine words about Stavanger Police, but instead I'm going to ask the Minister of Education and Research a question, which reads like this: ‘The parents’ committee at Risk Secondary School in Sandnes has pointed out that the school’s budget is so tight that students are left out because there are no teachers to take over the education in case of illness, special education is severely reduced, and sharing hours are reduced significantly. The directive from the local authority on the improvement of indoor climate has been ignored. Does the Council of State consider that it is the responsibility of a municipality not to follow up compulsory education?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-24.ana.ud672e937	It is not acceptable if a municipality does not comply with the Training Act and the regulations given to it. Students shall not be released from compulsory education for budgetary reasons. This would run counter to the same legislation. With regard to the other issues raised in the question, a specific and discretionary test is needed to determine whether there is a breach of the Training Act with regulations. When one considers locally that a relationship is or may be contrary to the Training Act with regulations, the matter should first be checked with the school itself and the municipality. If this does not provide a solution, the matter should be brought to the House. The County is responsible for supervising compliance with the Training Act and may also, on the basis of information obtained on the actual situation, carry out a test of infringement of this Code. If, in such a situation, the county council concludes that the training law has been breached, he also has the authority to instruct the municipality to correct the situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-24.ana.ud672e946	Thank you, I got the answer I wanted!
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-24.ana.ud672e951	It was quick and easy!
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-24.ana.ud672e957	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Education and Research the following questions: ‘The UN Committee on Human Rights has concluded that the partial exemption scheme in the CRL field is contrary to the freedom of parents to provide their children’s religious and moral education. Will the State Council follow up the decision of the Committee by granting full exemption from the CRL subject to students who wish to do so, and is it not important to consider whether the subject should be replaced by a more general and inclusive life philosophy independent of the religious background?’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-24.ana.ud672e966	The UN Committee on Human Rights concludes in its opinion of 8 November 2004 that the partial exemption scheme in the CRL field is contrary to the freedom of parents to provide the religious and moral mission of their children, as expressed in Article 18 of the UN Convention on Civil and Political Rights. When the CRL subject was introduced as a common subject of Reform 97, the intention was to create a general and inclusive subject that could gather all students. The intention was, among other things: the subject should contribute to understanding, respect and tolerance between students from different cultures and religions. The Training Act points out that the subject should be an ordinary school subject which should normally gather all the students and that the teaching of the subject should not be of service. At the same time, exemptions were granted from those parts of the training that could be experienced as an undesirable religious participation. The issue of full exemption was dealt with in all Norwegian courts, and on 22 August 2001 the State was released in the Supreme Court. On this basis, the subject has passed on to the school. Nevertheless, the concern about the subject led to a comprehensive revision of the curriculum and exemption system in 2002, based on St. gemeld. No 32 for 2000-2001 and Innst. S. No 240 to this. It is my impression that there is now relatively great peace around the subject. Of course, once the UN Human Rights Committee has delivered its opinion, we will follow this up by the 90-day deadline. The representative Jensen mentions in his question some concrete ways to do this. I am currently not prepared to draw the final conclusions. The opinion of the United Nations Committee provides a broad assessment of the CRL subject and the exercise of the right of exemption, and this opinion requires a thorough review – in addition to a careful assessment of the measures and their consequences. So I want to use the time that is needed before a decision is made.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-24.ana.ud672e979	I thank you for your answer. I have a great deal of understanding that the Council of State here needs to review and assess and therefore is not prepared today to draw a conclusion. But as the Council of State has now been involved, the opinion of the UN Human Rights Committee is serious, and it is a decision that I believe we in Norway need to put ourselves flat. We need an inclusive life philosophy independent of the religious background, and that's what the Council of State also says in L97. So my question to the Council of State is – although it is not now possible to draw a conclusion – whether she will assess whether the subject will be replaced by a more general and inclusive life-view that is independent of the religious background.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-24.ana.ud672e988	In principle, there are different solutions to respond to the opinion of the United Nations Committee. It can be both about changing the subject, changing the exemption system and its combinations, in principle. When I still need some time to evaluate this, it's because different solutions have different consequences, and because I'm occupied with one thing, which I think everyone in this room is concerned about, namely that we're going to have an inclusive school, where we meet with understanding, respect and tolerance even if we come from different cultures and religions. Only the two questions asked in the Questionnaire today show – probably – that there are shared opinions on how we can get this done, and a little of my challenge is that we can find solutions that will minimise fragmentation, unrest and disharmony in Norwegian school.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-24.ana.ud672e995	My challenge to the Council of State will then be: Will the Council of State assess the Christian life - vision paragraph at school, and will she come back to the Stortinge with a proposal? And then again, when will the answer come from the Council of State? How long will it take to assess and review current CRL education?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-24.ana.ud672e1000	What we are now dealing with is this statement from the UN Human Rights Committee. It's not binding, but it's tradition that we follow up on that kind of statement. I remember that there may also be a case in Strasbourg, and that the case would have a different legal status if it were to be dealt with there. But we are now dealing with this statement, and what is primarily concerned about is the subject as it now appears, combined with the exemption system as it is practised. And that's why I'm saying that the solutions here can be in the subject, in the exemption scheme or in combinations of this. That's essentially what we're concerned about. That is a 90-day deadline, and of course we should deal with it. I don't work any slower than necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-24.ana.ud672e1008	I have a question about the same, but show a different view of the matter. I don't have the assumption that in some way we need to get flat, and then the question that follows to the Minister of Education and Research is: ‘How will the Council of State ensure that the Norwegian school subject of Christianism, Religion and Life-Sighting is continued in Norwegian school as a valuable subject for all students at the same time as the basis of Norwegian and Western tradition and cultural heritage?’ [[CRL subject]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-24.ana.ud672e1015	For natural reasons, my reply to the representative Sortevik will not be so different from the previous answer. The UN Committee on Human Rights concludes in its opinion of 8 November 2004 that the partial exemption scheme in the CRL field is contrary to the freedom of parents to provide the religious and moral mission of their children, as expressed in Article 18 of the UN Convention on Civil and Political Rights. When the CRL subject was introduced as a common subject of Reform 97, the intention was to create a general and inclusive subject that could gather all students. The intention was, among other things: the subject should contribute to understanding, respect and tolerance between students from different cultures and religions. The Training Act points out that the subject should be an ordinary school subject which should normally gather all the students and that the teaching of the subject should not be of service. At the same time, exemptions were granted from those parts of the training that could be experienced as an undesirable religious participation. The issue of full exemption was dealt with in all Norwegian courts, and on 22 August 2001 the State was released in the Supreme Court. On this basis, the subject has passed on to the school. Nevertheless, the concern about the subject led to a comprehensive revision of the curriculum and exemption system in 2002, based on St. gemeld. No 32 for 2000-2001 and Innst. S. No 240 for 2000-2001. It is my impression that there is now a relatively great calm about the subject – I could perhaps add: to now. Of course, once the UN Human Rights Committee has delivered its opinion, we will follow this up by the 90-day deadline. There are different ways of doing this and the content of the subject and the exemption system must be seen in the context. I am currently not prepared to draw the final conclusions on how the Committee's opinions should be followed up. The opinion requires a thorough review — in addition to a careful assessment of the measures and their consequences. So I want to use the time that is needed before a decision is made.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-24.ana.ud672e1030	Thanks for the answer. The UN has several committees and several conventions. The UN Convention on the Rights of the Child, Article 29, initially states: ‘1. The Parties agree that the education of the child shall aim at:’;» and further in subparagraph (c): ‘to develop respect for’...’ the national values of the country in which the child lives’. Is not the phrase ‘developing respect for national values in the country where the child lives’ an emphasis on the importance of CRL as a common value subject? And isn't this formulation, that is, to develop respect for national values in the country where the child lives, important to develop knowledge, understanding and respect among children for their national values? Should it not be included in the assessment of the need to continue the CRL subject, which I believe should be considered?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-24.ana.ud672e1046	You can agree or disagree with the UN Committee on Human Rights. It is a tradition that the Committee has a certain power to define how these conventions are to be understood. But I might have to remind you that it's not my impression that the committee "anfects" the subject and its contents in and separately, but the subject in combination with the exemption scheme. The Committee says well, put a little at the head: you may have which subjects you want, but it must be accompanied by exemption schemes to ensure that this Convention is complied with. Or vice versa: one must have subjects that do not affect the freedom of parents to carry out the religious and moral education of their children. It is clear that there is a difficult field, and we need a little more time to study the opinion and consider different types of solutions, and the consequences of different types of solutions. I think that as Minister of Education, there is reason to stress something that I think is a rather united desire in this room, that we should have an inclusive school, where one meets with a great deal of understanding, and not a school that splits up into disunity and unrest.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-24.ana.ud672e1053	Then it might also be important to look at the exemption schemes. Extensive exemptions can provide exactly what the Council of State would like to avoid. Therefore, the follow-up question is related to the way in which the Council views schemes with full or extensive exemption from a common value subject. In a national situation, as it also experiences our country, where many children with a minority background are to be sought integrated into a Norwegian society through basic education, which is a meeting place for integration, would not exemption from common value education be seen as a desire that integration should not actually be sought, but the exact opposite? And will not a comprehensive exemption also pose a risk of stigmatisation of school pupils?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-24.ana.ud672e1060	I don't want to pre-conclusion, but I think this is a good opportunity, because there are two questions in a row with two different inputs and two different questioners with two different opinions about what might be the solution, to reflect on the dilemma that both solutions, put on the head, can lead to consequences we're not so happy about. Extensive exemptions may lead to much fragmentation, etc. in the individual school, as the representative Sortevik was now involved. A solution such as that outlined in the previous question can lead to a much greater interest in establishing and applying to religious health schools, which are also a form of fragmentation. There are dilemmas about this, no matter what kind of religious attitude you might have, or what you think about teaching religion at school. A Minister of Education is also concerned about the school community and what we are left with by community there. It makes me think this is a little bit difficult, so I want to spend a little more time on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-24.ana.ud672e1068	I have the following questions for the Minister for Fisheries and Coast: ‘Coastal fishermen along the whole country are very upset that the Fisheries Directorate proposes to close parts of the Lofoten for fishing next year. Questions will be asked about the quality of the research report on which this Decision is based. Will the Council of State take any initiative to allow coastal fishermen to fish their main fishing activities for the next year?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-24.ana.ud672e1077	According to the marine scientists, the populations of Norwegian coastal cod are poor. The International Council for the Exploration of the Sea actually recommended zero catches of Norwegian coastal cod in 2004. In view of this, protective measures were introduced for the coastal cod from 1 May 2004. The marine scientists repeat their warnings this year and recommend that coastal cod should not be fished at all in 2005. There is a reasonable dramatic warning of the need for effective protective measures. In other words, the recommendation suggests the need for continued strict protection measures for coastal cod in 2005. As responsible administrators, we must take these advice seriously. It is important for me, as Minister of Fisheries and Coast, to implement regulatory measures that rebuild coastal cod stocks. At the same time, it is necessary that regulatory measures make it possible to maintain coastal activity. It may therefore be necessary, in the interests of the operators, to spend more time rebuilding the stocks than the researchers have recommended. That's what I said in advance of the year's regulations. I have repeated that this year, and the decision I made in 2004 will reflect the desire to preserve both the coastal cod and the concern of coastal fishermen. There is now a consultation on protection measures for Norwegian coastal cod in 2005. The consultation note drawn up by the Directorate for Fisheries proposes more stringent protective measures than this year. The consultation period is set at 1 December 2004. I find it natural that fishermen ask questions about research results that could lead to disruptions in relation to traditional operations. However, as advised by marine scientists, there is reason to believe that there is a need for active protection of coastal cod. Regulations aimed at reducing coastal cod catch will unfortunately have to be noticed by coastal fishermen — unless regulations would have any effect at all. I feel that most people see the need for measures to protect and rebuild the cod, but there is hardly anyone who will take the burden with it. Before deciding what protective measures will be taken in 2005, I will go through the consultation opinions that are coming, and I will listen to any advice from the Board of Regulators on the protection of Norwegian coastal cod. Measures for the protection of Norwegian coastal cod in 2005 are aimed at establishing in connection with the cod regulation in December, before Christmas. As I said, it is important for me, as Minister of Fisheries and Coast, to take protective measures to take account of both the coastal cod and the coastal fishermen.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-24.ana.ud672e1094	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which was as far as I expected, but I have not received an answer to the question of whether there will be peace in Lofoten. Now we have asked questions about the research results. I also ask questions as to whether the cooperation between researchers and fishermen is at the level it should be. My experience with scientists researching the whale, for example, is not very good. We had to spend over 100 million. I want to research the whale back, they say. Then all of a sudden it was there. So my experience with the researchers is, as I said, not very good. Will the Minister for Fisheries and Coastal Affairs take an initiative to improve cooperation between researchers and fishermen, so that we know what we are doing with coastal cod?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-24.ana.ud672e1101	I have to say that it is reasonably high cost that the representative of the Coastal Party believes that we do not know what we are doing in relation to the coastal cod. If the Coastal Party believes that there are no measures to protect the coastal cod, I wonder if that position benefits settlement and activity along the coast. When the researchers recommend zero catches for two consecutive years, it would be irresponsible if we did not take action – there can be no doubt about that. Then we have to admit that it will be a painful process to rebuild the populations. That's what I've been trying to do as little pain as possible, through good cooperation with the fishermen on the regulations of the year. We now have a note out at the hearing, and I think it is reasonable that fishermen should be allowed to express their views, before I draw conclusions, and before the consultation deadline has expired. Pushing the researchers in front of them and saying that the reason for this is that there is not enough cooperation, getting too simple, and I will strongly distance myself from the points of view that come here. The cooperation between the researchers and the fishing industry is good. It can, of course, be improved on any occasion, but it is a good cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-24.ana.ud672e1110	Does Bastesen want a comment?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-24.ana.ud672e1113	Yes, thank you, President, I would like a comment. I asked the Ministry of Fisheries a question about what would be done with regard to the marine mammals, and was told that it was registered in the Ministry of Fisheries that there was a debate in Stortinget. Has not the Minister for Fisheries come to the conclusion that there is a unanimous decision in the Grand Duchy in connection with the notification of marine mammals, and has this been notified to the Minister for Fisheries and Coastal Affairs? Having said that, I have to ask if the Minister for Fisheries and Coastal Affairs believes that the marine mammals eat the potato. They're eating fish. There is not a single cell in the Lofoten area that is proposed for peace – not a single seat. It eats fish. Marine mammals do not have a quota. What is done on the part of the Ministry of Fisheries to make the harvest of coastal herds profitable, for example:?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-24.ana.ud672e1122	It could be tempting to take a big debate on the marine mammals. But this is a Question Time, where, according to Storting's Rules of Procedure, I will answer the questions asked. I would like to elaborate my views both on marine mammals and the coastal cod. I note that the representative Bastesen realizes that his questions and his views relating to the coastal cod are so poorly thought out that he needs to address another issue, namely the marine mammals. But this is completely out of the question. If the President permits that, I'd like to have a debate on the marine mammals, but that's not what the Bastisen has asked for in writing.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-24.ana.ud672e1129	Then the president will say that we put the line there and move on.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-24.ana.ud672e1155	These questions are put to the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-24.ana.ud672e1162	I would like to ask the Minister of Defence the following questions: ‘In the context of the sale of Haslemoen military camp, it may appear that there are two different prices for the associated forest. The information service's fund can buy it for 28 million. NOK, but if they do not buy, the price may be more than 10 million. kr higher. Does the Council of State think it right to discriminate against potential buyers in this way, and will she do anything to get equal price?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-24.ana.ud672e1171	Defence construction sent out in May this year a letter on the state clearance of Haslemoen clay and associated forest land. During this period of clarification, the Ministry of the Environment has indicated an interest in the forest for possible use in a makeshift agreement with the Information Society Fund. Of course, defence builders relate only to the Ministry of the Environment and the Directorate of Nature Management in this process. Defence construction has had a close and good dialogue with environmental protection authorities regarding a possible takeover of the forest at Haslemoen. Based on two different tariffs, 26 million, respectively. NOK 38 million. kr, the parties have agreed to base a value on the forest of 28 million. kr. As you know, the defence budget proposes to amend the procedures for the disposal of defence property for next year, among other things. in order to meet municipalities and county councils through pre-emptive purchasing rights in cases where there is no notification of State stakeholders in the context of the state clarification. At Haslemoen, the fare will be $28 million. kr is also the basis for any transfer of the forest to the municipality or county, unless the forest is planned to be used for purposes other than open air and ordinary forestry. If no one intervenes and uses its right of pre-emption in the state or municipal/community clearance rounds, the forest will be sold on the open market, possibly together with the rest of the camp. In that case, the sale will take place after open competition, and then the market will determine the price. At the same time, I would like to point out that if the forest is sold together with the rest of the camp, it is not given that it is possible to separate the exact purchase price for the forest alone. Defence construction has followed normal procedures here, by obtaining a tariff that will be used for the possible use of State or municipal/communal pre-purchase law. Who a possible future buyer, such as the environmental protection authorities, the municipality or the county municipality choose to cooperate with it after purchasing the forest from the Defence Agency, is up to the purchaser concerned, provided that they relate to any future use clauses and possible resale.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-24.ana.ud672e1188	I thank the Council of State for a good and complementary answer. I assume that the Council of State understands that there are some who react when someone can get a forest property and get about. 30 pst. in a discount in relation to the top fare. There's actually my question. But I see that the Council of State says that if there is no sale now and it becomes e.g. the municipality as a buyer can also purchase 28 million. kr, the same as the Information Service Fund. I'm very pleased with that, so that ambiguity goes away. But then it says, ‘unless the forest is planned to be used for purposes other than open air and ordinary forestry’. That is, they're going to pay a different price, but if they had driven a normal forest operation, it's $28 million. kr. But now we know that the municipality, Våler, wants to develop Haslemoen into a food park, and then large parts of the forest may be used for other operations than just forestry.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-24.ana.ud672e1195	I would first like to say that I think it is nice that we have here clarified a possible misunderstanding relating to two different tariffs. It's true that there were two tariffs, but you've agreed to make some kind of average of them, so there's now one fare, and it's 28 million. NOK, and that also the municipality of course gets it as a basis for purchase. To the second comment of the questioner: Of course, any fare reflects the regulation that applies on the plot. An area regulated for residential purposes, e.g. will have a far higher rate than an empty regulated for leisure purposes, and that was in the context I made with the remark I made, linked to the tariff link up against future use. At the same time, I would like to take this opportunity to say that I hope that there can be a dialogue here between both environmental protection authorities and local interests, so that we can reach the most consensus as to who will take over the site in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-24.ana.ud672e1202	I thank you once again for your answer. What I'm thinking about, and what the local authorities are thinking about, is, among other things, to use something – I stress something – of the forest in connection with the industry related to the car, and I am a little afraid that it may help to increase the price of $28 million. kr, which we are now talking about, because it would be unfair, I think. Another thing that is much talked about, of course, is to get ahead of this case, so that this happens fairly quickly, no matter who gets bought. Then those who have plans can develop them, and those who are not allowed to participate, to say so, find another project to think about. I hope for a relatively quick clarification on this matter, which means a lot to those who are interested in buying, and not least to the municipality and neighbouring municipalities in terms of industry and employment.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-24.ana.ud672e1209	I just want to add that here I have the exact same haste as the questioner. The defense needs money for sold properties in order to invest in things we need more, new equipment, etc., and what's pleasing in this case is actually that there are more stakeholders. In this sense, we're all well served with a quick clarification. Therefore, Defence Building to the Ministry of Defence has confirmed that it is aimed at closing bidding rounds throughout the New Year, and it should be in everyone's interest to be able to conclude as soon as possible then.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-24.ana.ud672e1222	This question has been raised. So we go back to question 3.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-24.ana.ud672e1230	This question, which is from the representative of Thore A. Nistad to the Minister for Agriculture and Food, has been transferred to the Minister for the Protection of the Environment, who is directing him.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-24.ana.ud672e1233	I had originally thought that the question would go to the Minister of Agriculture and Food. Then I was told that it was the Minister for Fisheries who was going to answer, and so now a third minister comes into the picture, the Minister for the Environment. The question is as follows: ‘Waldres Rakfisk has been a success and manufacturers sell away from all production. Producers now have to import large quantities of farmed fish from abroad due to: that the county manager has put an end to an extension of the production volume. The County Environmental Department says that manufacturers do not even need to apply; they will refuse despite the fact that the facilities are on land and manufacturers have invested millions in cleaning. Will the Council of State look at current practice and do something about this matter?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-24.ana.ud672e1242	I want to boast of the Rake Fish Environment in Valdres. Valdres is one of the few places in Norway that, on the basis of a food product, is about to establish a brand and an identity at the height of proud French food regions. The rocket fish create great enthusiasm in the countryside, and the ringing effects of production can be found in the tourism industry, the trading community and, among others, food producers – those who stand for everything that belongs to a good rake fish meal. A group of producers has applied for the entry of the Rake Fish in Valdres under the public label scheme ‘Protected Names’. This scheme will contribute to increased regional economic development, and the Government strongly believes that it should justify additional value creation and economic growth in Valdres as well. The production of fish is at the same time a monthly source for the release of the nutrient salt to the Bedena River. Pollution mainly occurs in the period June–September, i.e. during the most critical period of the year, where the water flow is low and the temperature is high. In July and August fish farming is the dominant source of nutrient discharges. The Strandafland, which is the largest and most exposed lake in relation to fish farming, is a medium-rich lake. He's vulnerable to the intake of nutrients, especially in the summer. Several times, late last summer, there has been the bloom of algae in the Strait. For several years, considerable efforts have been made to reduce emissions from municipal sewerage, agriculture, industry and buildings scattered in this region. Large amounts have been invested in technical installations. A potential increase in the production of fish must therefore be achieved by improving purification so as not to increase emissions. The State of Oppland is – and has ours – interested in dialogue with the fish farming industry in Valdres. A part of this dialog will be to participate in the forums where desired. At the same time, as an impurity authority, the State shall set a framework for the amount of emissions that can be towed. In this role, the county will of course also deal with new applications for discharges from fish farming if the project can help to maintain or preferably reduce the total inputs of contamination in the watercourse. However, the main responsibility for finding technically and economically justifiable solutions lies with the industry itself, and I hope they will be closed with this.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-24.ana.ud672e1257	It is nice that all state councils travel around and boast of how good production is in Valdres. We have an agricultural minister who travels around the country and the beach preaching how fine it is with the possibility of local food production. But when a district that Valdres then finds such a niche product, the bureaucrats do everything they can to put in the way of those who are trying to run a new industry, instead of trying to help them. Today we have been importing fish from Denmark to rakefish production in Valdres, and in Norwegian shops we see haugevis with fine mountain trout from Chile. But Norwegian producers get no. The council was also not very clear in their yes, so it is probably still a no, as the environmental department in the county says it does. Does not the Council of State see the high potential of this production — other countries have achieved it?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-24.ana.ud672e1266	I, like the representative Nistad, totally agree that this is a potential. And I just started my answer by giving credit to the work being done in Valdres, where one has the potential to develop a niche product that has turned on very well. I'm busy being able to carry on the production, but I'm also busy making it out of a defensive environmental framework. That's exactly what I have to say, that I don't want an extension of production if it goes beyond the environment. And it's a challenge in this area. We know that it has been a flowering of algae, which I came up with in my answer. Of course, we should look at this issue, but the environment must be based in Valdres as in all other places in the country where we ask for emission permits. It is important that we support this work, but the environmental rationale, to take care of the environment, should of course be a basis here, like any other place.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-24.ana.ud672e1275	I am pleased that the Council of State will look into the matter, and I hope there will be something different than looking at it. The producers in Valdres have repeatedly met the wall. They first had production down in the Stradafjord, as the council pointed out, then they moved the facilities on land, then they put millions of dollars into the strictest cleaning rules available, and yet the county's environmental department comes and says no, no and no! How far do you really want to go in terms of this cleaning, when all the agencies have used so much and the strictest rules are in Norway? Is it intended not to produce fish in Inland Norway but only along the coast? Don't you see the potential that lies there?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-24.ana.ud672e1285	What the representative Nistad is addressing, and I would like to comment on, is that it is the total emissions that are important for this area. And as it was also said, we've had algal blooms in the area. I'm glad that a considerable amount of work has been done in relation to cleaning, but it's the total emissions that are important for the community. One is also aware that it has been emitted from sewage treatment plants. So it's the total situation that needs to be considered. I have asked the county council in Oppland to have a dialogue with the fish farming industry. I am sure that will be done, but I have been busy that there is the overall environmental situation that must underpin the decision to be made by the environmental protection department in Uppland.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-24.ana.ud672e1298	I have the following questions for the Minister for the Environment: ‘In a look-up on NRK Text TV on 18 November this year, it appears that the county statesman of Troms once again refuses the film company Freeride to fly with helicopters in Lyngsalpene. The company wants to create a document on extreme sports. At the same time, the filmmakers behind «Popular Music from Vittula» have been allowed to film in the same area. What will the Council of State do to ensure non-discrimination so that the documentary can be produced?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-24.ana.ud672e1307	The Lyngsalpan landscape protection area was protected as a landscape area on 20 February 2004. Motor travel is generally outlawed in the landscape protection area. It also applies to low-flight flights less than 300 metres, but the county can grant exemptions when the purpose is required for scientific investigations and work of significant social value or in other specific cases where it does not conflict with the purpose of the protection. On 16 March 2004, the County of Trom granted a derogation for helicopter transport in connection with the recording of the film «Popular music from Vittula». The application concerned one hour of helicopter traffic and two landings at the edge of the landscape protection area at the specified location, approximately. 500 moh. at the foot of Kvasstind. Personnel and equipment were carried into an approved scooter loop. Recording was limited to one day with a specific date. The county had no knowledge of environmental values in the area which could harm this activity to the extent that it is contrary to the purpose of the protection and therefore found that it could grant a derogation. The application from Freeride was made on behalf of the film company Matchstick Productions, which produces a 70-minute annual feature film in documents/adventure format that takes on lifestyle and sport. Permits were applied for for 35 landings and 12 hours of helicopter flying within a period from 10 March 2004 to 20 April 2005. The application applied for a landing on high alpine peaks above 900 metres in height, but with any low flight below 300 metres during the filming. The county manager's assessment was that this is not a particular case. There have been similar applications from Freeride in recent years. It was stressed that the approval of the application would create a precedent and open up for an activity that would lead to an adverse development in the landscape protection area. This is about heliskiing, i.e. transport by helicopter of extreme athletes being filmed while they are driving down. Following the state’s assessment, it would be contrary to the purpose of protecting large-scale activities over a long period of time, over a large area and in central parts of the landscape protection area for something generally prohibited. Particular attention has been paid in the assessment to the fact that the purpose of the protection of the landscape is also to provide general opportunities for natural experience through the exercise of traditional outdoor activities with little technical organisation. The area in question is widely used for winter climbing as well as traditional trekking. As this statement shows, there is no reason to say that the applications listed represent the same case. I therefore have no comment on the assessment made by the County Council in Troms in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-24.ana.ud672e1324	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I must say that I completely disagree with the Council of State. When it comes to making a case that ‘Popular music from Vittula’ should have social significance, while making a film about extreme sports, which is an excellent opportunity to market Norway – and especially North Norway – as a tourist country, has no social significance, I do not understand the arguments of the county and the Minister of Environmental Protection in this matter. This is also a complete overrun of local democracy, and that is actually perhaps the worst. For the preparation of the safeguard decision, it has been suggested that municipalities should be able to take responsibility for the day-to-day management of the protection provisions. I just have to show that the rapporteurs in Lyngen, Storfjord, Balsfjord and Tromsø in ours strongly disagreed with the rejection they received at the time. What will the Council of State do to ensure that local democracy has a greater influence on the use of local natural areas?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-24.ana.ud672e1333	It is important to have clear indications of what is involved in the assessment made by the county council here. There have been two things, and they've done a different emphasis on both the scale and the way a wanted to perform the helicopter run. In one case it was an hour's walk. Two landings were applied for at the edge of the landscape protection area. In the second case, permission was applied for for 35 landings and 12 hours flying by helicopter within a period. So it was the big amount that was different. In the first case, it was assessed that an unknown environmental value of the area that could be damaged by that activity was not based on an assessment of the purpose but on the extent of the damage, if any, of such a run. It wasn't an assessment of the two different projects' social values. In one case, therefore, one could not grant permission.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-24.ana.ud672e1340	Then I thank the Council of State for the answer. So the rationale is the large amount of flights. Then it's tempting to ask the Council of State, where's the border going? Or is it the more obvious factor in this case? It's a very strange reason that you have a general ban, but then you have to open up a little bit based on the size of the flights. That seems quite strange to me, especially when you also use the argument that this happened on the edge of a protective area. We had a similar case in Sogn and Fjordane when it came to helicopter flight to Kaldakari, which was also completely on the edge of the protection area, and then we got a rejection. Thus, the same practices do not exist across the country in terms of flying in the protection areas. But I would like to hear concretely with the Council of State: where is the border going? How many flights do you allow, and how many landings do you allow?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-24.ana.ud672e1351	I thought it was important to find out that there is a general ban on helicitation within the protection areas. The underlying causes are possible damage, so the extent of the damage is very important. It's clear that it matters whether there is one or two landings that do not contribute to creating precedents, or whether one is going to add up to an activity such as heliskiing, and thus will not be in line with the prohibition that we have. So it's clear that the scale is very important. What we're basing on is that we want to have a good environmental development of protected areas, and then the scope obviously matters. The ban on helicitation, which was adopted in 1988, I would like to stand firm. I don't want us to make an exception that opens up because it's not fixed. The one application opens up for it, and I don't want to.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-24.ana.ud672e1361	‘95 pst. by all discarded mobile phones are thrown straight into the trash. Telephones contain a number of environmentally harmful substances. Only in 2003 1.6 million mobile phones were sold in Norway. The nature protection association has previously proposed a mortgage scheme to stimulate the surrender of discarded mobile phones. Recently, the Competition Authority gave its support to this idea. Will the Council consider introducing such a mortgage scheme?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-24.ana.ud672e1368	Mobile phones and other electrical and electronic small devices contain pollutants that can harm both humans and nature. I am therefore busy that as much as possible of the waste from such a product is collected and defended. In waste policy, the government has set up a system in which businesses themselves find the most optimal solutions for collecting this waste. On this basis, the Ministry of Environment has concluded an agreement with manufacturers and importers of electrical and electronic products where the industry is committed to collecting at least 80 pst. the waste from its products. In addition, we were the first country in the world to introduce legislation requiring producers and importers to collect the waste from the products they place on the market, through regulations on electrical and electronic waste. Because of these measures, we have at least 80 pst in Norway today. return share for electrical and electronic products set below one, a number no other country can show. However, it is true that the return rate for small devices such as mobile phones is lower than this. Electronics Creture AS, a return company that collects discarded electronic products on behalf of the electronics industry, has reported that the return part for small appliances was around 30 pst. in 2003. We therefore have a challenge to raise the collection of such products. I want to show that the return companies focus heavily on the collection of these devices and work continuously to improve the level of collection. Among the tools are more information about the collection systems and own actions directed at small appliances. Particular attention will be paid to the training of children and young people, who are frequent users of mobile phones and other small electrical and electronic devices. This work has shown results. Electronics creativity AS has reported an increase in collection rates, so that the figure for 2004 will be higher than for 2003. As I said, the waste policy suggests that the industry itself identifies solutions that he thinks will provide the highest level of collection. Producers may, through the return companies themselves, consider the introduction of a mortgage scheme in order to fulfil their obligation to return in agreement with the Ministry of the Environment. State pollution control has recently developed a proposal for a new regulation on electrical and electronic waste which, in addition, facilitates producers to establish mortgage schemes if they so wish. I argued that the electronics industry follows the obligations they have under the regulations and the agreement with the Ministry of the Environment, so that the focus is still on increasing the return part for small appliances. Powers follow the situation closely, including: through annual reports from the industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-24.ana.ud672e1381	I thank you for your answer. The question was not what industry can be expected to do, but what the Council of State will do with the issue. As the Council itself points out, the returns of small devices, especially mobile phones, are very poor. We know that this represents a not insignificant environmental problem, which can become bigger as mobile phones are replaced with increasing frequency. And then the question is why should the Council of State wait for industry itself to put in place adequate mortgage schemes, if necessary, and why the Council of State cannot take initiative in relation to the industry. Now it's not that this necessarily has to happen in public, it can happen in the direction of the industry itself. But it is obvious that the Council of State and the Department here have a political responsibility to advance such a process. I would like to know if the Council of State will take the initiative to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-24.ana.ud672e1388	We already have a tool for collecting electrical articles. But as the representative, Bjørlo Lysbakken, we have a challenge when it comes to the small articles. There's the collection rate too low. I would therefore like to contact the industry to look at it, but I do not want to promise my own return system, because we have an appliance today that I think works well: where we buy articles, we can also deliver them. I think I should be the system that we strengthen and carry on within this area. It's actually an information challenge for the many people who use mobile phones, that the phones don't lie in the drawers, but that we're going to be good at delivering them. There are good returbulences today. We need to focus on that. There I want to contact the industry to improve the result that is already better for 2004, because I also want, in line with Bjørlo Lysbakken, that we can get even better results in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-24.ana.ud672e1393	I thank you again for the answer. I think it is positive that the Council of State will address this. One of the major problems here is that although the return system exists, it is not necessarily known among people. It shows a little bit of the importance of coordinating this. Such coordination work is likely to do even better than the industry itself will be able to do. In any case, the authorities should be responsible for initiating such coordination. I don't expect the council here above the table to say yes to going in for a mortgage arrangement, but I could very well imagine to hear from the council that he will promise to take that assessment with him, and that it will be part of the assessments made by the council when he calls the industry into talks about this issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-24.ana.ud672e1402	What I'm busy with is that we get the best results here, and I want to evaluate the tools that are needed to improve the results. We see that in this area it has been a good dialogue with the industry. When it applies to the agreements we have entered into, it is 80 pst. relatively high. There are few countries in the world that can show better results. Norway should be a country in relation to this. As I said, I want to have a further dialogue with the industry to get better results. The mortgage arrangement is not, as I consider it now, the solution that I want to give priority to, but of course it will be part of my final assessments. I want to make the assessments that are needed to make the best arrangements so that we get the most from this waste. But I have to be so honest to say that it's not a mortgage arrangement that seems to be the solution we end up with.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-24.ana.ud672e1407	That being the case, it is no. 1 finished.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-24.ana.ud672e1418	There is no record.
