ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17.ana.ud979e245	The representative Audun Bjørlo Lighthouse will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17.ana.ud979e248	On behalf of the representatives of Åsa Elvik, Heikki Holmås and myself, I will put forward proposals on the living conditions of single-parents and possible measures to improve them.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17.ana.ud979e253	The representative Magnar Lund Bergo will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17.ana.ud979e256	On behalf of the representatives of May Hansen, Sigbjørn Molvik, Siri Hall Arnøy and myself, I would like to propose measures to limit the use of doping drugs among children and young people.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17.ana.ud979e261	The representative Per Sandberg will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17.ana.ud979e264	On behalf of the representatives of Torbjørn Andersen, Ulf Erik Knudsen, Øyvind Waksdal, Øyvind Korsberg and myself, I would like to make proposals to limit the county council's right of objection in municipal level and area matters and to review the access to appeal against political decisions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17.ana.ud979e269	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will propose that the morning's meeting continue beyond the regulatory time until noon. 16:00. - It is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17.ana.ud979e286	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3484]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17.ana.ud979e301	At the request of the Municipal Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 25 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 20 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Advance Party, Socialist Left Party, Christian People's Party and Center Party 10 minutes each, Left and Coast Party 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers of each party group and five lines with replies after the contributions of members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17.ana.ud979e312	I feel the need to thank the entire Committee for a clean process during the examination of the proposal as rapporteur of the municipality's 2005 proposal. Furthermore, I would like to thank the Progress Party for its constructive cooperation and a good agreement. Major challenges related to rising demand and increased demand for good and adapted services will characterise the municipal sector in the coming years. I am pleased that an overall committee sees the need for change and innovation. It is also gratifying that there is a broad political will to strengthen local democracy and increase municipal freedom of action. The proximity of citizens gives municipalities a good starting point for adapting services to local needs and for looking at different services in a context. The provision of equivalent services of good quality and with good availability adapted to individual needs, irrespective of their country of residence, shall be undertaken by citizens. Work on the decentralisation of tasks, powers and responsibilities must be continued. Together with the Progress Party, government parties contribute to a growth in income in the municipal sector of between DKK 2 and 2.5 billion from 2004 to 2005, an increase that is in line with the increase over the last five and six years. Within this growth, funds are available for the follow-up of ongoing reforms and action plans, primarily for kindergartens and psychiatry. The other parties have proposals that imply further economic growth for the municipalities, but I assume that they will explain this in their respective articles. It will always be the case that more money is needed in a public service sector. Me and the Christian People's Party too would have wanted us to spend more money, but the increase in income must be seen in the context of the financial situation in the country, among other things. expenditure on pensions and sick pay has resulted in a high level of use of oil revenues. For the Government, it has been an overall strategy to pursue a tight economic policy, where the challenge is to find the balance between income and expenditure in terms of interest and crown value. The crown value is of great importance to our competitiveness, which is essential for maintaining the welfare community and reducing unemployment. It's been years since interest rates have been as low as they are now. It also benefits the municipal sector with several billion dollars in saved interest costs. The financial framework for 2005 must also be seen in the context of a historically high income growth in the municipal sector in the current year - a maximum necessary growth, we know that many municipalities are still struggling. Together with the potential for efficiency of the municipal sector, government parties believe that this will give local authorities room to strengthen the economic situation of municipalities in 2005. The target of 3 pst. in operating results, all of which are agreed upon, we believe we are in sight. Demographic developments in the next few years with several secondary school students are moving towards increased expenditure for county municipalities. An overall committee therefore agrees that the growth of the free income should be allocated in a co-ordinated manner between municipalities and county municipalities, which means a significantly higher percentage growth for county municipalities than for municipalities. The entire Committee sees the importance of the continuous efforts of municipalities to ensure the best possible services at the lowest possible cost. It also does the municipal sector itself. The central association of the municipalities showed on the committee hearing that there is an overall efficiency potential of about half a billion dollars a year over the next few years. Both the Workers' Party, the SV and the Centre are planning to enter into an obligatory plan to correct the imbalance in the local economy. The Government Parties and the Advance Party have an understanding of the objections raised by the Government to commit to the multi-annual, concrete escalation of the free revenues. However, we would stress the need for the Ministry, through the consultation mechanism in cooperation with the KS, to continue to focus on strengthening the financial situation of the municipal sector, including assessing how the imbalance can be corrected. During the consultation, KS made it clear that the local government sector was very concerned about improving the situation and referred to the 2003 operating performance of the local government sector as a confirmation. Intermunicipal cooperation is increasing. The Government Parties and the Advance Party believe that such cooperation can never replace the need for a sustainable municipal structure adapted to the current situation and challenges, but is only a useful complement. Fundamental objections to intercommunal cooperation are primarily related to deficits in democracy, large red tape, lower cost control and unclear distribution of responsibilities. It is timely to ask the question of the extensive inter-municipal cooperation that is taking place today may be a major need for structural changes in order to provide citizens with a better and more efficient service provision based on larger units, a wider professional environment and coordination of services. As I see it, the entire committee is concerned that the municipal structure debate must meet in an open and appropriate manner. Several of the lots underline the need for a more robust municipal structure. On behalf of the Christian People's Party, I would like to stress that it is a fundamental principle that municipal associations should be based on volunteering. This is also in line with the Sem Declaration. We look at this background with anticipation to the outcome of the ongoing project between KS and the Department. The municipalities are given the opportunity to put municipal structure on the agenda and to assess whether structural changes can be one of the responses to the challenges facing the local government sector. The Government proposes to return a share of the corporation tax to the municipalities from 2005. It will give local politicians incentives to invest in industrial development and value creation. This is a positive reform that we believe will be reflected in better services. In order to maintain well-being and reduce unemployment, it is essential that new jobs are created, including locally. The Government Parties and the Advance Party support this proposal. But the reform is comprehensive. We therefore want a broader decision-making base and several models worked out before we decide on model selection, phase-in and device. However, in order to safeguard the low-tax municipalities and to find a fair redistribution between municipalities, it is very important that, in parallel with the reversal of corporation tax, it is converted into symmetric income balancing. The Working Party, SV and the Centre reject the proposal and request that the Committee on Income Systems carry out an assessment of this reform. I'm counting on these parts to lay this out in more detail in their articles. In order to ensure municipalities and county municipalities the greatest possible degree of freedom, the government parties believe that framework grants should be the main funding model for the local government sector. Obviously, such freedom does not want the opposition to give to the local government sector. Indeed, these lots oppose the inclusion of several earmarked grants in the framework of the next year and will not decide on inclusion in 2006. We have recorded that the number of committees believes that the condition for the inclusion of earmarked schemes must be that they are fully funded. The Christian People's Party wonders about such a argument. Most designated schemes are financed by a combination of designation and framework transfer. In our view, including everything in the framework will mean that the municipality itself can dispose of the entire transfer according to local and individual needs without taking into account detailed government reporting requirements. It is to show in action that one is serious about strengthening local democracy. However, it is gratifying that the Progress Party agrees that the grant to host municipalities is partly included in the framework. The aim of this grant has been to protect 33 host municipalities of central institutions for mental retardation against redistribution effects in the income system. As a result of a reduction in the number of mental retardants currently covered by this earmarked scheme, the Ministry proposes to transfer about 84 million. kr to the ordinary income system. The proposition does not assess whether these funds should be included in the transitional arrangements of the income system. The Government Parties and the Advance Party are committed to ensuring that host municipalities are released in a harmless manner and therefore ask the Ministry to come back with a detailed assessment of this inclusion in the State budget for 2005. Reference is made in this connection to the meeting of the Committee with the host municipalities and the agreement concluded between the Ministry of Social Affairs and the host municipalities in 2001. Our assumption is that the Government will follow up the agreement regarding the transitional arrangement in this agreement. An overall committee suggests that there has been a different perception between the Süd-Trøndelag County Municipality and the Ministry of the Compensation for Hospital Outreachs related to the capital costs of the RIT 2000 extension. The entire Committee agrees that there is a need to put a point in this case, and agrees that South-Trundellag County provides a total final compensation of 55 million. kr via the discretionary funds. Finally, I would like to make the suggestions in the vote that we have taken up with the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17.ana.ud979e361	The representative has taken up the suggestions he himself has referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17.ana.ud979e366	The Christian People's Party has at least done a large number in the past of the fact that the party has a great heart for those who need help and care. The government wants more competition and inspires private, commercial solutions in the care of the elderly. We know several examples that unfortunately it has given unworthy relationships to many older people. The unfortunate experience would mean that a stop is set for these attempts until we know the effects of them on the users and for them to add. The question must therefore be answered as follows: Why won't the Christian People's Party assess the consequences of a competitive postponement? Is the representative of Østberg concerned about what such an evaluation would reveal?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17.ana.ud979e377	Neither for the Christian People's Party nor for the Government, as described in the proposition, competition is some goal in itself. Competition is one of several means of achieving greater efficiency, in order to achieve better solutions. With regard to the evaluation of trials carried out, I would like to remind you that all institutions have continuous oversight, and this is being carried out in the best possible way.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17.ana.ud979e384	Despite the fact that the Advance Party and the Government Parties have entered into a compromise on the municipality proposal for 2005, there are certain dividing lines. What I want to challenge the representative of Østberg is the dividing line that goes on incorporating earmarked grants. It is tempting, what the government parties say and believe in relation to giving local self-government and the freedom of local politicians to deal with the funds through free income. But my question to Østberg is: is there no concern about giving the municipalities free income when we see that the priorities can be different around Municipality-Norway, which could result in those who really need the resources suffering from local priorities?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17.ana.ud979e391	Different priorities around the different municipalities I think are both right and right. I think it's right that we should allow the municipalities to find the solutions that are right in the respective municipality, and not make A4 solutions for everyone. That is why it is important that there is great freedom. In the case of earmarked grants, we must not apply them to general schemes, but only where there are individual municipalities doing a job for the whole country or for a large region. When it comes to the question of whether you don't see the danger if it affects those who suffer the most: yes, and then we have to have a supervisory system, so that this is pointed out. I'm not very afraid that such things will occur.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17.ana.ud979e400	How we prioritise the common well-being and school as cakes grow is a matter of value. For SV, it's a value question that when we get richer, first of all, we have to make sure that those who have a hard time get a share in that wealth. We're going to spend a lot more on providing care and care and a good school than on helping to increase the private consumption of those who have a lot of time already. It is with both amazement and - I must say - a little sadness that I perceive that the Christian People's Party is now one-sided with the Right, and believes that it is more important that private consumption increases many times more than the public welfare we have together. How can it be that the Christian People’s Party suddenly believes that more new private cars are more important than more new school books and more help nurses to help those who need it the most?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17.ana.ud979e407	The Christian People's Party agrees that when we are rich, we must at least be able to care for those who are poor. For us, it is important that we find solutions where we focus the arrangement on those who really need the help. Strengthening school is important, and during a three-year period, all books in school are replaced. But we also make some reforms, including: Those who are rich and really can afford to pay for a nursery place, now pay a maximum price as a result of which they get as much as those who could really need the help better. The government is the first government to really put forward an action plan to deal with the poor.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17.ana.ud979e414	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17.ana.ud979e418	The Christian People's Party agrees that when we are rich, we must at least be able to care for those who are poor. For us, it is important that we find solutions where we focus the arrangement on those who really need the help. It's important to strengthen the school. During a three-year period, all books in the school are replaced. But we also make some reforms, including: Those who are rich and really can afford to pay for a nursery place, now pay a maximum price that makes them get as much as those who really need help better. The government is the first government to really put forward an action plan to deal with the poor.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17.ana.ud979e425	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17.ana.ud979e428	The municipality is the dominant welfare builder in our country. It's easy where very many of the welfare services are created. Very many people who need welfare services turn to the municipality and ask for help. It's been like this in our country for decades. I feel sure that most of the people want it to still be like this. The Labour Party would like to pursue a policy that would allow the municipality to be the crumbling point for the provision of welfare services. The municipality can operate to provide equivalent services. Moreover, the municipality can be the guarantor of political governance of welfare, not market-driven. The government, on the other hand, is responsible for another policy. It clearly states that the objective is to increase the use of competition in the municipal sector. "The Government therefore considers that several municipalities can use competition exposure as an instrument to improve efficiency and improve the quality of service provision"; is named in the Government's own language theme. Solberg State Council requires more competition and it shall provide more efficiency. It shall provide for greater savings in the municipal budget. The Labour Party is then determined to be a member of the public sector. However, this need must be balanced against the desire to provide good quality services. We reject the Government's unilateral focus on the postponement of competition and privatisation. There are many examples of people in need of help and care. The Labour Party will stop all attempts at postponing competition in the care of the elderly. Sick home spaces shall not be test cloths for exposure to competition. Such experiments must be stopped. The consequences for the quality of services have to be assessed. It must also be the order of the working conditions for them to be added. Unworthy conditions in private, profit-based hospitals should be foundational good enough. We have also registered another side of the shadow of the competition in the municipalities. Very often, the conditions for employees are clearly weakened when private operators come to path. Wage, employment and pension conditions are normally affected by the suspension of competition. This is how employees' terms and conditions will be affected by the Work party's request for a stoppage. Therefore, if a municipality first decides to launch a service, we propose that clear requirements should be met in the procurement criteria. The offerors who wish to impose their conditions worse than those already imposed by the municipality will no longer be in the competition to take over the operation of the municipal service. I note that the Government Party and the Advance Party reject such a proposal. It's a negative censure to, for example, care workers in many municipalities. The government proposes that part of the corporation tax be returned to the municipalities. The large number of speakers was negatively surprised when the distribution came on the table. Not only those who suffered great losses for their own municipalities, but also spokesmen in municipalities that are interested in the new proposal, are clearly critical. They say that the distribution of funds is unparalleled. There are municipalities with an income level below the average that tend to convert, claims the government. It's a statement with a lot of exceptions. I know that many municipalities that have low tax incomes suffer some significant losses because of the government's new proposal. The municipality of Skien has a tax income of 91.8 pst. of the national average. However, the municipality loses 10.3 million. kr next year if the Government reaches with its proposal. Fredrikstad is so determined in the same situation. The municipality has a tax income of 88.7 pst. of the national average. The economic loss next year will be $12.2 million. kr. There are many similar examples. On the other hand, there are municipalities that have relatively high tax revenues and receive financial benefits from the conversion. Stavanger is a municipality like this, which has a population of 96.8 million. kr of the change proposed, while the municipality has a tax income of well 116 pst. of the national average. It is a fact that the proposal put forward by the Government on corporate tax will lead to varying incomes for municipalities from year to year. Framework transfers that are reasonably constant will be replaced by variable and more uncertain tax revenues. For municipalities, corporate taxes are clearly more unevenly distributed than taxes from personal taxpayers. The Government proposal will increase the income gap between municipalities. In turn, this will lead to an even greater difference in service provision than it is today. Not enough with that: the proposal to refund some of the corporation tax will result in a large and unacceptable redistribution of funds between municipalities. The working party cannot stand behind it. We think that the whole thing needs to be evaluated in a larger context of the Income System Selection, which is now at work. It has to be assessed whether part of the corporate tax should really be returned to the municipalities. In addition, income bias must be considered in relation to the effects of corporation tax. We believe that the selection must also assess the use of tools that can motivate more than tax cooperation between municipalities on industrial policy. Unfortunately, if we're going to take the municipal sector on the pulse today, it's not a bright picture. Every day for many municipalities is difficult. The government has no hope of finding a solution to the problem. There is currently an economic imbalance in the municipal sector. There is no match for the tasks to be solved and the resources to be allocated. The Central Association of Municipalities has been demonstrating this for a long time. For this reason, a plan between the State and the local government sector analysing the actual situation has been proposed. Unfortunately, this requirement has been rejected by the Government, strangely enough. The Labour Party believes that a mandatory plan on the financial imbalances in the municipal sector must be drawn up. Then there must be a task for the Storting over a few years to grant permission so much that the local government sector comes out of the economic misery he is currently living in. Before that happens, there will be no peace around this controversial matter. Yes, I do believe that the Council of State Solberg itself realizes. Select one quarter of the municipalities and municipalities are now subject to state supervision. It tells a lot about the economic situation in the municipal sector. Never before has the number of municipalities with heavy economic problems been so high. Besides, it is a strong and clear signal that the role of the populace is under great pressure. Many places are the state that has the real governance. Unfortunately, there are several dark clouds: by the end of 2003, the deficit in the municipal sector was DKK 13.1 billion before loan transactions, making up 6 pst. of the revenue. The economic situation in the municipalities has deteriorated significantly under the Government of Bondevik II. We are witnessing that welfare provision in many municipalities is under great pressure. Well-being is being built into many places. It frameworks the provision of elderly people with a high level of care. The money problems in municipalities lead to poor training for the elephants. The toughest frame is the student who needs the most support, guidance and active follow-up. The weakest party is the most vulnerable. That's critical. The difficult everyday life that characterizes many municipalities requires political action. The Labour Party believes that the most important point is that the local government sector has too little money to help with. Therefore, it is necessary to increase the economic framework substantially beyond the Government's proposal. The working party suggests that the frame be increased by 3-4 billion dollars for next year. The whole crop shall be free of income. The proposal from the Workers' Party will provide Bergen with an additional income of at least 121 million. In addition to the proposal from the Government, Tromsø will receive a win of at least 27,4 million. kr. As a result, care for the elderly will be of higher quality, and for the benefit of the elephants, better training will be provided. This creates optimism. This strengthens well-being. The central point for many municipalities is this: it is very difficult to keep public welfare because resources are not coming. In turn, this could lead to a decline in the quality of public services. Then the arena is open to private solutions. Swallows feed a municipality financially, lay a basis for the launching and privatisation of competition. The Labour Party will fight against such a policy. There is every reason to note that the government party is supported by the Progress Party. The economic everyday life of municipalities will be very difficult next year. Reactions are likely to be strong from users of the services and those added to the community sector. I would like to mention proposal No. 5, from the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17.ana.ud979e475	The representative Sandal has taken up the proposal he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17.ana.ud979e480	The new political regime in Trondheim has made sure to give the LO League, the trade union, not only a hand on the steering wheel, but also a foot on the brake. Workers' amendments shall be followed up and developed by working groups. Decisions shall be taken through a steering group composed of an equal number of representatives of politicians, administrations and employees. Decisions shall be taken by consensus. In other words, everyone involved has de facto veto rights. The most serious thing, however, is the impact such an agreement can have on democracy. It is important to work closely with employees in conversion work, but there is so much power in the hands of actors who are not at the mercy of the people in elections. Another side of the case is that the Workers' Party receives large amounts from LO every year. In return, the Workers' Party is going to give the union a strong position, which goes straight into municipal proceedings. Does the Workers' Party wish to extend the contract? Does the Workers' Party wish to extend the contract to the State?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17.ana.ud979e491	There is no sensation that the Labour Party is proposing to develop welfare policies in our society, at both local, regional and state level, in dialogue with them. Whether they're organized in the LO Federation or in the Association outside the LO, it's not a matter of whether we listen to and take into account those views and recorded them. There is a fundamental difference between the conversion policy we want in the municipal sector and the policy put forward by the representative Gitmark and the government. We say that as an alternative to the competition and privatisation for which the Government is now a strong exponent, we will have the conversion in dialogue with them added, and we will also grant permission to that kind of action. We actually suggest that in the setting, and we refer to the very good experience we have with the model municipality trials in Sørum, Porsgrund and Steinkjer.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17.ana.ud979e498	The representative Sandal from the Workers' Party used very much of his post to express his opposition to the competition. Sandal suggested that further competitive outsourcing in the health sector and care for the elderly should be stopped until the impact of competitive outsourcing has been evaluated. This is a very strange proposal. Does the Workers' Party really believe that the State should prohibit municipalities from postponing competition? In this case, is there a prohibition on postponing competition in line with the principles of respect for local self-government? I'm just asking!
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17.ana.ud979e505	There is a fundamental distinction between the government party and the Progress Party on the one hand and the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre on the other in the view of the launching of competition and privatisation on the other. It is a non-new date separator. It has materialised strongly in the municipal committee's settings throughout this large-scale process. When the Labour Party and the other two parties with which we share our views on this matter, think that we need to know the consequences of competitive outsourcing and this focus on profit-based health home services, which we have seen are very unfortunate in several municipalities, it is to protect the supply to the users and give it a real quality. In fact, it is also important to ensure that the working conditions for those added are maintained in a proper standard.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17.ana.ud979e512	SV is very pleased that the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre are now united in terms of the municipal economy, that municipalities should have both a greater share of the increased social burden, a greater share of well-being and school, and that a plan must be made to correct the deficit in the municipal sector. It's an important road choice. Then it is with the greater disappointment that we experience that the Workers' Party for the second consecutive year concludes an agreement with the Government on the revision of this year's budget, without a single penny to the municipal economy. It might have been possible to understand if it was such that the income assumptions in the local economy were as they were when the budget was adopted - because this is a revision - but they are not. The tax failed by 3.4 billion compared to the baseline in 2003, and appears to be failing by 2.3 billion in 2004, if the forecasts turn out. Can the Workers' Party provide any reasonable explanation as to why they failed to get one penny to the local economy?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17.ana.ud979e519	I thank you for the kind views expressed by the representative, Andersen. I'll try to be kind. Actually, the representative did not entirely hit Andersen, neither the right case nor the right day; it is tomorrow The Stortinget is debating the revised national budget for 2004, but I am still going to be kind and answer the question. The working party should focus on the emphasis on money for the municipal sector for the management of the municipal bill for 2005. When it relates to tax revenue, under different governments it has been that if it has been more tax revenue than foreseen, it has been retained by the local government. From 1993 to 2003, there has been higher tax revenue in all years from 1993 to 2001 than in the current and current budget. When revenue fails, the municipal sector must take responsibility for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17.ana.ud979e528	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17.ana.ud979e532	The government follows up its policy of strengthening local democracy and increasing the urban space in the proposal for the 2005 Municipal Proposition. It is a policy to meet the most key challenge for the local government sector in the future, namely increasing demand for and increasing demand for good and adapted services. Here, it is enough to point out that demographic developments with more older and more pupils in primary and secondary schools are moving towards increased expenditure in the municipal sector in the next few years. I think it is important to stress that closeness to citizens gives municipalities a good starting point to adapt services to local needs and to see different services in the context. In the future, it will be a major challenge to secure skilled labour that can provide the services that citizens demand. We will then take seriously that many of the country's municipalities will experience that they are too small to be able to offer wide and attractive professional environments that are competitive. It will trigger that stronger and more robust municipalities will be an important prerequisite for both being attractive employers, maintaining an equivalent service offer and ensuring a well-functioning local democracy in the coming years. For us in the Right, the vision is still more local democracy. It means more power, more authority and more room for action for the municipalities. We want to decentralize tasks, authority and responsibility. Right will have less government governance and less detailed regulation from Stortinget. We trust our own and other parties' local politicians. In fact, we believe that they are at least as concerned with designing comprehensive and good welfare offers to the population as what we rich politicians are. Maybe there's still something about the fact that whoever's wearing the shoe knows where it's pressing. We have to take it inward that local conditions vary widely around the country. We know that the needs are different, and then we think it is important that the individual municipality should control itself and its resources as much as possible. That is why we in the Right are positive that the Government believes that municipalities should be financed within a framework and that, on this basis, efforts are being made to reduce the number and extent of earmarked grants. The simplification, coordination and reduction of legislation and reporting aimed at the community sector are also very positive. I would also like to stress the need for the state governance of the municipal sector to be balanced between the need for an equivalent service provision for all and the needs of the local sector for maximum freedom to adapt their services to local needs. There is a need for even better framework conditions and more space for action to stimulate innovation, change and development. A vital local democracy is a great value in itself, and I am pleased that the Government will provide local democracy with a broad framework and a large space of action, supporting local development work in the municipalities, which contributes to greater efficiency and good social development. To be quite specific, framework funding is about reducing the amount and number of earmarked grants, it is about returning a share of corporate tax to municipalities, and it is about revising the income system. Furthermore, we talk about simplifying reporting from municipalities and better coordination of state supervision of municipalities. I am also concerned that we are stimulating the increased use of competition exposure, and the keywords here are municipal audit, VAT compensation, the competition portal, user choice counsellor and the efficiency network. I also hope that the work of the local democracy commission will strengthen the status of local democracy. I am pleased that the government parties have concluded an agreement with the Progress Party on the municipal proposal for 2005. The important elements of that agreement are that the framework for the municipal economy for 2005 presented in the municipal proposal should be maintained. Furthermore, it ensures that the growth of free income is to be allocated in a co-ordinated manner between municipalities and county councils, and we assume that within the growth of total income there are sufficient resources to follow up reforms and action plans. The agreement also requires that a share of corporation tax be returned to the municipalities from the budget year 2205, but the government is therefore asked to come back with a special case early in October, where alternative models for implementation are investigated. It is also important for me to stress the continuing need for efficiency in the municipal sector, where KS itself has pointed to a potential of half a billion kroner. For me, the return of a share of the corporate tax to the municipalities is an important part of the municipal scheme for 2005. The objective of such conversion is, of course, to strengthen the incentives of local authorities to promote economic development, thereby ensuring the establishment of a business. I know from my own experience that such a proportion will stimulate local bets and not least local attention to facilitating the development of local value creation. I agree with the introduction of a system of symmetric income balancing in the municipal income system in order to avoid the most unfortunate distribution effects between municipalities, while at the same time helping to maintain incentives for economic development. The agreement between the government parties and the Progress Party gives us an opportunity to dive a little deeper into the model choice as to how this should be put into practice. In fact, this gives the municipalities a little less predictability for the municipal economy in 2005 than I would have preferred, but the important thing for me here is that we are now ensuring the implementation of the scheme with the return of a share of the corporate tax to the municipalities from 2005. I would also like to dwell a little on the VAT compensation, and refer to the majority comment of the government parties and the Advance Party of the Budget. S. No 5 for 2003–04, where the Government was asked to pay particular attention to the fact that the neutral VAT scheme should not provide for an accidental redistribution in the municipal sector. In addition, the government was asked to explain in the 2006 municipal proposition how reimbursements and withdrawals were balanced in 2004 and to provide an overview for the sector as a whole and for each municipality and county, at the latest presented in the 2006 government budget. We assume here that proposals are being made for the creation of any unintended redistribution of the scheme. There is also reason to say a few words about intermunicipal cooperation and possible association of municipalities. This may be a good incentive for more appropriate organisation in parts of the municipal sector. For some, association with other municipalities may prove appropriate, but I think it is important that intermunicipal cooperation and community associations are based on volunteering and local initiative. But to me, intermunicipal cooperation cannot replace a robust and sustainable municipal structure. Overall, I would like to say that in 2005, the municipal sector has a good starting point for delivering good results. As it now appears, the real growth in the total income of the local government sector from 2003 to 2004 can be estimated at 3pst, or more than 7bn. The growth of revenue in 2004 is thus the highest since 1997. Now, we are going to take a small reservation on the tax intake in 2004, which the first few months of this year is slightly lower than budgeted. Now we have indications that this could be corrected in the second half of the year, but still there is some uncertainty about these estimates. The real growth in the free income of municipalities in 2004 is thus estimated to be close to DKK 5 billion. When we subtract that demographic developments result in an increase in expenditure of well over DKK 1 billion, we also have to take into account that municipalities will also benefit from the fact that the average level of interest rates is estimated to be lower in 2004 than in 2003. This could enable many municipalities to strengthen the financial situation and balance sheet. It is still tight for Kommune-Norge, but at the same time there is a lot of positive about modernising and improving the service provision. The 2005 plan is a good follow-up to this work. I therefore recommend the proposals that have been put forward here, which are part of the agreement between the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17.ana.ud979e566	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17.ana.ud979e569	In the Right we have confidence in our own and in the local politicians of others; it knows best where the shoe prints, which has it on, said Hogsnes. Does the Right also have confidence in the rapporteurs of the Right and the Christian People's Party when they describe the situation in the local economy as reasonably dramatic, or does the Right perhaps not have so much confidence in the opinions of the rapporteurs? The gaps also point to the need for conversion and efficiency. If the Right believes something more about conversion than just privatisation, then why does Right object to supporting conversion projects using a model such as: has been carried out in Steinkjer and Porsgrund, and has been shown to be very successful? Is it because they are opposed to conversion, or is it because they want to separate the myth that employees are against conversion?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17.ana.ud979e578	Me and the Right and the Government parties have confidence in Norwegian rapporteurs. Of course, we have confidence in those of our party traps that now express that it's tight. It is in many ways a bit of their job as rapporteur - and I know a lot about that. I have sometimes also said to some rapporteurs that these speeches may have been better even when I myself was rapporteur. The job is to focus on the fact that they want the best possible conditions for themselves and theirs. So ask the representative Schjøtt-Pedersen why we say no to the model community trials. It is not a proper presentation of the matter. The government supported these pilot projects, but what we've been asking questions about is why some people can't help letting these trials go a little further, and also allow more competition.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17.ana.ud979e585	In previous line changes today, we have heard that the Workers' Party wants to stop all forms of increased competition, and especially where private people are in and operate hospitals. Now we know that there have been unfortunate conditions in many public hospitals. In fact, numbers show that it can be as much as 30 pst. of the nursing homes in the care of the elderly who are missing. I would like to have asked the representative Hogsnes whether he wants to use the Workers' Party's method and shut down some public hospitals or stop that process. But I won't. My challenge to Hogsnes is: Will we get safer funding and better conditions in public elderly care, nursing homes and care if we use a different funding model, so that the money is more closely followed by the user, and so that the user himself becomes the quality guarantor of the offer he should receive?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17.ana.ud979e592	For the Right and for the Government, it is very important that we always reach out to get the best possible offer, get the most out of the resources we put in, and find the best solutions. It's about the needs of our citizens, it's about those who are actually our sponsors. They're not always as busy as the politicians of who does the services, they're more concerned with what and what services they get, and they get them when they need it. I'm of those who are accused of us adding more to systems where the resources follow the user. It gives an freedom of choice, but it obviously requires a system where there is something to choose from. That is why we are responding to those who are consistently trying to prevent any opportunity to create these choices.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17.ana.ud979e599	The right went to the elections in 2001 at lower taxes and better schools. First of all, they've come true, but lately it's getting worse. There are 7,280 more primary school students now than there were two years ago, and there are 1,641 fewer teachers. This means that there are fewer teaching hours and fewer annual hours that form the basis for providing adapted training. It was supposed to be the main act of the government's school policy. The main thing is in the local economy, and there is no such money. So now it's going to be less sharing hours, less customized training. It is such that our children need different education, not the removal of sharing hours and adapted training. The children need safe schools, visible adults, not fewer teachers. And the children need many good experiences and experiences that make them happy at school and want to learn more. How can the Right explain that they should be given more customized training with fewer hours?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17.ana.ud979e608	In my opinion, this picture is probably a lot more complex than what the representative Karin Andersen here describes. In my opinion, the government has delivered lower taxes, and you are on a good path to deliver to a better school. A great many municipalities have come very far on the road to refurbishing their school buildings. Quality reporting and other efforts are also beginning to address the content of the school. So we're on our way. I think we agree on the description that children need different offers. They need the quality that we're agreeing to add to the school. My point is that I think we're on the right track, but this picture is complex. I do not agree with the crisis description given by the representative Karin Andersen here.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17.ana.ud979e615	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17.ana.ud979e618	The Progress Party has an alternative model to control the public sector. We have an alternative model of funding the public sector, and in particular the municipal sector. This model is likely to force itself, by the fact that users and residents of individual municipalities will make demands for the services provided and by the fact that people living in municipalities do not know the municipal boundaries but will have a mobility that removes the municipal boundaries. The majority in this room, as well as the Government, will continue to build municipal boundaries that close the population within those limits, regardless of whether there are 1,000 people living in the municipality or whether there are 100,000 people living in the municipality. There is no difference or difference in the municipal policies of the other parties. The Progress Party opens up a model where priority is given to financing the main tasks, where users are more able to decide on the offers made and where resources follow the user regardless of whether a desired nursing home, nursing home or school location. It is possible that the Progress Party is impatient, who wants to speed up such a model. I think it's necessary that there is a party that tells this assembly twice a year that in any case this will force itself forward, so hopefully the reality will finally appear to the majority in this Chamber as well. For the last two years, the party of progress has been evading and abandoning its primary model. We have been involved in transferring significant funds to the local government sector, through conciliation in this room and through our own proposals, simply because we have seen that users in individual municipalities have suffered under the existing system. We cannot accept and bear witness that users suffer from priorities such as the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre Party do in the municipalities. When the representative Sandal pointed out that the Workers' Party wants to increase transfers to the municipalities by NOK 3-4 billion next year, he pointed to two municipalities. Among other things he pointed to Tromsø, which would probably get 27 million. to strengthen care for the elderly and school. But that's not what's happening. If the municipality of Tromsø had received 27 million. kr more next year, they had to use it on their new culture house. They had not had the opportunity to prioritize care for the elderly and school, because they have prioritised completely different things. So it's the Workers' Party and the SV that have done in Tromsø. Therefore, it is strictly necessary that we get control of how the money is used. Users have to decide, and then the money must follow the user as well. It's not right, the representative Sandal says, that when others have the opportunity to operate care in the care of the elderly and in the nursing home, that's why there may be bad offers. Then Sandal should have shut down a lot of public hospitals at some point in time. It is not competition that causes poor supply, control and quality with which there are problems. As long as the users are not allowed to be controllers, you get such a situation. We are pleased that, in the agreement with the government parties, we have taken out the corporate tax reform, so that we can take a bigger round on it. By the way, I have to be allowed to say that the model presented in the municipal bill shows how complicated the Norwegian municipal income system is, how difficult it is to find a fair system. We want to spend a lot more time on it, because this is a huge tax reform. It's about distributing 5-6 billion dollars, and the Storing can't do that in 14 days. That's why we're happy that we get a separate case on this at the beginning of October, so that the Storting gets to take a bigger round on it and get more options to choose from. At the end of the day, I would like to promote the proposals made by the Progress Party in the vote and the proposals distributed in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17.ana.ud979e639	The representative Per Sandberg has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17.ana.ud979e645	The representative Sandberg is just talking positively about privatisation. He does not mention the fact that there are several examples of the fact that the outsourcing of municipal services has led to a deterioration in employee pay, employment and pension conditions. The Labour Party believes that this is unacceptable. We believe that the local authorities should be able to enter in their tender criteria a condition that, if the tender involves worse conditions than those applicable in each municipality, the tender should not be included in the evaluations. If the representative Sandberg believes that it is entirely right to employ, for example: may lose their pension rights on a competitive basis?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17.ana.ud979e652	I know the situation in many private institutions, and I know a lot of sunshine stories from there. I've been talking to employees in private institutions who are very pleased with the situation there. As far as the representative Eye is concerned, there is a large distinction between the Advance Party and the Workers' Party. The difference is that the Progress Party wants that kind of negotiation to take place at the local workplace. I don't want to be a representative of big business as a -- what to say -- adviser to the negotiations that are going to take place in local workplaces. These negotiations will take place at the local workplace! In contrast to the Workers' Party, I am concerned that the freedom of organisation should exist. Unlike the Workers' Party, I do not want to have a dialogue or contract with different organisations, the Local Association, LO, etc., which is to dictate the wage negotiations on the local level. I want it to be voluntary.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17.ana.ud979e659	First, I would like to say how pleased I am with the agreement that the government parties have reached with the Progress Party on the Municipal Proposition for 2005. The representative Sandberg takes up in the line of Ivar Østberg that we have different approaches to local self-government. Does the Progress Party agree that different municipalities with different inhabitants have different needs and different priorities, and that the point of local self-government is that the municipality chooses its own representatives who have different priorities? Is it not true that with the model of the Advance Party for local self-government, there is a great deal of government and local self-government is set aside?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17.ana.ud979e666	I am very pleased with the question from the representative Gitmark, because then I get a clear misunderstanding. When we want the money to follow the user more closely, it means far from more state. This only means that the State guarantees the presence of the funding. That's what the Municipality of Norway is asking for today. All the decisions that are taken, and the reforms that are adopted here in the house, are not funded, says Kommune-Norway. The only guarantee that this will be financed is the Advance Party, because we say that the state should be the guarantor that this is 100 pst. is funded. It doesn't matter to us whether it's the municipality, a humanitarian organization or a private company operating a nursing home, because it's the users who are the controllers. Then it's the users who decide whether they want to be at the institution, and whether the offer is good enough, because users know they have money in their backs, because the government has guaranteed it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17.ana.ud979e675	Yes, it is easy to understand why the Progress Party believes it is necessary to override all local politicians. If one opens up and looks at the local economy, e.g. the figures from the municipality of Os, which is to be the exhibition window of the Progress Party, sees one where almost Norway record in deficit and poor operation. But enough about it. I want to ask the Progress Party whether the Progress Party feels comfortable with and agrees with the Government, because when the tax revenue in the municipal sector for the second consecutive year has failed together for more than NOK 5 billion, the government creates a non-profit account in my and SV's view that because the money lost last year and this year, it is with the money they receive this year, a huge increase in revenue. They're calculating this, so it looks like an increase. Does the Progress Party agree that once the municipal sector has lost billions of dollars, they can better afford it?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17.ana.ud979e682	If Andersen had read the statement, she would have quickly discovered that the Progress Party points out exactly that presentation in our comments. We're questioning whether it's right to act that way, as compared to pointing to an increase from one year to the other. That was one of the reasons why the Progress Party in its revised budget, to be discussed tomorrow, proposed 700 million. kr more to the local government sector to compensate for the loss of tax revenue, as opposed to the Workers' Party, which shouts loudly for more money to the local government sector but does not follow up on the revision. We've taken it inwards, and we're actually in a process where we're assessing whether we need to have a model that sets the framework for the local government sector so that they can be a little predictable for the local government sector. It also implies that if there are increased tax revenues, they must be deducted. But it's just to get stability for the municipal sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17.ana.ud979e689	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17.ana.ud979e692	SV believes that the municipal sector needs to be strengthened by at least DKK 5 billion in relation to the current government and the Progress Party. We do that because we want modern municipalities, where school and care are full of standards in society around it. The big difference between the right and left sides of Norwegian policy is how high we will prioritise well-being and school for all. The right-hand side thinks that we're getting better and safer because someone is getting much richer, and that private consumption is growing much more than what we spend on what we have in common, and that it's more important with more new private cars than more new school books. Cake we've been given for distribution, has increased this year as well. How to distribute it and how to make it bigger are the important value choices. In these choices, SV now, together with the Workers' Party and the Centre, says that it is more important with modern and high-quality schools, that it is more important that those who are old and sick should receive care and care, and that those who need assistance from child protection should receive it on the day when they need it, and not get no because the budget is exhausted, and that those with disabilities should have personal assistance and transport arrangements that enable them to make the same free choices as we are sitting here. It is more important that municipalities can afford and give jobs to people who have been out of work and who have poor health. And it's more important that the municipalities don't have to drive their employees as hard as they are now, that many people get sick, get tired and get sick, because there's too few people at work. We think it's more important than tightening up. The Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Advance Party have now given us more sick and more unemployed for the money. In today's VG, the Minister of Labour and Administrative Affairs and the Minister of Social Affairs are commendable, pointing out that sick leave in the public sector is increasing disastrously. Maybe then you should go a little bit slow and look at how you operate this, how efficiency and reorganization are done, not that it is done, but how it is done, and whether it does not help to make people unable to maintain their health. So the need for local economy and privatisation leads to more people and not fewer people sick and incapacitated. After all, the winner of a tender cannot afford to hire the non-healthiest person who cannot be effective all the time. You have to have enough time to do the job properly, time enough to help just that kid over the knee, so that the apprenticeship and the marine image are in good order, time enough to give comfort and care to a person who is helpless depending on others to absolutely everything. Time is care and time is growing, but time is also money. SV is convinced that it is profitable to invest enough time, so that the labour and competences of the future are best developed through a good school, and that it is profitable to invest in better health and less disease. For SV, freedom and justice are two aspects of the same issue, and therefore the community economy is so incredibly central to making this freedom real to everyone. So in a modern municipality, we think that school should be so good and so diverse that everyone wants to have their kids there. It must be a school of knowledge and learning. It is the most important thing for us to be able to face up to the future safely, both as a single person and as a society. That's what we're going to live on in the future. That is why SV has put bets on children and young people first. School must be so good that not one talent is lost, not one apprenticeship is killed, that you go out of school with more faith in yourself and want to learn more, that the students should be more equal in terms of success in their own lives when they go out than when they came in. It's not like that today, and we have to fix that. The local economy must provide room for a school with adapted training for all. The arrangement of the government offers fewer opportunities for sharing hours, which should provide adapted training. SV also believes that the school must be up-to-date with new school books, not have photocopies of school books, as some of the parents who have visited me have shown. Students need different education. They need adults who are there, so more teachers, and they need all the good experiences. Then you can't cut out everything that makes it a little exciting to go to school, go out, visit business, visit the community around it, camp schools, all that makes it fun and exciting and diverse. The shortage and freedom of public schools are now under threat. Then the answer cannot be that we say that people will be allowed to opt out. The school that is not good enough for everyone should not be good enough for anyone. SV also believes that it is modern and right that elderly and sick people who need it should be cared for when they need it, and that sick and disabled people should be able to stand up whenever they want, go on doves whenever they want, shower when they feel that it is necessary, and not when it suits the municipal tour. It's a value choice. The Christian People's Party now stands against this, together with the Right Party and the Advance Party, who believe that it is more important that we give a larger piece of cake to all of us who have a lot to go with before, so that we can increase our private consumption. And as the buy-in party increases, the respondent search will hang like a threat over the head of the maids, so that they will jump fast enough and be cheap enough for this government. But it's not the help nurse who's too expensive, or the grandmother who's too expensive. It simply lacks both the courage and the will of this government and the Progress Party to choose what is most important, first, and to say to those who have more than enough, that they must be so kind as to wait a little, because there is something else that is more important to us. The nursery contract is now in place. It shall provide space for all and maximum price. It is good for parents, children and businesses alike. But today, in the evening post, Secretary of State Syversen of the Ministry of Children and the Family, says that, at macro level, funding is in place. Then I would like to say that in response to the Financial Committee during the review of the revision, it points out that in order to make the assumption of 80 pst. State funding must be in place, it is about missing. 240 million. kr. That is a lot of money, and that is not, at all, full funding from the state. Many are poor in Norway, unfortunately many children. No one is so dependent on the local economy, for example: can provide them with a cultural and leisure offer that they can share with other kids, and not be referred to any targeted and pointed offers that are an offer to the poor, so that they may have some business to do with. They're going to be able to go to the music school and join the football just like everyone else, on equal terms. Then the municipalities must have the opportunity to offer it. We've got a lot of serious signals from the municipalities about the conditions for psychiatric patients. Exploitation of psychiatric hospitals saves the state and health businesses, but increases the costs for municipalities. Many patients have lost their local offer without access to something that replaces what disappeared. SV assumes that the intention of the Escalation Plan for a better offer to users must be respected. No offers shall disappear until they are replaced by others. With the local economy that we get now, this becomes very difficult, and sometimes impossible. Then we have to ask, what's most important? Is it most important that these patients receive an offer, or is it more important that private consumption be further increased? The government has promised a lot of tax relief and kept many of those promises, but there's one tax increasing, and that's the tax on sickness, i.e., excesses. SV has therefore proposed to create a plan to reduce the use of propensity. It is also a choice of value, for tax should be according to ability, not according to health or needs. So short of the income system otherwise. SV is associated with the Centre Party and the Workers' Party in the view of the changes proposed by the Government. In particular, I would like to comment on the corporate tax. The government argues that municipalities should be encouraged to promote business development. That could be good. I have not, for my part, taken a single municipal politician who is not concerned about it. But it is strange how it is believed that municipalities that are already struggling with this, after they have had a poor municipal economy and now lose several million kroner in addition, will become good and attractive municipalities for business. I have no faith in it. Whether it's people with high skills or business, they want to settle in a municipality that has good schools, where kindergartens are in place, where the care provider is there on the day you need it, where you have a modern municipality that has time to sue you quickly. It is clear that it is not possible for a municipality that has to cut all these services to become attractive to business. That is why we have said that the conversions need to be evaluated in a complete way. We have also said that the revenue needs to be distributed better between municipalities. I would like to address the proposals in the vote to which SV either stands alone or is co-rapporteur, in addition to the proposal that is on the table today.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17.ana.ud979e727	The representative, Karin Andersen, has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17.ana.ud979e732	In Trondheim, SV sits with the vice-president. There has now been an agreement with the trade union without any foundation in the political forums. We notice that the arrogance of power has now clearly become so great that the city's new political leadership does not care about listening to the opposition. Does SV think it is right to enter into an obligatory agreement with the trade union, without the agreement being approved or debated by elected representatives? Does SV believe it is right that employees and the administration should have a veto in matters relating to re-employment?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17.ana.ud979e740	I think maybe the Right should be a little careful when they talk about contact and who it is that gets more for the money by being on the team. For the Right, sails have opposed themselves very strongly to publishing who is sponsoring the Right. Having said that, I would like to remind you of some of the things that resigned the Council of State Norman said in his first post in Stortinget, where he spoke about modernisation. One of his main points was that the conversion that the employees are not in is doomed to failure. Now it is correct that I don't think he one day followed this principle when he was in. But that's the right principle, and that's what this is all about. I also noticed that the representative Gitmark, when he addressed this theme earlier in a reply, believed that consensus means the same thing as veto. At least then the representative Gitmark and I have a very different perception of what consensus is for something.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17.ana.ud979e749	The Labour Party, SV and the Center Party agree on an alternative policy to the Government and the Advance Party in this setting. A policy with more money for school, more commitment to care for the elderly and more commitment to health care. It shows a very clear alternative in political Norway that I think it is positive that it has been made as clear as it has been in this position. In the setting SV has asked for an assessment of a freer tax right. Some district municipalities face the situation of a decline in the population and a reduction in the population-dependent transfers as a result. Is there any danger that a freer tax law could put an additional pressure on this type of municipality, which has a decline in the economy, to have to set the tax level higher than in other municipalities, and that it could be even less attractive in relation to new businesses?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17.ana.ud979e756	KS has had a selection reduced, which has worked with well-being. They have recommended that there should be time-limited possibilities for a type of tax credit to implement projects. That's what SV agrees with. The greatest possibility of using this is in larger municipalities. Well, that's obvious. There are many larger municipalities where the population is increasing rapidly, and there is a need to solve acute problems. We believe that it will strengthen democracy that local politicians can go to the population and make an agreement on a kind of hard work that says: now we pay a little bit more in taxes for three or four years, and then we get this implemented. We think it's important and right, because it turns out that the population is actually willing to pay something more when there's a little bit shorter distance between what they pay in, and what they see they get back for the increased effort.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17.ana.ud979e761	As usual, the SV proposes to allocate the most money to the local government sector. SV sees only one solution to the challenge of municipalities, namely to grant more and more money, and much more money than all other parties. Taxes and charges shall be sent to heaven. Enterprises and employees are billed and jobs are threatened. Does SV at all see no other solutions for the municipalities than to grant more money? In terms of competitive outsourcing, innovation and public operation and provision of services, SV is in a state of complete disrepute. Public operation and provision of services shall be organised as a monopoly. What other proposals do ENS actually have to ensure more efficient use of resources and better welfare provision in the municipal sector than just one-sided world champions in proposing more money?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17.ana.ud979e768	If we go back and look at a debate we had last day, where the Progress Party was the world champion, to say so, in granting money to build a lot more road in Norway, the SV's municipal effort is not near it. What we're saying is that when we get richer, we're going to use a proportionately equal share to ensure well-being and school as to secure private wealth. For us, it's a value choice. We think it's more important. So to this with how we're going to make the municipalities better. SV is very busy with that. We believe that we need first of all to cooperate with the employees, because it is the employees who are going to take care of our children and care for the old ones, and they are the ones who are going to provide us with service when we need it. To do that, we need to have a climate that doesn't make people sick and incapable of working in the public sector, in the municipal sector. They will be today. Therefore, it would be profitable to have better employment and more employees in part of these jobs. It will pay off in the long term and will not be expensive at all, as the Progress Party believes.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17.ana.ud979e775	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17.ana.ud979e778	Decentralisation and popular rule are a necessary foundation for a positive development in society. When power is moved from local to central level, from popular government to bureaucrats, and from social support to market thinking, a few more poor solutions and more popular rejection can be achieved. There is clearly cause for concern over the overall impact of the Bondevik II policy line. Increases in centralisation and social disparities are the results so far. The central party will have a reverse operation, both in economic policy and in the distribution of power in society. The central party believes that total growth in the municipal sector will be up to DKK 7 billion in 2005, i.e. $4.5 billion more than the government's proposal. The growth in free income should be about NOK 3.7 billion, of which 700 million. kr compensation for the loss of tax revenue in 2003. The revenue in addition to the scheme of the Government shall be broken down by the ordinary key of distribution. The government operates with uncertain figures when it relates to the costs associated with several of the government reforms adopted, including: the kindergarten reform, the introduction programme and the top funding of users with special needs. The Centre Party shall use full funding. The local government sector’s economic situation has deteriorated markedly during Bondevik II. This is related to both high pension costs and a dramatic failure in tax revenue, and not least to the government’s depriority of community solutions for the benefit of large tax credits. Let me remind you of the following: The underbalance in the local government sector is approximately SEK 5.5 billion. The operating debt is approximately NOK 13 billion. Every fourth municipality is on the ROBEK list, under the administration of the county. Net operating surplus was estimated to be 0.5 pst in 2003, 0.1 pst. lower than in 2002. The net operating surplus should have been 3 pst. - the accumulated deficit in the municipal sector has increased every year under Bondevik II. The tax deficit in 2003 was DKK 3.2 billion. The 2004 tax estimate is now written down at NOK 1.2 billion. The 2005 government's plan covers a very close to the increase in the cost of demographic costs or population growth, much less provides room for improving the underbalance in the local government sector. It's in the municipalities people cage! A good school and a more dignified care require a different and better financial arm for the municipalities. The government has repeatedly camouflaged the fundamental debate on the economic level we are going to have in the municipal sector, with various proposals that they call strengthening local democracy. This is also the case in the bill this year, both in the case of proposals for the inclusion of premiums that go to a few municipalities, and in the case of the Government's proposal for the return of corporation tax to the municipalities. The government should not succeed in moving the focus from the municipalities' overall financial framework to an "equal discussion" about how municipalities should secure their own income through the tax system. It is a great paradox that in the meantime, the same government that has seen down a proprietary income system selection to present the adjustment next year is promoting proposals for major changes in the income system. The municipal sector must be given the necessary freedom to adapt its supply to local conditions. Nationally elected bodies at local and regional level must be guaranteed the legitimacy of representing the inhabitants of their territory, as well as the authority to take decisions for the benefit of local communities. There is a clear political alternative to the right's piercing of the municipalities. The Centre Party, the Labour Party and the SV agree on a completely different priority of good local welfare provision than that proposed by the Government: a significant increase in the free revenues of the municipal sector full funding of state reforms a multi-year escalation plan to correct the financial imbalances a more mandatory consultation mechanism between Government and KS privatisation and competitive deferral is not an appropriate tool for the modernisation of the public sector rejection of the Government’s model for the reversal of the corporate tax maintenance of the host municipality bill, which goes to 333 municipalities full and lasting compensation for the additional costs of municipalities that have large additional costs because they have taken over responsibility for the shooting of 55 million health professionals. SEK to Süd-Trøndelag County for capital costs related to the RiT 2000 a briefing on the use of new technologies in schools and municipalities in the 2006 municipal proposition an open approach to changing municipal boundaries based on voluntary activities and local initiatives The government's proposed municipal economy for 2005 is a cynical downturn in a good schooling and care provision where people live. The scheme confirms the Government's main objective: to continue building up the public sector. There will then be little more resources, corks for the necessary upgrading of municipal building mass or for increased efforts for the disabled or drug addicts. A raw printing policy in hospitals means that new groups are becoming more and more concerned in municipalities. The government's fight against poverty can be a blow to the air if the municipalities have to cut the number of settings that need to be followed up with the most difficult ones. The sick leave in the municipal sector is on record 9 pst. This figure accommodates both huge human costs for those added to the municipalities and equal social costs in the form of sickness benefits. The 2005 government's plan means that even more work will be done with fewer hands. It may involve an additional increase in the sick leave. The government proposes to bring part of the corporate tax back to the municipalities. The proposal amounts to a reduction of the municipality's personal tax revenue of approx. 5 billion kroner. These funds will be returned to the municipalities according to a different allocation principle. The real redistribution between municipalities is about 800 million. kr. The centre party in which the municipalities have greater control than today over their own tax revenue. Today, we are promoting proposals for a settlement on that very point. But we can't go in for a corporate tax scheme that's an exclusive redistribution from the 350 municipalities that lose out on the scheme to 80 winners. The government's plan does not allow municipalities to raise income, and the economic differences between municipalities increase. The income system must operate primarily in such a way that all municipalities have the same ability to provide municipal services. The changes that the Government proposes in corporation taxes and anti- income adjustments will reinforce the effects of uneven economic structure and pay differentials between parts of the country. In several ways, the Minister of Local Affairs has threatened with coercion in order to obtain what she calls a robust municipal structure. It is not constructive to discuss changing borders without looking at the tasks that municipalities have set to solve. The main point is how to get to a good school and a worthy care where people live. There is a lack of funds and not the municipal boundaries that hinder good development in many municipalities. The request for a minimum number of inhabitants of municipalities is meaningless, not least due to geographic circumstances. In fact, 21 out of 23 municipalities in Hedmark are larger than Oslo. The same applies to all municipalities in Finnmark. The 26 municipalities of Sogn and Fjordane are on average three times as large as the municipalities of Akershus, while Akershus municipalities have on average five times as many inhabitants as the municipalities of Sogn and Fjordane. The government also uses labour shortages in the future as an argument for municipal convergence. 41 pst. of those working in the local government sector are part-time employees. The number has increased from 32 to 41 pst. in two years. Many want to work more, a fantastic unused reserve of labour, which is essentially not being exploited, because the municipalities are not getting funds in line with the tasks they are going to solve. A targeted focus on inter-municipal cooperation solutions is needed to address the challenges facing many municipalities now. The centre party and SV promote several proposals in this setting to strengthen precisely inter-municipal cooperation. Last year, on the initiative of the Centre Party, a multiplicity adopted a national ICT-based service development offensive. I would like the State Council to do its best for status so far. Finally, the agreement between the Advance Party, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party is sadly read. The Progress Party, in conjunction with the Labour Party, the SV and the Centre Party, was able to secure a majority for the return of company taxes, to continue with the Host Municipality Act and for the State full funding of the transport of health professionals in Austevoll and other coastal municipalities. But then the municipalities had also received more funds for the next year. It seems to be the main cause of the Progress Party this time - the Government frame should be maintained. There must be uncertainty about corporation tax. Christian People's Party is wisely silent. They're not exactly cheering out for this arrangement. But when you don't stand for extended frames, it's just those who become the chief executive. I hope that the pressure from outside will soon be so great that the Christian People's Party will win over to this reprehensible right-wing arrangement. So I'll finally bring up proposal No. 14th @item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17.ana.ud979e889	The representative Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa has taken up the proposal she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17.ana.ud979e894	In the matter that we are now debating, there is a lot that gathers the Labour Party, SV and the Centre Party. It's an important political signal. The three parties are involved in the struggle to create better welfare in our municipalities. That's what I thought was very happy. But the central party does not follow the Labour Party and SV all the way in the view of municipal union. The Labour Party and SV stress that bundling must be voluntary and based on local initiatives, and the municipalities that join forces should not be given smaller framework transfers as a result of a municipal merger. We believe that more cooperation and better work sharing are important across the municipal borders. Why can't the Center Party and the representative Meltveit Kleppa not be in such a position?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17.ana.ud979e899	In the interests of the many people who need a more dignified care, a better school and more cultural and leisure services, and in view of the fact that municipalities should also have the opportunity to develop their businesses, I am very pleased that there is a wide alliance between the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre for more funding to municipalities. Then I feel that there is a nuance in this field, which relates to the municipal structure, between the Labour Party and the Centre Party, even when it relates to inter-municipal cooperation. The Labour Party has a note where they will have inter-municipal cooperation to facilitate models for a new municipal structure. The center party thinks it should be a strategy to secure today's structure. However, when a municipal merger would be appropriate on the basis of voluntary action and local initiative, the central party would have to make arrangements for the municipalities not to be withdrawn, either in the case of frameworks or in the case of subdivision costs.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17.ana.ud979e904	It seems as if the Central Party, like SV, sees only one solution to the challenges facing the local government sector: spending more, more and more money. You can ask, what is the difference between the Central Party and the UK in terms of local government policy? Is the centre party more or less resistant to competitive outsourcing than SV, or is the centre party 100 pst. in line with SV in the case of resistance to competitive outsourcing? And one more thing: the centre party is the great protector of local self-government and local self-government. But the Central Party is therefore involved in a proposal that will in reality prohibit municipalities from putting off competition. Is there respect for the local right of self-determination, as the Centre Party claims it is, and can the Centre Party be aware of the fact that it would prohibit the outsourcing of competition in relation to local self-government?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17.ana.ud979e910	When it comes to the fight for a better school and a more dignified care, there is probably no difference between SV and the Center Party. A few days ago, there was a big difference in the view of private property. Then I am a little surprised by the attack from the Progress Party in relation to local self-government. So it's from a party like this. not found necessary population for changing municipality structure. For the Centre Party, it is important that municipalities make the funds as far as possible to improve care services. We think there are solid experiences that are best done in an interaction between the added and the local populace. We didn't think it was necessary to experiment more with the release of care until one has got certain fundamental elements in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17.ana.ud979e919	The centre party is still hammering, even today, that tax havens are the cause of the private wealth in Norway, and that the so-called public poverty has the same cause. I guess that's the right and most important answer. We now have most of them. The 20 billion given in tax relief went to business, and there it was absolutely necessary to secure jobs. ==References== 10 pst. which can be argued for being tax-free to the rich is hardly the answer to the needs of the municipal sector. But it's true that we never before have our richer, and the salary level, which is already 35 pst. over Sweden's path every quarter of the year. This year, the wage increase means NOK 6 billion in additional expenditure for municipalities. Wages and salaries actually represent 80 pst. of the costs. And this is just one example of the background for a simple question. Does the Central Party and the representative Meltveit Kleppa understand that the analysis they provide for reasons of public poverty is at best very deficient?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17.ana.ud979e928	In any case, we understand that the analysis provided by the government is very deficient. We still haven't been able, despite repeated attempts, to get evidence that the 20 billion that have been given so far have gone to business. In fact, it is now that business itself is asking for, for example: enhanced transport rather than additional tax havens. Then we're not just going to stick to the past, we're going to look first and foremost at the future. There the government has now provided a model to ensure extra tax havens for those who have the most, where 10.5 of 12 billion -- unlikely, but the case -- goes to those who tend the most. And then the choice is simple. It is not for help caregivers and reinkeepers to pay decent wages that suffocate this country, but it is this choice for which the Government is supported by the Progress Party to deprioritise the Community sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17.ana.ud979e935	The cord shift has thus been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17.ana.ud979e938	Many of the most important tasks in society are carried out by municipalities. There is hardly anything more important in a society than providing training to our children, care for our elderly and health care to those who are ill. However, the opportunities to provide a good service to the population in these areas depend, of course, on the fact that municipalities have enough money to develop the service provision. Of course, municipalities have to ask how to get an even better service out of the money at their disposal. Can one use less for administration and more for services? Can you use the money in another way? Those of us who are most concerned with good community services must also be those who are most concerned with an ever-renewal of the service provision. But the Right Party and the Advance Party have made the mistake that renewal is the same as privatisation. We saw this not least when the municipality of Oslo some time ago put road work on offer. The municipal road company actually had the lowest price. However, the Right Party and the Advance Party chose to give the assignment to a private company, which understood that the municipality's company could actually make this work cheaper, leased the municipal company, and could take the profits themselves. Such examples are foolish. And as the Christian People's Party rapporteur in Skjervøy says, there is a limit to efficiency and rationalisation. You can't make the care of the elderly machine. Something like that said Prime Minister Bondevik when he was a staging representative, before the elections. And this is the Labour Party's agreement. Current challenges in the municipal sector cannot be solved through reorganisation; more money is needed. This is a question of values. If we choose as a society to provide our children with better schooling, if we choose to provide our older people with better care, if we choose to provide better health care for those who are ill, or if we choose to distribute the money in tax relief? This is a choice. There is no need for nature, nor a need for national economics, for municipalities to have a need for economics. Today's suspension confirms that the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre make a completely different choice than the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Advance Party. The Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party will strengthen the school offer, will strengthen the care of the elderly, will strengthen the provision of health care. That is why we want to strengthen the local economy. The Right Party, the Christian Party and the Advance Party, will bring tax relief. Therefore, they narrow down to the local economy and allow local politicians to take the difficult job of telling the local population that there is going to be less schooling, poorer elderly care and poorer health services, not because local politicians want to, but because the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Advance Party allow children and the elderly to pay the tax breaks. The arrangement of the Government and the Advance Party for the local economy in 2005 is alarming. 114 municipalities and county councils are subject to state supervision. More than ever since the introduction of the new supervisory regime. The deficit in the local government sector is estimated at a total of DKK 13.1 billion before loan transactions in 2003. The Technical Calculation Committee confirms that the economic situation in the municipal sector has deteriorated significantly in the last two years. Unemployment in the municipal welfare sectors is increasing. So in such a situation, the majority of the Storting, the government parties, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left, plus the Advance Party, choose to tighten up the local economy, so that the local government sector does not even get enough money to cover the additional costs that the municipalities will have next year as a result of increasing the number of school students and older people. But it's a choice. Today’s debate shows that the population can choose between an alternative of better well-being and an alternative of poorer well-being. In this way, both the vote and the debate are clarifying.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17.ana.ud979e959	The municipal bill for 2005 has been characterised to a large extent as a status quo. It is a scheme that hopefully, a little depending on what decisions the Stortinge had to take in other matters, could help us to maintain, but not degrade, the accumulated imbalances in the local economy. However, this must be seen in the light of the fact that the financial structure for 2004 is the second worst economic structure in the municipal sector. There has never been any approximation of such growth in free income. It's never been such a big frame of growth before. And it's a golden opportunity for Norwegian municipalities in 2004 to do something about the accumulated imbalance and get into a better track. There is a lot of evidence to suggest that it may actually be that there will be a better outcome in 2004 for a large number of municipalities. For the worst year in relation to operating performance in the municipal sector, 2002 was a year of very high growth in the free incomes and high growth in the framework of the local economy. But there were other circumstances that did. In 2003, which was a tighter year in terms of transmission, the results show improvement in relation to the 2002 layout. This may indicate two things, both that the conversion work has started a little better in the municipal sector, and that what we have not talked about here, the low level of interest rates, actually contributes to a significant improvement, which cannot be seen from the figures we have for growth in transfers, but which makes the cost level of the local government sector light, even though the growth in 2003 was lower than both in 2002 and 2004. I stress this, because it is quite important to see that it is the cost side that is the most important for the ability of the municipal sector to provide good services. It is not the transfers of income from it, but it is the development of costs. And then it's incredibly important that we keep an economic policy that contributes to low cost developments. This year's pay bill contributes positively to a larger room for action in the local government sector. Based on the moderate wage-fixing we've achieved, while ensuring that people get income-improvement due to low interest rates and moderate settlement, we get both more well-being for the money and a better private economy. I say that to emphasize that there are many other dynamic factors than what this debate seems to show about what is the framework of what we get out of the care and welfare of the people who live here. So I want to say that what I think is the most boring, is that the Storting still doesn't want to do anything about municipal freedom. Unfortunately, we have no impact on more than inclusion in one area. I'm glad we're doing that. But I want to stress that the plan that the Workers' Party also agreed on was necessary, when they put in government, namely to include earmarked funds to give greater municipal freedom on priorities, we should have followed up, especially in the light of all the fine words expressed last year about municipal freedom, and the desire to do something about it. I record that we have received a majority to introduce corporate tax from 2005, but not necessarily for which model, and we come back to the harvest with a scheme for that. I think it's quite neat that the SV and the Workers' Party are against. They've always been against it. They were to include it in the previous frame. I'm a little surprised that the Center Party, which actually turned around relatively quickly after they agreed to remove the corporation tax, and in the last period had many rhetorical rounds about how important it was to bring it back, now backs, because it becomes pluses and minuses. Of course, it's going to be plus and minus. There will be more negatives than pluses when you return the corporation tax to the municipalities. Whatever model you choose, the distribution of income from corporate tax will be the same. I'm surprised that it makes you go back for something that you've had a high profile on in a number of debates in the past. Then I have to say that I think the focus is on everything being bad and difficult, especially in relation to the outsourcing, and working to get more user choice and to get more money back and conversion, is negative. I'd like to say to Karin Andersen -- if we're going to take the term "we have to get more time" along with, for example. patients - that I think you should see with open eyes on the user choice model in Oslo. The evaluation shows that by working smarter- not faster running and less time - there has been a better time and more time with the individual user. It should have turned Karin Andersen's view that the user choice is not a good model.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17.ana.ud979e978	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17.ana.ud979e981	Kjell Arvid Svendsen is an experienced spokesman in Karmøy. He is also head of the Christian People's Party. After the municipality proposal was made, he reacted strongly, among other things. to the proposal for the return of company tax. To the Haugesunds Avis, the coordinator, says: "Really dramatic. This is a redistribution that caters to the big Right-steered cities that will run away with the cake." The dictator points to one that must be produced "what biases the proposed conversion will bring with it.This is a matter that we cannot fail to pursue politically to the top." I would therefore like to ask: does the Council of State Solberg understand the views expressed by the rapporteur, Mr Karmøy, or does it operate on a failed basis?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17.ana.ud979e998	So long I've been working on both income systems and redistributions related to municipalities, that I know how role-sharing is. Anyone who gets a minus will always think that what we do of changes is unfair - with a heroic exception from one municipality, namely Oslo. In Oslo, it has been said that even if they get negative, you are basically the company tax refund. But those who get plus, of course, will think that this is very fair. Our responsibility is to decide for ourselves. We, as the National Assembly and the Government, have a responsibility to ensure a fair overall system that each of those who have a mailbox position cannot have, and that it is always impossible to explain their own voters. We've done two things. We have reduced the corporate tax. Karmøy would have been a winner in terms of the return of corporation tax, but then we have at the same time introduced symmetric income balancing, which means they don't get that effect. And why do we do that? If we had just brought back the corporate tax, it would have been unfair. There would be very large redistribution of income. When we have symmetric income balancing, I am amazed that the Workers' Party argues against it, because it provides a much greater degree of cohesion between rich and poor municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17.ana.ud979e1010	I have registered that large-scale workers' party-driven municipalities are in fact cheering that the company tax should be refunded. It's just listening to what you say in Trondheim. So to this by creating predictability for the local government sector. I would like to challenge the Council of State for thinking about this by compensating for lost tax revenue, if that happens, and possibly withdraw if the tax revenue is above what is predicted. We see that if the state loses income, it is easy to just pinch and then pick up some funds to compensate the state for lost income. Now it is also the case that the Storting determines the framework for the municipal sector. Does not the Council also believe that the Storting should provide predictability for the local government sector by longer budgeting over several years, possibly a balance with lost tax revenue, plus and minus?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17.ana.ud979e1018	In fact, when municipalities lose tax income, the government also loses tax income at the same time, since we share the same forms of income. It is also a challenge for the state to settle and revise the budget. It is not certain that the Government has only been pinched and left to make repriorities and changes. So we have inserted a cut in our proposal for a revised national budget, but then the Storting has not accepted a number of the changes that we made in the budget. It is clear that there are more limited opportunities to make changes in the middle of a financial year, because part of the money, among other things, is involved. are distributed to others, and because we are trying to create as much predictability as possible. It is, of course, a challenge for the local government sector that having their own tax revenues could contribute to more predictability. But we have to live with that. As long as the local government sector does not want their situation to be just a result of a redistribution or repayment and transfers directly on the government budget, that means that we must always have room for things to happen during the year, and that we have to make changes in the budgets.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17.ana.ud979e1023	First, the Council of State gives the impression that SV does not want those who are users of municipal services to have something to choose from. That's why SV wants a good municipal arrangement, so that you have something to choose from. The problem now is that you don't get, and then freedom of choice isn't much worth it. So to this discussion about the failure of tax revenue. State councils may be right in some of the comments she made now, but she forgets to say that the state, when it is to balance its budgets, spends more oil money. The municipal sector cannot, but the Council of State does. But the most provocative thing about this is not that the Council of State chooses, as she does, not to give enough money to the local government sector, but it is that she puts up a fine calculation and says that 2004 is the year in which we had the biggest growth in free income that the municipalities have had. The whole basis for that calculation is that they have lost NOK 5 billion in tax revenue. How is it going to get a big loss to look like an increase in income?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17.ana.ud979e1030	When we talk about increasing revenue, we're always talking about increasing from one year to another. So you could say that over a long time there may be some years when there has been tax failure, which makes the increase, if we distribute it in years, become smaller. But the background for it to be relevant is that it's what you're doing, for example. must measure the imbalance in the local economy after. For the imbalance in the local economy, which we and KS agree with, an accounting operation is based on how the operating results have been compared to our objective that it should be about. 3 pst. on a balanced basis. So last year we found out that there was $5.5 billion in imbalance. Then, in relation to the operating results and the imbalance, it is also relevant to look at the growth from one year to the next. So we could say that we also had to operate on growth over many years, over intervals, to see how much it averaged. Then there would be different numbers. If we're going to get a change in tax revenue today, for example, This year's tax revenue helps to improve the results, while at the same time we would operate on growth initially, for example. from the revised national budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17.ana.ud979e1035	I have here the status report for the education sector in Rogaland for 2003-2004. Director of Education Svein Helgesen says: "No lir schools under heavy municipal cuts.There will be fewer teachers, municipalities will use assistants instead of educators and less money for furniture, equipment and books." And on the other hand, "Helgesen believes that more elephants now need special education because the ordinary school supply is not good enough for the elephants with extra needs." That the Council of State will not listen to the Central Party when it comes to the community structure is sad. But when the Government’s own supervisory body says so, is there also a real signal that the Council of State will ignore, or will it study more closely the situation in the school sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17.ana.ud979e1052	The government has followed closely the situation of the resource in school and has provided its own written statement to the State of the Resource Situation in School last year. What's a fact in Norwegian school is that there's a little less resource input per. student, that's right. However, Norway continues to use more resources per year. students in both educational and non-tertiary areas. This means that there is indeed a potential in the school sector for finding good ways to organise education, for example. to achieve better results. So it's not like Norway has a poor school. Norway has the richest school in the world. Unfortunately, we do not have the best results to show. So those two things maybe we should get to match a little bit better. And that's what the Right is trying to do, by doing something in relation to the content of school, in relation to the way we organize it, and in relation to freedom. Some of the parties on the Storting are more concerned with other things than the content and the teaching itself. Therefore, they want to maintain as much earmarked schemes as possible, giving priority to the eartags rather than to the content.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17.ana.ud979e1061	I am not asking for the 2004 framework to be assessed by the Council of State. I am asking for her assessment of the 2005 framework. For even after the improvement of the structure of the Labour Party for 2004, one must expect to enter 2005 with a severe deficit in the municipal sector. The government’s plans for 2005 are barely enough to cover the increase in expenditure as a result of population changes. The range presented by the Government allows for a significantly lower transfer than the population change resulting from increased expenditure. Then my question is: how can the Minister of State justify the government providing a financial arrangement for the municipalities which must certainly lead to a substantial increase in the deficit in the municipal sector in 2005?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17.ana.ud979e1070	Let me just add in the last answer, that measured in dollars, we spend more money in 2004 at school than we ever did in the past. For the range between 750 million. NOK 1.5 billion and NOK 1.5 billion, I would say that if we manage to keep free revenues of SEK 1.5 billion, which is the tip of the interval, we will be able to maintain it even in relation to demographic developments. So if we can't achieve that goal, we're going to be a little bit lower than demographic development. But then the municipal sector must assume that they need to change to find smarter solutions in order to maintain a good service provision. And there's still enough room for that, not least when we see how many municipalities still don't know what the composition of their expenses is, and how poor they have about how the cost increases are. But my ambition is, of course, that we're going to have room to reach the extreme point of the local government sector interval. But it depends on what we end up with by other impositions, and economic development.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17.ana.ud979e1077	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17.ana.ud979e1080	The budgetary agreement between the Right, the Christian People's Party, the Left and the Progressive Party on the municipal pro-position for next year provides a sober but responsible structure that should provide a sound economic space for action overall for the Norwegian municipal sector in 2005. The agreement between the government parties and the Progress Party ensures a growth in the total income of the municipal sector between 2 billion and DKK 2.5 billion. At the same time, the municipal sector is experiencing a very solid real growth in total revenue from 2003/2004, estimated at more than 7.5 billion. In addition, low price growth and low interest rates will continue to benefit municipalities in 2005. The growth in real income of the municipality has been increasing throughout all years. Income increases have been partly very high over time, but at the same time the expenditure growth of municipalities has also been significant, as a result of new reforms, increased diversity of tasks and increasing numbers of people using the various municipal services and welfare services. In recent years, however, income growth has been lower than expenditure growth, so the local government sector has experienced some significant deficits. The growing deficits in the local government sector give cause for concern, and effective measures to correct the financial imbalances are required. While the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre only seem to have a single solution to the financial problems of the municipalities, namely to transfer more and more money from the state to the municipalities, the Progress Party and the government parties have a more nuanced view of the use of instruments to correct this imbalance. Civilian parties are much more positively positioned to use instruments such as competitive outsourcing and conversion to promote quality and save money in the municipal sector. The criticism of the socialist parties against the economic structure of the municipal sector in the agreement between the government parties and the Progress Party must be seen as excessive and unfounded, for once again the municipalities are getting a real growth in their revenues. The main future challenge for the Norwegian municipal sector is not the lack of money alone, but the willingness to convert and change an old-fashioned organisational and operational structure, thus facilitating better use of resources. Where both operations and services in the municipal sector are largely organised as a public monopoly without any form of efficiency-enhancing competition, it is very close to assuming that the operating costs are unnecessarily high and the quality is not good enough. The lack of competition to carry out the municipal tasks has led many Norwegian municipalities to have never put any real pressure on themselves to organise and carry out the tasks in a cheaper and better way, as private companies have always had to do. Market and competition are by no means worse for the public sector than they are for the private sector. All municipal operations and services should be subject to competition law, as private business has always been. Although competitive outsourcing in the municipal sector is not directly prohibited, the municipalities have, in reality, a monopoly position in the area of welfare – due to widespread local policy resistance to competition. However, more and more reports are coming to suggest that municipalities are not able to make good and efficient use of resources and that there is a high economic savings potential in competitive outsourcing. Nevertheless, the socialists boast one-sided about more money to the municipal sector, while panicking against competitive outsourcing. No municipality that opposes the competitive outsourcing should be allowed to complain. Consideration should be given to imposing a legal obligation on municipalities to outsource operations and the provision of services. An obligation for municipalities to operate active competitive outsourcing in all areas where they are currently providing services under their own control would have created a welfare market where price and quality would be more focused, for the benefit of both users and taxpayers. Welfare consumers must be offered full freedom of choice between municipal and private actors in school, health and care for the elderly. Over time, competitive outsourcing, freedom of choice and supply diversity will provide better and cheaper services in all these important welfare areas, which is essential if the welfare community is to maintain sustainability and legitimacy in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17.ana.ud979e1106	In the municipal proposition, we again see a clear distinction between the policies of the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre Party, and the one for which the right side, the Right and the Christian People's Party, is in favour - well followed by the Advance Party. The government's proposal to increase the funding for municipalities by DKK 22.5 billion for next year - which today receives a majority because the Progress Party supports it - will provide a significantly lower service and cut-off in school and care for the elderly. The working party disagrees and believes that such an increase is too small, as we know the situation in the municipalities. 114 municipalities are subject to state supervision. The deficit in the sector is estimated at more than DKr 13 billion. We will support an increase of between DKK 3 and 4 billion in the free income of the municipal sector for next year. The Workers' Party believes that it is unacceptable for children and older people to cheat because the Government prioritizes tax relief to the richest rather than welfare and security. The scheme for 2005 presented by the Bondevik II government to the municipalities is the worst it has ever presented. Next year there will be a growth of only 1 pst. In other words, the proposed growth in free income barely covers the additional expenditure in 2005 related to changes in population composition, among others. That we get more older. At the same time, the Government says that it aims to increase the freedom of action for municipalities. What increased freedom of action will municipalities have in 2005? Of course none - except for the freedom of action to make necessary offers to the inhabitants and to cancel municipal employees. That is what the majority - the government parties and the Progress Party - are sending out today to its 434 municipalities and 18 counties. The majority today decides to send even more municipal employees on leave. Of course, part of the increased unemployment rate is a consequence of poor local economy. It also confirms Aetate numbers. At the end of May 2004, 36 psts were recorded. more unemployed persons in the health, care and care sectors compared to the situation in January 2003. This affects not least the districts, where there are very often no other jobs to get within acceptable commuter distances. It's strange that the Christian People's Party can participate in such a priority. It also seems to be the rapporteurs and local politicians of almost all the Christian People's Party. For the current year, the Workers' Party saved the situation by demanding more for the municipalities in the budget. The municipalities received NOK 2.2 billion more than the government provided. Many politicians from the Christian People's Party and from the Right Jubilee. It is far from certain that the Workers' Party will once again become the saving angel. Now there is a settlement with the Advance Party - without a single crown in increase here in Stortinget. It's not surprising. The Progress Party has money for the municipalities only in the revised budget. It's funny--to say it mildly. The government will return part of the corporate tax to the municipalities. Again we see large and sudden changes over the night that affect very many municipalities negatively, cf. what happened a year ago in the case of drug transfers and psychiatry. Many of the same municipalities get negative again. The opposite happens to those who are going to get more money. The mountains still seem to be the well-designed one in the struggle for more money. How does the Government feel that the communities that are coming out badly on time are going to face such a difficult challenge? That the state council might be able to tell these municipalities. All the municipalities in Østfold lost last year - over 30 million. kr for the conversion of the cost key for drugs and psychiatry. Now, the same municipalities are to be re-affected by the conversion of corporate tax. Eastfold municipalities are losing another $40 million. kr. This is totally unacceptable. The Labour Party rejects the entire proposal for the return of company tax now. We believe that this needs to be seen in the context of the whole system of funding for the municipal sector and addressed by the Committee on Income Systems, which is now in the middle of this work, and will present its position by the end of 2005. With the Workers' Party's increased framework of between 3 and 4 billion, Eastfold would receive 133 million. kr more. It would have been a good and necessary contribution.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17.ana.ud979e1132	I'll try to be short. I take note of the President's request at the beginning of the sitting. It is not possible to enter the details in five minutes in a setting that has not been included in committee treatment. Gro Harlem Brundtland said in his time that everything was related to everything. The Coastal Party agrees. A main problem in municipalities is falling tax income and increasing pension costs. It's not the result of more employees, but it's the result of the Right-wing policy. The goal was to release workplaces. Between 20 000 and 30 000 job vacancies for disabled persons are now released. Also released are between 17 000 and 20 000 industrial workplaces. We have just addressed the shipping message, and more workplaces will undoubtedly be released in the maritime industries. Municipalities rapidly release jobs for administrative staff, teachers and nurses. Overall, this results in significant tax losses for municipalities. What does the Ministry of Local Affairs intend to do to compensate for this loss of tax that they themselves have suffered? When the release takes the form of forced early retirement and when job-seekers are asked to apply for disability benefits, this leads to a significant increase in expenditure both for pension funds and for the social security budget. Everyone was hit by the strikes this summer. It should show that pensions are important. Yeah, maybe it's important that we get cheap labour from the Eastern bloc countries. I think it was part of triggering the strikes we had this summer. In addition, figures from the agricultural, agricultural and fisheries sectors show that a significant number of annual works have been released in these sectors. The voluntary incentive scheme in the fisheries sector should be concerned. The sale of milk quotas leads to fewer and fewer farmers. It means lost tax revenue. These are good examples. Government wants new growth, but inhibits growth. The economic development of municipalities is being hampered. The municipalities are forced to establish bombings, which increasingly withdraw the activity of industry from the districts. Once again, the car owners are supposed to be the country's dairy cow. The Coastal Party regrets that the government's policy slowly suffocates the local government's economy, and that it does not take responsibility for it through transfers that hit the municipalities that need it the most. The Coastal Party wishes to support any proposal that would improve the finances of its municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17.ana.ud979e1156	The president missed the conclusion that the country is being sold piece by piece and divided, but it might come next time.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17.ana.ud979e1159	I should have said that, but it'll be another time!
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17.ana.ud979e1164	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17.ana.ud979e1167	Today's debate leaves no doubt that many municipalities are struggling financially. It is also true, as KS claims, that the financial situation in the municipal sector is weak and that there is a need for measures that can help to improve this situation. It is therefore necessary for the Ministry and the KS to continue positive consultation arrangements in order to assess together how a balance sheet can be restored. However, it is equally necessary that municipalities themselves look at possible changes in their own organisation and level of activity. Moreover, the municipal structure is a clear element in this context. For a long time, this has been in the forefront of this, and I am sure it will produce results in the future. The representative, Mr. Reidar Sandal, came in his speech with tough results against competitive outsourcing and privatisation. No positive elements were shown. I think it's strange that the Workers' Party can never draw out the good examples, that they can never draw out the satisfied users or show that there are actually many satisfied employees. Strong municipalities, with a high degree of freedom of action, will be best able to provide the citizens with the necessary services. Framework financing must then be the main financing model for the local government sector. Therefore, the number and amount of earmarked grants should be limited in the future. I'm sorry the opposition won't be involved. I regret that the opposition does not want stronger municipalities, which can better meet the needs of users for the good services. In addition, I find it strange that you do not see the benefit of releasing detailed government reporting requirements and adjustments. I am pleased with the budget agreement with the Progress Party. It ensures that we address key challenges in the municipal sector. For the municipal sector as a whole, it would be beneficial to return a share of the corporation tax to the municipalities. This will strengthen the incentives of municipalities to drive business development, and it will better ensure business start-up at local level. However, many municipalities are losing weight to the proposed model, and it is therefore positive that the scheme now receives a broader investigation, so that it is best to ensure a good decision-making basis when the case comes back to the Stortingen to the harvest, because one cannot ignore the fact that this conversion comes at a time when the municipalities are faced with major challenges through changes in the income system and major reforms that have just been adopted here in the Stortingen. It depends on the eyes that see, it says. But when I listen to parts of the opposition, especially SV and the Center Party, I am turned off by the negativity. I want to say that I strongly distance myself from all the black paint, because Norway is the world's best country to live in.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17.ana.ud979e1180	Government and greatness are full of goodwill and understanding for Oslo's special social problems and full of honorary words when Oslo is referred to as the capital. One speaks of the capital as the economic engine, as the face outwards. But these approaches to celebrations that we experience from time to time are muttering when the harsh realities are discussed. When it comes to economics and economic distribution between municipalities, the verbal understanding of Oslo is subdued. The government's proposal to bring parts of the corporate tax back to the municipality is isolated a good thing for Oslo. However, when the reversal is seen in the context of the proposed income equalisation, it leads to a loss for Oslo of about 160 million. kr. Then it's in place to remind the Storting about the history of corporate tax and Oslo. When corporation tax was made public, Oslo received a capital grant that would partially compensate for the loss of corporation tax. Despite this, Oslo’s net loss was 300 million at the time. kr. We received further losses of income as the capital grant later fell away. And now, with the present proposal, Oslo will lose another 160 million. kr. The government's proposal for a municipal economy implies a certain real growth for the municipalities. Oslo municipality does not get a share of this growth. Now, the Workers' Party is the first to remember that the Municipality of Oslo does not use its own income potential - what is in the property tax. But it cannot defend the fact that a systemically punishes the country's capital and the country's largest municipality. If Oslo is to be able to perform its tasks, the municipal income system must be such that it can. And I want to remind you of the special challenges Oslo has; it's a municipality with great differences, with many below the poverty line, the municipality has the highest immigrant share in the country, and it's a place for people with drug problems and homeless. A fair income system must take this into account.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17.ana.ud979e1193	When I travel around the country, I see growth and new construction everywhere; Oslo is adorned around the Storting, driving in and out of Bergen is an adventure now compared to ten years ago -- just as a few examples. In one of the world's richest countries, with a public sector that may seem like a utopia to many of the world's nations, the description of misery in this debate has also been almost entirely from the left. It'll be a little unreal. Nevertheless, the Christian People's Party sees many municipalities struggling. Several older people - and there may be more after all - and other demographic challenges and tax revenue failures are examples of reasons for which the economy is tighter than one might imagine. So lower interest rates, decreasing unemployment, and a business life with an emerging optimism moment that is conducive to a brighter future. But let it be clear: the Christian People's Party is still looking for opportunities to strengthen the municipal economy. Of course, just passing on a situation where sub-coverage is recognised is problematic. But the Christian People's Party also believes that greater freedom, simplification, reduction of laws and rules - in short, a simpler Norway - can provide better solutions and thus better economy in the Municipality of Norway. The Christian People's Party does not regard the municipal proposition as optimal. We thought it was little fun that the company tax model was not chosen. This means uncertainty for municipalities as to what they can count on next year, and it undermines much of the purpose of the municipality's proposal, namely that the municipalities get a more conservative situation. But we'll have some more time. And when corporate taxes and symmetric income blending are to be fixed at the cottage, the Christian People's Party will be very attentive to the results of the many small district municipalities that have lost on several of the changes in the income system. It's important to us that these aren't the ones that are left with the bill after the conversion of corporate tax. And then I'm going to add that symmetric income smoothing at all costs is a very positive, simple and fair blending between rich and poor municipalities. It's an important change, which fuels both greater attention and commitment to the cause.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17.ana.ud979e1208	The center party is concerned about how we can ensure our children and grandchildren a good school. It is the municipalities that are responsible for the school's finances. Now we know that many municipalities are struggling financially, and that also leads to cuts in school budgets. Later today we are going to debate St.meld. No 30 for 2003-2004, Culture for learning. The message covers the entire basic training and contains a number of measures that will be included and provide a better school. However, a prerequisite for this is the presence of economic resources, so that good schools can be run and the measures taken, among other things. this message alerts. The government’s tax warning policy in the future gives cause for concern as to whether measures and efforts at school are really being implemented. For what is the situation in school today? Yes, Econ Analysis states in this year's report on municipal education budgets: "The decline in resource usage for each student will continue" There will be more students per year. teachers, less money is spent on new equipment and more schools are laid down. The number of splitting hours has been drastically reduced, and this will continue, affecting the weak students. The report concludes that the number of teacher’s hours per Student is reduced by 3 pst. in primary school since this government joined. In 289 municipalities, there are more students per day. teacher, and in higher education, the drop in teacher density from 2002 until last year is 4 pst. It is established that this development will continue in the absence of a grip. Is that how we create a better school? The centre party will work towards a significant improvement in the finances of the municipalities. We've done our priority. There are many who have both underlined and accused the Central Party in this debate. We've said that we want to bet on school, and we've followed our promises in the election campaign of the many parents and children who see that this is important. I don't think all the parties in this room can say the same thing that you've been to school. I think it's important -- and I want to say that -- to listen to all the signals that come about big cuts in education budgets around. The local politicians don't want to do it, but they're actually forced to do it because the local government budgets require it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17.ana.ud979e1228	Symmetrical income smoothing is more fair than the income smoothing we have today. That's what SV agrees with. However, SV will encourage the Government to at least follow its own thinking when they have submitted a tax notice in which, for the first time in history, they also dare to say that tax on dividends is to be paid. When the richest have to, the government realized that they had to mourn that pill a little bit and give out some other tax cuts. But when the local government sector is going to substantially change its income, it is going to be done at the same time as it is going to be tightened up, and then the government has to admit that it is completely impossible for many municipalities to accept this, because it is happening in a situation where they already have too little money. So if you want to make such changes, you have to do it in a situation where there is a balance between the economy and where it is possible for the municipalities to do it. Then the representative Holmberg from the Right says that Norway is the world's best country to live in. Yes, it is for most people, and it gets better and better, especially for those who have the most. I want to ask the representative Holmberg from the Right -- it's an important value question -- if that's the most important thing we can do to prioritize. Right doesn't. SV, the Workers' Party and the Center Party do this because, among other things, we give priority to: The school, where State Council Solberg admits that there will be fewer teachers, there will be larger classes, and at the same time the Council of State is fully aware that there are students in the Norwegian school who are not even learning to read and write. That the answer then is that there should be fewer teachers, that there should be larger classes, and that there should be fewer sharing hours, it is completely impossible to understand both for us in SV and for all teachers and for all the parents I've talked to. It's impossible to understand that it's going to be a proper priority. It is absolutely impossible to understand why the school, where students are going to learn what is important, what they are going to do for the future, is going to depend on technology, on having the opportunity to get out of society and have contact with it, and on being able to have modern, up-to-date learning materials at all times. That it's forward-looking is impossible to understand. So that the right-hand side believes that especially SV is concerned with detailed management, and that there are many government schemes. I just want to remind the government and the majority that last year they introduced a new VAT compensation scheme. We have received enquiries from a lot of municipalities saying that they actually have to use annual work - bureaucratic annual work - on this new scheme. From the SV's point of view, it is quite clear that we would rather have an assistant nurse or a teacher rather than a new bureaucrat to sit and count on.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17.ana.ud979e1237	I am a little surprised, but not surprised, when the Workers' Party and SV disagree with the market thinking in the municipal sector. They believe that the development of municipalities should be politically directed, and this can be partly agreed, but it should be politically directed at the market, i.e. the population, conditions and premises. Research shows that the trend both in Norway and in other countries is that we move to more market thinking, and that the population will be able to choose what offer they will have and how they will have these offers. This cannot and should not govern politicians. Citizens must have the freedom to choose. Karin Andersen mentioned in his article the nursery arrangement and that it is now being added that there is room for everyone in the nursery, i.e. Anyone who wants to. Now it's going to be like this once that everyone is going to fit in a kindergarten, hopefully not in the same one. Most municipalities have several kindergartens, both municipal and private, i.e. the choice of parents. The same holds that the Progress Party should apply in several areas, including: in the care sector and school. This can happen when the money follows the user and competition so that the quality of the services is improved and service providers have to compete for users and residents. The market, i.e. citizens, shall direct the development of the municipalities, not the politicians. It is regrettable that the socialists want a sort of democracy, with the slogan: choose us, and we will rule you.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17.ana.ud979e1246	The Social Committee discussed earlier in our St.meld. No 45 for 2002–03 Improve the quality of municipal care services. Here, too, tenders and competitive tendering are a central instrument of the Government. But then the question is whether this is an effective tool, both in terms of costs and quality. That's what the big message says a lot about. In the case of costs, the Government of Great Britain states that: "It is therefore difficult to say exactly about the potential for cost reductions in the local government sector on a general basis." Furthermore, in connection with Aplan's investigation in Trondheim: "The investigation does not show any significant cost-reducing effect of the competitive launch." What goes on to say is: "When it comes to the use of supply competitions, most studies indicate that this has the greatest impact on costs in the short term." It is therefore true that when a service is put out for competition, those who want to enter this market and win the competitive bidding process will put in a low price and these costs will gradually rise. So it's the way that competitive outsourcing itself makes it possible for those who work in this sector to run even faster and do the work in even shorter time. What about the quality? Econ has summarized experiences from both Sweden and Norway about this. They conclude by: "ECON's analyses do not show significant findings relative to changes in "objective" measurable or user-defined quality." In summary, then, what we have from experience and serious investigations gives little reason to say that costs or quality are affected in a positive way by the outsourcing and outsourcing of competition. In spite of this, the Government Parties and the Advance Party will nevertheless facilitate more competitive outsourcing and tenders in the municipalities. In the light of what I have said, this can only have one reason: the ideological. The government also says in St.meld. No 45: "The drug target of being exposed to competition itself acts as an incentive to operate the business more effectively." Well, it's the threats that are going to make the services better, and not cooperate with the employee.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17.ana.ud979e1283	Much of the debate has been about competitive outsourcing and privatisation. The last speaker was referring to this with ideology. I must be allowed to say that for the Progress Party, we have no principle that everything should be privatised. There's no desire on our part that we privatize everything, that's not the goal. For us, the goal is for those in need of services to be more able to determine the quality of the services they receive. It's not that because if we use a tendering principle and get more competition into the picture, it's released in relation to people running faster, and there's going to be more pressure in the workplace. The authorities are still the ones to regulate. I think it is a little sad that when you talk about competition and services, it should be so black and white. Competition works in many other areas, and then I think it can also work in this field. I would just like to comment briefly on the proposal No. 16, 17 and 18, from the Progress Party. As regards proposal No: 16, there is an almost equivalent proposal from the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre's Party in the vote, i.e. proposal for Decision V. The only difference is that we believe that if there is to be any proposal for that type of plan, there must be thoroughness on the basis. Then we have to spend some more time, and I don't think that such discussions will lead to any results if we are to get this into the 2005 budget. That is why we propose here that the Government should be able to submit a proposal in the 2006 municipal bill. As regards proposal No: 17, it is only a clarification of the agreement we have concluded with the government parties that the Government of the State budget for 2005 follows up the agreement between the Ministry of Social Affairs and the host municipalities in 2005. It's a clarification, it might be a little unclear, what's in the notes and in the agreement, but from the Progress Party it's very important that we follow up that agreement. I regret that proposal No. 18 is a little bit unclear. The point of view of the Progress Party is to include the 14-municipal group in the compensation scheme for the employer’s contribution. We believe that this matter is not fully resolved yet, and that the Government should consider whether these 14 municipalities should also be included in the compensation scheme in which the rest of the Municipality-Norway participates.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17.ana.ud979e1297	I'd like to comment on two aspects. One is the partial reversal of corporation tax. When the government here provides a model where seven municipalities, from the South and the North, seem to get more money, for example. Six out of 21 municipalities in Rogaland seem to get more money, the rest get less, it's a model that the Center Party cannot accept. We also have ears in relation to the point of view that comes in. I would like to remind you that both the KS and the LVK think one should look at such a conversion in connection with the work that is going on about the income system. There is now an insecurity created from the plural on how the situation turns into the fall. There was a similar insecurity at that time last year. Then it was a rush and a psychiatry. Then the government got back into a separate case, but there was no change in a comma in the distribution relative to what was in the municipal proposition. I hope that the Progress Party here has protected itself a little better than last year. Then there have been various debts when it comes to black measurement. I thought it would be just as crazy whether we did a black polling or a beauty measurement of the situation in Kommune-Noreg. Our approach is realism. It's said from both the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party that we want simplification. We want modernisation and more efficient, but we want them to be involved. The centre party believes that the best resource the municipalities have is happy and qualified to add. This means that, in addition to modernisation, there is a need for consistency between tasks and resources and the need for a plan to correct the economy. The last two recordings have arrived in the last 24 hours. The City Council in Lillesand has taken decisions to protest against both government and big business in the local economy. The President-in-Office of the right shall meet with the Council of State on this matter. The second recording is from the education director in Rogaland, who finds reason to report when it is due in the school. It's not a black measurement to be realistic about the future. It is the most important thing we have in this country. It's about securing a good school for our children.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17.ana.ud979e1308	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[See page 3484]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17.ana.ud979e1323	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3487]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17.ana.ud979e1338	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3487]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17.ana.ud979e1353	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3487]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17.ana.ud979e1368	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3488]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17.ana.ud979e1383	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3488]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17.ana.ud979e1400	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3488]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17.ana.ud979e1415	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3488]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17.ana.ud979e1430	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3488]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17.ana.ud979e1446	No one has asked for the floor. At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 12 and 13 are treated together. [[See page 3488]] - It is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17.ana.ud979e1475	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 40 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Right 20 minutes, Advance Party 15 minutes, Socialist Left Party 15 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes, Coast Party 5 minutes. In addition, the representative Jan Simonsen will have a speaking time of 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers of each party group and five lines with replies after the contributions of members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested by those who have to sign up for the speaker list in addition to the allocated speaking time, that they have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17.ana.ud979e1486	It is an exciting setting we have for treatment today. The follow-up to the 'Culture for Learning' school message has triggered many debates throughout School-Norway. I would like to thank the Committee for constructive contributions and for the challenges I have had as rapporteur-in-Office. It's been both rewarding and demanding, and I'm glad to say that we're presenting an attitude that shows that we're together on the school's goals: giving children and young people education, personal development, knowledge and skills. The Committee stresses the role of the school as a cultural and valuer and that teachers are the school's main resource. This is why we are united in facilitating a historic lift of skills that is of central importance to the development of a better school. Greater local freedom for schools must be followed up, including: by up to 25 pst. hours in a trade may be disposed of locally. We will strengthen counselling, develop parental cooperation, have several hours in childhood, renew youth, maintain the right to special education and improve adapted training for all. The basic skills shall be integrated into the new curricula for all subjects. There are also a number of minority proposals in the vote, which I expect the individual parties to comment on themselves. I would further point out that there is a majority behind the government's school reform on all the essential points. In addition to the above, it is a majority, of the Party of Advancement and Government Parties, in order to introduce admission requirements for teacher training, to simplify the structure of secondary education and to increase the requirements for study competence. Together with the Workers' Party and the Advancement Party, we agree to introduce mandatory second language foreign language at the youth level, and national tests should continue to support learning and ensure adapted training. Together with the Workers' Party, the Advance Party and the Centre Party, we agree to introduce the freedom of method for schools by abolishing the "Broen" and introducing the "School Plaka/Teaching Plaka" instead. One of the problems in school is that much is regulated at the level of detail. Therefore, more than in the past, we will trust the teachers and give them the freedom to choose the organisation and design of teaching. For the Christian People's Party, the role of the school consists of two equally important elements: it must form and educate. They're equivalent and mutually dependent. "The most important story in the ten-year comprehensive school syllabus is still the record of the merciful Samaritan," wrote Alfred Oftedal Telhaug in the Evening Post last autumn. "The school's task is to develop students both as citizens, as cultural people and as fellow human beings." He further points out: "The students cannot evolve as independent and creative people without the strenuous work of acquiring knowledge and skills." "No independence without knowledge, no creativity without knowledge." The School Communication introduces five basic skills which are to be provided throughout the curricula for all subjects on each subject’s premises. These are reading, writing, billing, digital competence and verbal expression. The school shall also develop students through work on values, ethics and culture. Learning and skill objectives shall not be at the expense of the role of the contractor. The education of the general public shall characterise the entire curriculum and be continuous in the course of training. Skills must not reduce the need for ethical, social and cultural competence. The school shall contribute to the overall competence of the students. This is why the interaction between the educational and educational role of the school is so important. To develop a good school, we need many and competent teachers. Teachers are the school’s most important resource! The Christian People's Party is particularly pleased that the teachers are now to be given a level of competence. Over the next few years, NOK 2-3 billion will be spent on this. It's a good investment. We need motivated and committed teachers to create a better school. Education research shows that the teacher is crucial to the student’s learning outcomes. It is therefore important for the development and learning of children and young people that we have good enough teachers in school. The role of teachers is under strong pressure to constantly adapt and address new challenges. Therefore, we need to have a good teacher’s training and contribute to the appreciation and respect of the teaching profession. Parents are engaged in school every day. That's what I'm talking about. That's what I'm talking about. That's what I'm talking about. I have received many enquiries from worried parents who are concerned about the school. This is good, because the parents have a big impact on the students' relationship with the school. At the same time, we know that the quality of parental cooperation varies greatly from school to school. In several schools, cooperation has been vitalised by the fact that schools and parents themselves have established local cooperation venues. The Christian People's Party wants to provide opportunities for new channels for participation. That way, we can revitalize parental cooperation in school. The legal provisions of the School/Home Cooperation Training Act shall be maintained in order to underline the right of all parents to cooperate with the school. But it is a fundamental problem that the members of the Parental Committee for Primary School - FUG - are appointed by the state and not directly elected by parents. On the one hand, the FUG Consulting Body and the Ministry’s adviser are on behalf of parents; on the other hand, the FUG shall provide advice and information to parents. That is why the Christian People’s Party wants school parents to have their own elected and independent speakers before the authorities. This will give parents a real influence over children’s school days. A solid lashing from below and contact with the basic plan are prerequisites for a parent sample at national level. The primary responsibility for child education lies with the parents. The outcome of the school's efforts will depend on the interaction between home and school. The Christian People's Party will therefore strengthen this interaction and stimulate parents to participate in the school's work. Training in Norwegian is being strengthened. We have two parallel writing languages in Norway. Knowledge of and use of both forms of writing enriches our Norwegian language. For this reason, written training is continued in triplicate. At the same time, measures shall be implemented to improve training in new Norse. The Ministry will set up a national centre for neo-normous training. The activities are set up in conjunction with the Ivar Aasen Institute at the Högskulen in Volda, which is to guide the development of the subject's content, working methods and assessment methods, contribute to the development of competence and provide guidance to schools in the work on motivation and learning of neuron. I believe it was a good agreement with the Workers' Party about the model we found in the Norwegian exam. I am pleased that there will be one written exam in Norwegian in primary school where students will be tested in both primary and secondary objectives, and that the mid-term exam will be converted into a draft subject. In addition, national samples will contain tasks in both target forms. The extent of this is determined by a more detailed assessment and in cooperation with the professional communities concerned. The Christian People's Party will strengthen the advisory service. A high-quality educational and professional advisory service can contribute to safer choices, less delays and better opportunities for individual students to realise their skills and facilities. The central part of the advisory role is acute competence for individual guidance and support for students in their choices. It is therefore necessary to establish more provision of continuing training. Vocational and training guidance should also be included in teacher training in order to enhance competence. Recent research shows that a significant percentage of today’s school students have some major mental problems, including: as a result of the value pressure under which they live and the lack of adult contact. The Christian People's Party believes it is essential to take the problems of young people seriously. A good social educational counselling service is therefore also important. The Christian People's Party has previously highlighted and will again stress the importance of the renewal of youth. The cancellation message follows up on this with, among other things. propose better adapted training, more practical content and greater possibilities for immersion through programme proposals. The review of reform 97 concludes that there is a particular need for changes at the youth level. Therefore, efforts are needed to increase the level of knowledge and thus also be able to do more with the learning environment. Research and educational development in relation to youth must therefore be strengthened. When up to 25 pst. The number of hours can be used for local organisation, giving schools great opportunities to achieve better adapted training. The Government’s strategy for entrepreneurship in training should stimulate the growth of youth enterprises. This is linked to the school and contributes to varied and practical training. The objective of renewing youth must also be given priority in terms of increasing the competence of teachers in youth. In the case of secondary education, it is important to remove structural barriers that prevent students from completing the training. We are therefore making some adjustments to the Government's structure, so that there will now be nine vocational education programmes and three study specialists. I'd like to mention an incurrency. On page 36, first column of the configuration, three words must be removed, namely: "media, communication and", so that there will be standing "a real depression in the field of design". Media and communication are maintained as a separate educational programme, so that design and crafts stay together. Natural management is shifted to natural use in the professional programme and one of the four programme areas will be called the social sciences and the economy. Design subjects shall have 1309 years and ethics shall be included in the curricula also in the vocational training programmes.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17.ana.ud979e1550	The representative, Elsa Scarbøvik, has fixed a bug. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17.ana.ud979e1555	An important issue for the Workers' Party has been to expand the hours at primary school, at kindergarten, so that we can get more space for basic education, physical activity and homework. I recorded last year that the parliamentary leader of the Christian People's Party, Jon Lilletun, said this was a socialist airlock. In the budget agreement for the current year, we agreed to extend the hours from the harvest. Then came the Government, with the Christian People's Party, proposing to extend further from next year by. We are very pleased about that, but there are still too few hours compared to the arrangement for which the Workers' Party and SV are in favour. Does that mean that the "red danger" is a little less, and that the Christian People's Party will help us realize our "airlock," or, I would say, our vision for primary school with an increased number of hours? And will they agree to take a step further when we have completed what is now getting a majority here in the Storing today?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17.ana.ud979e1564	I don't know if there's any point in realizing an airlock. The Christian People's Party has agreed on the five hours that are now coming to the harvest, and that it is expanded by another three hours next year. Then the Christian People's Party wants to prioritize resources in a different way, namely by focusing on the teachers. Now we want to give priority to the level of competence of teachers. It costs money to expand school hours, and in addition, you need teachers to teach in these hours. It turns out from studies that it's very dependent on the teacher how the dividends of these hours are going to be. That's why we've now prioritised the issue of professional competence for teachers and not any further expansion, for the time being, at the nursery.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17.ana.ud979e1571	Case rapporteur Skarbøvik of the Christian People's Party has spoken hotly for increased room for action to the schools. It is a principle that the Progress Party supports and subscribes to. What is important is that the increased space for action is not a space for saving, but a space for quality development. Therefore, we are somewhat surprised that the Christian People's Party is not concerned with strengthening supervision, so that when, on the one hand, we increase the space for action and have confidence that the traders are acting sensibly, we are also guarded afterwards by strengthened supervision, as we see it in many other European countries it is natural to compare with. Then the representative Skarbøvik of the Christian People's Party spoke warmly about parental influence. Further to the idea of supervision, we also see from countries that we can gain experience from giving parents a role in supervision. Will the Christian People’s Party help strengthen supervision and also give parents influence?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17.ana.ud979e1578	I fully agree with Mr Sortevik that it is important to increase the scope for action. And we're now going to fix that. At the same time, quality development will also be strengthened. That is why I believe that we are aware of the fact that this is getting better, among other things. also through the national tests, and through good follow-up by the education directors, and it works well. The Christian People's Party is therefore pleased with what is now being added to it, that you can follow up on how school development will now progress, and that parents will be involved in school. I strongly underlined that I now wanted a new model for parental organisation by building it up from below. Parents are therefore given a representative body so that they can follow up even better and be representatives of schools and parents.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17.ana.ud979e1583	Elsa Scarbøvik said that the teachers show confidence in the setting and message and that they are given greater local freedom. I have a hard time seeing what that means. I see that 25 pst. hours shall be available locally, but there are also strong indications in the majority of the observations. We're going to maintain the exam, we're going to have curricula the same way as before, the "Broen" is going to be replaced by "Placard," and it's also going to be regulation. We're going to have tests that are mandatory, and there's going to be several mandatory subjects in almost the same hour. Where is local freedom? It's very difficult to see where it is, and what this implies by local freedom. On the contrary, it becomes a central government that makes local freedom less than it has been in the past, because we know that there is something that governs activities now, and that characterizes what happens in school, it's central tests. And now we don't just get the exam, but we're going to have new tests that everyone is going to be subjected to. So, this is no more local freedom, rather the opposite.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17.ana.ud979e1588	I think we're adding up to a larger local freedom. The 25 pst. is not a trifle, it's not just something. That's actually 25 pst. of each subject's number of hours, and it may give a large number of results in terms of adapted training for each individual student. In addition, there must be still curriculums, but they must be different in that there are clear objectives to be set. But the way to achieve this goal is full freedom for the individual learner to figure out. What's big is just to take away the bridge, where there was a lot of control about how to achieve that goal. It's not in the new "school poster," so here it's less central management, while SV is holding the "Broen" and wants a clear method. SV was involved in the introduction of national tests. I can't see there's any big difference in this right now. We've agreed on this in Stortinget in the past, and we're going to go on with this.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17.ana.ud979e1597	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17.ana.ud979e1600	A good basic education is the entrance to full participation in society. Good education provides the basis for personal growth and a life of active action in common with others. The public school is the most important common meeting place in our society. Ensuring equal rights to education and creating a good school where different children can meet and develop with others has been and is very important for the Workers' Party. No children are equal, but everyone has the right to have the same opportunities. It is therefore important for the school to meet the individual’s learning needs and to ensure appropriate training. Not everyone has the same prerequisites for learning. This has been a common goal in school policy for many years. But unfortunately, we have to find that primary school has not been able to provide full equivalent training to all students. In the evaluation of L97, it is called inter alia: that the school seems to be best suited to those who are common and average. The evaluation of Reform 97 correctly shows that there is also a lot of good going on in primary school. The school is generally well reported by students, teachers and parents, but the evaluation also reveals that, unfortunately, there are considerable differences between classes, between schools and not least between municipalities. There is broad political agreement on many of the proposals that come from the quality committee's setting and are now presented in St.meld. No 30, Culture for learning. At the same time, the treatment of the Church, Education and Research Committee reveals that there are still political differences in education. But in my opinion, the main difference between the different parties doesn't go on content and quality at school or what students are going to learn, even though this is also clear nuances. The main contradiction between the right and the left is related to resource input and to the amount of Community resources they will allocate to ensure good quality of initial training. The compromise between the government parties and the Progress Party in a case earlier here today about the municipal economy does not promise well in following up all the good intentions we are making here today. The last working party was in government, we put down the Quality Committee. The aim was to increase the quality of basic education. The biggest message presented just before Easter by the State Council, Klemet, is based largely on the Quality Committee's settings. I am pleased that the Council of State has moderated Clamet in relation to a previous overdramatisation of the weaknesses of the Norwegian public school, and that she now determines that we have a good starting point to make the Norwegian school even better. It may have a basis in all the knowledge she has now gained. I am pleased that the fundamental objectives of the overall curriculum are being pursued and that the principles of reform 94 are being continued. Someone joins in reforms when they have been working for some time! The working party, together with the SV and the Centre Party, has a different approach to an overall aim of competence for the students. Of course, basic skills are important, but we believe, like the Quality Committee, that social skills and learning skills include: must be included as a central element. There has been a lot of debate about the national tests, and I think that the setting and joint comment between the Labour Party and the government parties is a good continuation of how one thinks about the national tests. I have recorded that the Council of State has also taken over some of the criticisms and questions about form, publication, time and that one should also have other criteria in relation to quality in school, which are to be used as a basis for an overall quality assessment. With that foundation and the fact that the Storting has joined in the introduction of national tests, I believe that it promises well in the future. I would also like to emphasise the compromise that the Workers' Party and the Government's parties have entered into with regard to the cross-target training. This is a very good basis for ensuring the widest possible consensus on the follow-up to secondary school education, which needs to be strengthened. I would just like to mention that we are maintaining the examination systems both in primary and secondary schools, even if it is made a draft course in high school. We also introduce testing in lateral dimensions in national samples. It seems a little strange to be in touch with the Right to introduce testing into lateral dimensions, but at least that is the content of the compromise. That is a good compromise, which I also believe is well accepted in the target movement and seen as a good basis for many possibilities. Of course, it is regrettable that government parties do not go far enough in extending school day. We believe that an extended and fixed time frame for the school day can enhance the quality of primary education. The working party therefore proposes to increase the number of hours by a total of 12 hours in its setting. Through this proposed increase in the number of hours, it is possible to achieve the objective of counselling, strengthening the central subjects of Norwegian, math and English and introducing physical activity every day. The working party believes that it is important that the students, especially in the first steps, are guaranteed a complete set-up. In this context, we also feel that the school leisure system belongs naturally. It's used by tens of thousands. We believe that the SFO should continue to be a voluntary offer to those who need it. Despite the fact that the scheme is a municipal responsibility, we find it regrettable that there are large differences in service provision and price between the different municipalities. A majority of the committee has previously asked the Department for a plan for the development of the SFO, and we find it a pity that the Department does not find reason to make such a plan. The Labour Party believes that small teaching groups and good teachers are essential in order to achieve the goal of more adapted and better training. At the same time, we believe that it is important that the students belong to an organisational unit and that they have a master teacher to deal with. That is why we support the proposal on basic groups in the vote. We believe it is important that the students are part of a social unit that is not too large. This will provide students with security while allowing the responsible contact teacher to follow up more closely on the individual student and home school contacts. According to the recommendation of the Quality Committee, the Working Party believes that such a group should be limited to 12-15 students. We register the government parties do not want to support this. I guess we think that's a little bit strange given the evolution we've seen in group sizes since the class division was lifted last year. The Labour Party is disappointed that the Government will build new barriers between professional and study preparation, including: by imposing stricter requirements on study competence. It bears witness to my opinion of a somewhat old-fashioned attitude, where universities and colleges should only be reserved for a certain type of student. The working party primarily considers that all those who have completed secondary education should be prepared for study. In this context, there is reason to recall that this was also the majority’s proposal in the Quality Committee, among others. with the following reasons: Initial training is significantly enhanced by a strong emphasis on basic competence/skills. Initial training has been extended and the adapted follow-up of the individual has to be reinforced. An adjusted curriculum and a renewed structure of secondary education provide increased depression and specialisation. There is a trend, both nationally and internationally, towards a reduction in the boundaries between education and training levels. For example, real competence is a principle used for admission to further studies. Quality reform means that higher education students are better followed up and that the learning environment is strengthened. In addition, several pilot projects have been successfully carried out. It is also confirmed in the recommendations of the Ministry. Since the 1970s, a basic objective for the development of secondary education has been to maximise the equivalency between practical and theoretical training. This development is trying to break the government. It is therefore a small pleasure that, despite this, the Government does not fully support its objective of making a clear distinction between professional and study-preparing directions. I refer then to the transfers made by the Committee in relation to the individual in the field of vocational education and training. The Labour Party is also pleased that a Joint Committee wishes to restore some subjects with general study competence to the vocational study programmes. A majority oppose the Government's proposal to weaken parental participation by asking the Ministry to maintain cooperation committees, parental councils and school committees. A majority of the Committee also wishes to maintain the role, responsibilities and organisational links of the FUG. We in the Workers' Party are very pleased about that. Parental participation is necessary and one must not put the parents in the position that they must first fight for new structures before they can take part in their responsibilities. It is important that we bet and strengthen the common school, so that it is not weakened as a Community arena. It is a fact that the level of education of parents still has a lot to say for pupils. Therefore, if we are to achieve the goal of tailor-made training for all, we cannot accept that already existing school-level differences are reinforced by fundamental changes in school. It is then important that the changes proposed here be continuously evaluated and that they be followed up with enough money.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17.ana.ud979e1660	The President wants to ask if any proposals should be made.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17.ana.ud979e1663	That's what I'm going to do. I thank you for the reminder, and take up the proposal from the Labour Party in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17.ana.ud979e1668	The representative of Vidar Bjørnstad has taken up the proposal he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17.ana.ud979e1673	There is a broad consensus on the teacher's importance for the school environment, the student's ability to get professional benefits, for well-being, for social climate in the class and for the school as a whole. The good teacher is in many ways gold worth to the school. This is why the Government has proposed - and the majority will support it - that admission requirements be introduced for teacher training. It's the Workers' Party against it. Does not the Workers' Party see the great importance that the teacher has for a better school? In the event that the answer to the question is yes, has not the Workers' Party considered a single action to be taken to ensure that the best students are recruited for teacher training and also to ensure that they are maintained in the school community?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17.ana.ud979e1680	I fully agree with the representative of Voie that the teacher is the most important person in the school in terms of training. We support virtually everything that is said about skills development for teachers in the paper, and also the suggestion that one will spend 2-3 billion kroner on strengthening skills development, not just for teachers, but for school staff. Of course, it remains to be seen whether we can manage to bring this into the budgets of each year, because we are not adopting a budget here today. There must be a call back to the ministry for us to meet a plan for the use of these funds. In terms of admission requirements, we had a full review of teacher training half a year ago. We don't think there's any basis for going in and changing parts of this. We believe that, in isolation, setting admission requirements today will remove the focus from what is most important, namely the content of the education that teachers receive in higher education.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17.ana.ud979e1687	The representative Vidar Bjørnstad from the Workers' Party was at the end of his article on parental assistance, and spoke hotly for it. The Advance Party is pleased that the Workers' Party is talking hot for parental assistance, because there is little about it in the Workers' Party's own programme. With one exception, there's nothing there. The exemption states that: "allow pupils, parents and teachers to participate in the evaluation and quality development of school and education". At the same time, the Labour Party says that they are strongly reserved to provide parents with information on the results of national tests. How can this be related? What information will the Workers' Party allow parents and supervisors to get about the school's results? And should the school's results be measured against something? Are they to be measured against national results, against regional results, against county results, against local and municipal results, or are they not to be measured at all? Is it perhaps the answer from the Workers' Party, that the results in school are preferably not to be measured?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17.ana.ud979e1699	If one is to take part in the views of the Labour Party on parental responsibility and parental participation in school, it is not just to read the batch program. But it is actually in the setting here today that our positions are being deepened, which we very much agree with the Progress Party on. In the case of national samples, they have two purposes. One is to measure a national average, and one can do by taking a statistical sample. However, the main objective is for national tests to be educationally supportive for each school, teacher and school owner. This means that we must follow the unanimous view of the Storting that compulsory tests should be carried out for several years. We don't go against publication, but we say that the assessment of the form, how and at what level, we want the ministry to cooperate with parent, student and teacher organisations. It is actually the same scheme as the State Council itself expressed in a letter to the Education Association.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17.ana.ud979e1708	SV is alone on a proposal where we ask the Government to consider investigating and making proposals for changes to the purpose paragraph. Today, we have a purpose paragraph that says that the school should help parents to give their children a Christian sentence. In a pluralistic society, where different religious and life views live side by side, it is clear that we cannot have such a paragraph. We know that the Value Commission set up a separate school group. This school group proposed a new purpose paragraph. It was a proposal that had broad support, from the Norwegian Church and most of the great religious and life views here in the country. In my opinion, we should seize this opportunity, where there is a broad consensus to go in and make changes to the purpose paragraph, just to give this signal to the different religious and life-view societies. Why will the Workers' Party not be involved in such an SV proposal? [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17.ana.ud979e1717	It will be answered by Vidar Bjørnstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17.ana.ud979e1721	He will.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17.ana.ud979e1726	The working party does not wish to take part in any stunt decision on an important theme relating to the purpose paragraph. [[Laughter]] It has been grounded since the previous round, when there was a broad consensus in the discussion about the CRL subject. We believe that there is a basis that can still be found there. I do not remember any of the hearing bodies that have been on the door to us in connection with the big message, thinking that there is a discussion that there was some point in taking this into account. So we don't see any grounds for resuming that discussion, but we think that it came about in 1996/1997, is a sensible position that brings together the widest possible support.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17.ana.ud979e1733	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17.ana.ud979e1736	The majority of the Committee takes the view that there is a clear prioritisation of knowledge and professional skills in schools. With increased freedom for school owners and school leaders, combined with a historically high level of teacher competence, an important basis for Norwegian school to evolve from the average and medium-sized to a school with results among the best. We make an important contribution to creating the world's best school in Norway. In many ways this represents a revolution in Norwegian basic education: from central and central governance to local freedom and space of action from centrally developed and detailed curricula to clearer target descriptions and performance requirements from centrally adopted forms and methods of work to a high degree of freedom for each school to choose the method, organisation and working methods from special education for the few to organized and individually adapted education for all students from the central school to a school with confidence in the individual teacher, school and schoolleader; In addition, Culture for Learning in many ways represents a settlement with several decades of faulty unit school thinking, where the mediocrity has been provided at the expense of both theoretically weak and theoretically strong students. Knowledge, diversity and equivalency are the pillars of our new school. Despite the fact that we are at the top of Europe in terms of resource efforts, we have only scored mediocrely. In addition, the sad fact is that up to 20 pst. students have left primary school without mastering their own native language. Much better is not the situation in mathematics either. At a time when knowledge and competence should be our main competitive advantage, it cannot continue to do so. Therefore, a clearer knowledge view of education and work in school is now being taken into account. Basic skills need to be learned in a better way. Only then will all students have equal opportunities to participate in the educational community, the working life and social activities. This is followed up by a system of national tests to enable students, parents, school owners and school owners to know how they are developing in relation to the objectives and expectations of curricula, and to take corrective action. The Government is taking advantage of the proposals contained in the Communication on most of the points. On some points, by an alternate majority, but mainly with the support of the Advance Party. As far as primary education is concerned, I have already mentioned the priority of basic skills and national tests. In addition, 2nd foreign languages are introduced as compulsory at the level of youth. Through an increasingly internationalised and globalised economy and in interaction with other countries, good language skills are an important competitive factor for Norway as a nation. In this context, there is reason to stress that the subject should be given a practical approach, which presents teachers with new challenges and the need for skills development. The systematic emphasis on basic numeracy and numeracy in primary schools now provides a good basis for increasing interest in the subject of mathematics. This is in many ways the foundation of real-life studies and engineering and technology studies. In all these areas, the search has been alarmingly low in recent years, with the negative consequences for both education and business and society as a whole. Although it must take a few years for us to see concrete ring-effects, this priority will produce positive results. In secondary schools, the requirements for general study competence are reinforced, while at the same time the professions are given a more practical approach with more professional theory than has been the case since reform 94. This is fully in line with feedback on needs and wishes from students, employers, colleges and universities. The majority of the Committee also supports the Government’s proposal to introduce admission requirements for teacher training. The importance of the teacher for the learning environment in the school and the learning outcomes for the individual student can hardly be overestimated. That's why it's essential that we secure the best applicants for teacher training, and that we also be able to keep the best teachers in school. Recording requirements for teacher training are an important element of such a strategy. Through the treatment of the EEAG, clear policy distinctions have emerged on several points. The Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party, in several contexts with active support from the Centre Party, are committed to maintaining today's school with the results, or rather lack of such, as we have repeatedly been documented. At the same time, they are both sceptical about exams, national tests and professional requirements. It is good to note that these attitudes are no longer in agreement with the Stortinget, and that basic education is now being given the necessary renewal and modernisation that is well received both within and outside the school.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17.ana.ud979e1776	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17.ana.ud979e1779	The councils should have once said to a newspaper that in politics she was not so happy about the rhetoric, but rather wanted to talk about the matter. I think that the approach angle is very good, and it is now a call to the representative Voie not to exaggerate the rhetoric. Voie's description of the school does not at all match the introduction to the paper, where it is said that we have a good school, which is going to be better. - And as if the dissemination of knowledge and skills is something we've come up with now! Adapted training has also been in place for many years. A letter came to me yesterday from a mother who said: I record that Reform 97 has been so unsuccessful. It's a little bit of a shame, because my child started the first year of Reform 97 was in progress. It was a little sad, but the signals the politicians send out are important. And the signal we're going to send out is that we have a good school that's going to be better. There is a broad consensus on correcting some of the weaknesses we have experienced on the table.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17.ana.ud979e1788	I am little surprised that the Workers' Party does not seem to have registered all the research reports and comparable studies we have conducted and received, which show that despite relatively high resource efforts in Norwegian school, we only perform in a mediocre manner, compared to countries that are natural to compare ourselves with. That was my point. In addition, I am fully aware that we have done a lot with adapted training, or so-called special education, but we must also be there concerned about what results we achieve from this effort. If the representative of the Workers' Party goes in and looks at the research assignments and the results of the research in that area as well, he will agree with me that we have a significant potential for improvement also in terms of organised training, which we are now trying to achieve. Otherwise, I agree in part that we should not exaggerate the rhetoric. But sometimes it can be time, even in the Biggest, to get the political divides out.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17.ana.ud979e1800	In fact, I fully agree with the representative from the Right that it is important to point out on one day that we are now undergoing conversion and settlement with some faulty systems, frameworks and guidelines. But there is something missing, for example: settlement with a faulty funding system. My question to the Right will then be: Is it so for the Right that it is more important for local government to dispose of, under the heading of local democracy, than to ensure the direct allocation of resources for students? So is it more important for the Right to keep the local government wallets than to ensure that the money follows the student more closely?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17.ana.ud979e1807	From the Right, we have no reason to strengthen local democracy and to maintain local government by giving local government representatives the best possible money at their disposal. From the Right, we see no contrast between having a well-functioning local democracy and having a good school -- rather, on the contrary. One of the most important schools is to contribute beyond the knowledge of fact is to train students to participate in a social life, in a democratic system of governance and in the decision-making structure that we have built up in this country. For this they may, among other things: help by learning to be part of local democracy around. We must not be so concerned that we at the Stortinget know best what serves the community and the school at all times, that we are going to make all the decisions here.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17.ana.ud979e1812	It was an article full of slogans and rhetoric, but the content was difficult to get hold of, and that this would mark some lines of Norwegian policy, I simply can't get hold of it. We were going to have the best students, we were going to have the best applicants for teacher training, and we were going to create the best school in the world. There were no limits to where "best" we were supposed to be in every area. But it didn't say anything about where the political divisions go, and what kind of school we want to develop. In one area, Søren Fredrik Voie came up with a concrete proposal, and it was about teacher training. In order to improve the quality of teacher training, we need to demand grades from high school. You have to have at least 3 or 4, or whatever. So that was the change in teacher training. There is a concrete proposal from the Progress Party and also from the Swedish Ministry of Education to do something about teacher training, a concrete proposal to make changes to the training itself. It's the one that creates the teachers, that develops the teachers. Why does the Right do not support such suggestions, rather than use rhetoric to create the world’s best teachers and the world’s best teacher training?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17.ana.ud979e1821	The representative of Rikvam has been involved in the discussion of this matter in the Church, Education and Research Committee for a relatively long time. Then I also expect that he has registered the political divisions and the various proposals contained in the message, without me having to repeat them from the Stortings pulpit. With regard to the change in teacher training, one of the reasons why we are not now dealing with it is that we recently adopted a new model of teacher training in Norway. It's actually just barely two years ago. With the systems we now have of degrees of freedom for both universities and universities, they have a great opportunity to develop teacher training on their own, both in terms of content and in time, if they themselves interact with the parties, among other things. in working life, it is the way to go. We're open to discussing it in the future too, like with SV, if they insist on prioritising teachers.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17.ana.ud979e1829	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17.ana.ud979e1832	The party of progress has a lot on its mind in this matter. We'll see how long it takes. Let me start, for sure, by including the proposals of the Advance Party in the vote. We have some suggestions. St. Report. No 30 is an important message. The main message lies in the NOU 2003:16, the suspension of the so-called Quality Committee, appointed by the Stoltenberg Government, with additional mandates for the second foreign language of the current Government Council. The main mandate of the selection underlines quality many times and in many contexts. In this way, the core wall of a new national school effort is based on the quality concept. It's the Progress Party well pleased with. To rewrite a well-known term: this is not the end of the single school, it is also not the beginning of the end of the single school, but it is the end of a completely necessary beginning to change direction and shift focus in Norwegian school. Mainly, the Progress Party agrees with the direction and content of the notification. The party of progress will give the Government and the Council of State praise for demonstrated ambition, for demonstrated desire for direction and for displayed frameworks for structure and content - essentially! A lot of people agree with the Progress Party and stand behind it. The party of progress is in important areas the main partner of the Government when the announcement of the school of the future is now accepted in the Stortinget. It's not unnatural. When the message changes school policy courses from one school to a knowledge school, a political distinction between parties appears at the same time. On the one hand, there are parties that want to take action to ensure better learning outcomes, which will focus strongly and clearly on school being a place to learn more than a place to be. On the other hand, there are parties that talk about quality, but still protect and continue the thinking goods of the single school. Also the students themselves are concerned with such a focus shift. The last user survey among students in Oslo school showed that the students themselves thought they had too few challenges. The message has received the title Culture for learning. For the Progress Party, it is important that this becomes a culture where there is understanding and acceptance that it is important and proper to work diligently to be good. I made some mistakes in the test not to be called nerd, is a statement from a student in today's high school who carries a clear message about the need for another culture of learning. Of course, it's not about everyone getting the best grade, but it's about making sure that most students are working to get better learning outcomes than they might even think were possible. Let me briefly underline another important point. For the Progress Party, it's not at all the theme to change the purpose paragraph, and I can address that in particular to SV. There's the platform of Christian and moral education. The progressing party records that SV is attacking the purpose paragraph. The progress party is happy that SV is standing alone at this point. For SV, the Norwegian is obviously less important, the foreign very important. The message changes the framework and structure, not least it opens up a larger room for action for each school. Freedom under responsibility is, in the view of the Progress Party, a good principle, but greater freedom also gives greater responsibility. I'll come back to that. In relation to local action spaces, to the introduction of basic groups and to sizes of basic groups, the Progress Party wishes to continue to clarify and clarify the concept of ‘pedagogically and safely’. That is why the Progress Party is tabling proposal No. 9 to provide the Government with a separate case of resource allocation and resource assurance for individual students in primary school education. We are surprised that the Workers' Party and SV do not support this proposal, if they are really concerned that large local space for action should only become local savings packages for local governments with a strenuous economy. In the view of the Progress Party, measurement is important in relation to increased space for action and the desire for quality and quality development. The Party supports the use of national samples. The Party wishes to publish fully the results and to compare the results of individual schools. School owners, school managers and teachers must expect greater demands to be made on school from parents and supervisors, from students and from national authorities. They have to expect that the school's product will be more focused and different, and that the school's product will be measured and compared to results from other schools. The entire committee will maintain the general part of the curriculum when creating new curricula. However, the Progress Party will have a case back to the Stortinget on the main principles and design of new curricula. The comprehensive principles and guidelines for primary school training that we find in today's curriculum will also replace the Progress Party with a "learning poster", as proposed by the Government. The educational plaque becomes a commitment to the planning and implementation of the training and the assessment of both the individual and the organisation of the apprenticeship. It becomes a tool for development of competences and for quality development. The progress party is pleased that we have underlined parents and have been co-responsive in the school at the "Teaching Poster". The Progress Party shall ensure a majority in order to introduce compulsory mathematics into Vg2 at the preparatory education programme in secondary school. The Progress Party supports the Government's proposal to change the written examination at primary school, so that students are only tested in the main goal, and for high school students, compulsory examination is changed into a draft scheme in writing. As the second best solution in terms of removing lateral dimensions as a compulsory subject, this is important and correct. Our surprise at the political synchronic exercise of the government parties and the Workers' Party was great. Great was the surprise of the Advance Party that the government's own parties in the Stortinget actually take three steps back in relation to its own government's progress in terms of the lateral goal. In our view, the proposal that both the main objectives and the secondary objectives should be part of the written Norwegian exam in primary school, is devastating for Norwegian subjects and for Norwegian exams. This will be a kind of co-norm, a language-policy ambush to strengthen the position of the side target at the expense of the main objective, and a language-policy ambush that parents and students should reject when they discover what is happening. The party of progress is against this. Here I do not think the last words have been said either. The Progress Party supports the Government’s proposal to introduce effectively targeted mandatory 2nd foreign language at the youth level. When I look at the clock, I see that I have to jump a little further, and then I think I'll end up talking about another point that is important for the Progress Party in the message, namely the collaboration home school. The party to the progress is pleased that the content of the message has changed. Proposals related to parental influence and to the role of the parental committee for primary school we were not satisfied with. We experience the Ministry's proposal as an attack on the role of parents. On the other hand, the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats is pleased with the result. The Progress Party, together with the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre Party, ensures that parental councils, cooperation committees and school selections are maintained. The role, responsibilities, organisation and location of the FUG are maintained. FUG shall be appointed in another way in order to ensure solid parental anchoring. Lufs, the Landslag för Udelt and Fådelt School, i.e. the Landslag för near-environment school, is also highlighted by this majority, and it is underlined that state support must be ensured. I stress that this provides first and foremost a guarantee of the current arrangements for parental influence in school. The party of progress will move forward. The Progress Party will extend parental influence, and once again promotes proposals for the law-making of the executive board and the law-making of the class-contact system, a system that we have had for many years, but which unfortunately is not yet statutory. For the time being, we're alone here, but we're sure that other parties will come soon. The Progress Party also promotes proposals for the creation of an independent and independent school representative to improve legal certainty for parents and students. In another post, I would like to focus on some aspects that are missing in the message and that are missing after treatment in the settings. This applies, inter alia, to: discussion of the length of basic training, i.e. ten versus nine years. It concerns the funding system, ensuring that the money actually follows the student right up to school and does not drown in sloppy municipal boxes, as well as some other relationships.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17.ana.ud979e1887	The representative Arne Sortevik has taken up the suggestions he himself refers to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17.ana.ud979e1892	Let me stress that I would feel much more comfortable by associating with the representatives of the school group under the Value Commission - who had representatives from the Norwegian Church to the different religious and life views - in important matters of value, important issues, than I would feel if I were with the Advance Party. The proposal we have made on the subject of the purpose paragraph is a concrete one. We have said that we should take on board the concrete proposal that this group has come up with. There was agreement, there was unanimity in the group that had representatives from the Norwegian Church to different Muslim religious communities - if you take the extremes - Buddhists, etc. That is what we have proposed. To call this a sort of attack on Christianity, which was attempted here, I think is a gross exaggeration. So my question to Sortevik is: why not follow up on the proposal on which there was broad agreement in the group that had representatives from the Norwegian Church to different Muslim religious communities?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17.ana.ud979e1899	I repeat that the Progress Party sees no reason to change the purpose paragraph for Norwegian school. And I repeat that the Progress Party is well satisfied that no parties other than SV address this issue and will change the purpose paragraph. I will end by quoting the following from the comment to the SV about this point in the setting. "The test of whether Norway is a life-seeking pluralist society is about Christians if they lived in a Muslim country, would accept that the public school in the country in its purpose paragraph said that the school should give the children a Muslim education." It's quite self-explanatory and quite self-illusioning. It's a problem we're taking a distance from. We who live in Norway and live in Norway and want to be here will have a Norwegian school based on Norwegian values and Norwegian tradition. Jørgen Kosmo had resumed his office here.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17.ana.ud979e1911	I would like to refer to a note from the Progress Party on page 8. It says: "Great degree of inclusion where the weakest students affect both learning work, learning attitude and learning outcomes also for other student groups and individual students have provided mediocre and partly weak learning outcomes." So the claim is that the students represent Blackevik call weak students, attract other students. Does the representative Blackevik mean to separate out those he himself elsewhere in the setting call industrious and neat, from those he here calls weak? My question is: does the representative Sortevik want a school for the special ones, or does he want a school that includes everyone? I would appreciate if he could say anything about what kind of student vision and learning vision underpinning the Party's school policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17.ana.ud979e1920	The Progress Party believes that inclusion in Norwegian school has gone too far. We think it affects the learning outcomes. We also believe that one of the factors is that Norwegian schools, unlike some other countries, are haunted by unrest. It is a problem of day-to-day learning, in the class situation, which often turns out that a class that had managed with one teacher often has to have two. We want to give all students a good offer. We want to ensure that all students have the same resource access at the bottom. We've been busy getting in the settings and trying to make sure. But we also call for, like the Council of State has done a couple of times, that we have to open up alternative forms of teaching so that everyone can get an offer they're well served with.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17.ana.ud979e1925	The progress party uses to give the impression that it's the people who think about the new ideas here in the hall. When it comes to school policy, they're pretty old-fashioned. The left as a liberal party is talking about releasing school, while a liberal party as a Progress Party is talking about more control, more supervision, more testing, more grades, and even more government governance down to the smallest detail from this hall down to each student. It's going to be even more state. And the foremost educational tool seems to be fear, which I thought we might have gotten quite far away from in Norwegian school today. So my question to Sortevik is whether they haven't gotten into a very old-fashioned thinking about school, and whether it's maybe time to think about some new ideas. The promotion of a proposal that ICT, which is an instrument of educational work, should be my own subject, seems to me to be at the same level as the introduction of a book as one's own subject.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17.ana.ud979e1932	Books are important. We also hope that we can get fairer school books when we remove the monopoly. So to the question. There is a description in which the Progress Party does not recognise itself. I'm going back to what I started with here today. We are concerned that there should be increased space for action, but we are concerned that the increased space for action to which we are referring and to which we support should also be accompanied by a natural balance in the form of increased emphasis on supervision and increased content of supervision. Well, we've been overseeing for a while, but it's a supervision that, for the most important part of the school, that's public, not at schools, but at school owners. On the other hand, private schools are carefully supervised in each school. Finally, if this is old-fashioned: a few years ago, Lorraine Monroe was here talking about discipline in school. She was gender-explained, and we thought she had good messages.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17.ana.ud979e1941	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17.ana.ud979e1944	We might have a different view of the extent to which the decisions we're going to make today are a change in initial training or not. For my part, I am not in doubt that the proposal and majority voting involve a change of course in basic education, and especially in secondary education, as it has been developed quite back from 1974 with the law on secondary education, which largely based on the principles exercised on the basis of the decision of the Steen Committee. As far as primary school is concerned, we have had different patterns, from 1974, 1987, and the curriculum in 1997. In relation to the development based on these plans and this law, this is an adjustment of the course, it is obvious. And by the way, it should just be missing. We have a government where the Right has the Council of State and the Right is the dominant party, so it should just be lacking that they would not take advantage of the chance to adjust the rate. Right rhetoric that this is the end of the school, or, as Søren Fredrik Voie said, a "revolution," is mildly hesitated. What characterises the single school is, among other things: a common curriculum, covering the whole country, with strong central governance of our education system - and this continues. The syllabus with the general part shall be maintained, hours and hours shall continue, but so as to enable schools to redispatch up to 25 pst. of the hour. The examination continues to almost the same extent as before - a small adjustment for the Norwegian subject, the cross-target training. New tests are being introduced, central tests, there are becoming more compulsory subjects, students' choices are falling away in both primary and secondary school - a stronger central governance of our education system. The evaluation and assessment procedures continue. What worries me is that I can't see that any of what the majority adopts today will move towards greater diversity, new forms of training or challenge teachers to try out new forms of organisation. Teacher training is to be improved by requiring qualifications to be included in teacher training - in this way it is to be improved. We're not going to do anything about the teacher's training itself, but we're going to have to ask for grades to come in. You have to have a lot of imagination to think that it's going to do something about teacher training. However, let me stress that I am pleased that the general part of the curriculum will be passed on. It has a great human vision, and not least it draws a beautiful picture of the student, as engaged, curious and not least motivated for learning. I also agree that we need new vocational training plans, and I think that they can be good if one is able to build them up according to the leadership that the committee has tried to deploy. We've said that the curricula should have goals about skills, they should have goals about knowledge of facts, but they should also have goals that show the analytical skills of the students, and goals to develop the students' independent reflection - a more hierarchical goal. If we can build curricula according to this structure, I think it'll also be easier to get individually adapted training. For us who are not so very concerned with rhetorical points, but who want a strong public school, this is important. For many of us, it's the foundation of the welfare society we're really talking about. What worries us is that this centralization, this centralised school, will easily end up weakening the public school in competition with private schools, and it will be an accident. It's a turn in the wrong direction. I accept that the Right was not the driving force behind Reform 94. They were also not the engine behind the law of secondary education in 1974, and I choose to see these changes, these adjustments of the course, which will be adopted today, as the occasion for a small revision on the Right. Let me use three areas to try to make the lines of education policy visible. The lines go between the Progress Party and the government parties on one side, and the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party on the other. We who belong to the opposition do not agree on everything, but on the more basic issues, we have a common position and common leadership. Firstly, knowledge, as revealed by the concept of "basic competence", is a continuation of the knowledge view contained in the general part of the curriculum. It was the Sample Selection, or the Quality Committee, that introduced the concept of basic competence. Basic competence shall cover the entire course of education from the first class to the last year of secondary school. What the government has done in relation to the Quality Committee is to extract pieces of what the selection proposed, what goes on skills - that is, the old traditional knowledge view, which is skill-based - a master of reading, writing, etc. We agree on that. Dear friend, everyone agrees. But in addition, the Sägnen Committee had also introduced other requirements for basic competence, namely what goes on social competence, and what goes on learning skills. In addition, we have proposed cultural competence. In this way, we can draw a broader view of knowledge, and there's a distinction between the opposition and those that make up the majority. The Committee says very well about formation, values, attitudes, etc. But when you want to put it into basic competence, as suggested by the Quality Committee, one goes back to the traditional skills, as suggested by the Government. Secondly, how do we promote quality? The government is ready for competition, testing, to be important elements in improving quality. The ideas are not new. They're not even Norwegian. They're from England in the 1980s, with the Thatcher government, and practiced in Australia and New Zealand. So this is old. It is also tried out in Norway, with central tests. It's kind of nice to remember what's happened, especially with the Christian People's Party, over the last five years. Five years ago we treated St.meld. No 28 for 1998-1999, Towards richer goals, presented by Jon Lilletun, who was Minister of Church, Education and Research at the time, and he was a member of a government headed by Bondevik, i.e. as today. They had a completely different approach to this with quality and how to improve quality. Self-evaluation, user involvement, user surveys, supervision and dialogue between schools and local, regional and central authorities were discussed. All of this has been tried out, and it has worked reasonably well. There are processes that have started around the schools. This we should stimulate and love more, instead of turning it up-down and saying that now it's competition, now it's testing, now we're going to be tried and weighed and measured in a completely different way. This is a development in the wrong direction in relation to the last five years - the Christian People's Party then stood for a completely different view. Thirdly, there is a distinction in the case of secondary education. The government says clearly that we should have a clearer distinction between vocational education and special education. We're going to go back a little bit, to the old line schools and the old vocational schools. They're not saying it this way, but we're going to have a clearer distinction, and they're going to write it clearly. Let me also say that I am pleased that we have managed to hit a small wedge into this system, by being able to maintain some educational programmes that could lead to both professional competence and study competence, cf. media and communication and natural use. For us, it is important that the two educational traditions we have in the country - the academic educational tradition and the educational tradition we have from business, a educational tradition based on learning through experience - have fused into a secondary school that has both given vocational education, i.e. given vocational letters, and given study competence. We have a different view of human beings and a different view of knowledge. In addition, we also distinguish ourselves in the view of who should be prepared for the study. We're ready to finish high school, you're supposed to be prepared for school, so higher education is going to be open. We don't want everyone who takes a letter to start studying, but our view of people is that it should be a way open. Students should have the opportunity if they want to, instead of forcing on them new theoretical subjects before universities and colleges should be opened up to them. And I'm glad that the Workers' Party supports us in this and agrees with that knowledge view. I am sorry that it has not been possible to implement it. I'm absolutely sure we'd get a much better structure on our entire high school if these roads had been open. I see the time is running out. I would then like to address the proposals that we have, either alone or with others.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17.ana.ud979e1983	The representative Rolf Rikvam then brought up the proposals he has referred to. Furthermore, the President's view is that the concept of "doubt" on the opinions of a co-representative is hardly to be said to be particularly parliamentary, and when the representative also says that it was "mildly said," it does not make the matter any better. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17.ana.ud979e1990	The SV and the Labour Party are some about much when it comes to getting better quality in the school, but during the management of the change in the training law and the class division number, we separated layers, just when it came to agreeing to a proposal to abolish the class division number. SV supports this proposal, provided that it was not used for school savings. The Labour Party opposed the proposal, because we fear that it would be used for saving measures. This week we learned that 150 schools are under supervision because they have too large educational groups. Does the representative of the party believe that the removal of the classification number is not to be used for saving measures, is it still present?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17.ana.ud979e1997	Let me first say that the old class division had two functions. One was that it was a pedagogical tool, a pedagogical way of organizing it. And we wanted greater local freedom. We wanted the schools to deal with the purely organizational, the educational, the group size and the freedom to form groups. That was our starting point. Then we knew that there was also a resource protection guarantee in this system. And it assured us by submitting this proposal that we had adopted together with the government parties about a year ago. That was at least what was our goal. Things now indicate that some municipalities have used this to reduce resource supply, at least based on what I have read in the newspapers. It's wrong. This is contrary to the decision of the Storting. So I expect the municipalities, to the extent that they have done something wrong, to be loyal to political decisions in the Stortinget. If we can't expect that, we're actually in a hopeless situation here in the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17.ana.ud979e2004	It was a highly committed committee leader, and it is good, but it was also a highly concerned committee leader. He was concerned about the centralization of the school, and then I can reassure him: this is no centralization of the school. And to use his own words, it's probably just a lack of imagination that makes one not see that this is a strengthening of local freedom. I am also surprised that the representative Rikvam thinks that the school can now have 25 pst. of the hours, that they are given freedom of organisation, that the "Broen" is removed and that the freedom of method for teachers is reduced. The truth is that it is SV that is responsible for the central school, because they want to keep the bridge, that they will introduce maximum figures for basic groups, and this innumerable amount of proposals for national minimum standards that have come in recent years. Does the representative Rikvam not see that the three things I mentioned are central and fundamental prerequisites for local freedom of action in school?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17.ana.ud979e2011	Let me first say that the schools can dispose of 25 pst. of the hour, is a good suggestion. We tried the campaign with 100 pst., and it didn't fall into very good soil. I'm sure there'll be more people here. But we were still bold and tried 100 pst, so 25 pst. is a step on the way. For us, this was a pedagogical tool, which is something that the schools should be free from on the basis of pedagogical assessments. But the majority of the Stortinget makes this a municipal matter - that the municipalities should be able to adopt binding obligations towards the schools - and then there is no longer any educational instrument. But what's the point? I feel that we do not follow up on what we should actually follow up. So to the "Broen." We want to maintain the bridge, but we want to adjust it. And we would like to have guidance and guidance on methods - clearly. Because there's a connection between knowledge and methods, and we would have made that visible through the bridge. For maximum number of basic groups [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17.ana.ud979e2022	The Progress Party is pleased that the majority does not go SV's school path. It's a school road that, in our view, goes in the wrong direction. One of the things we would quickly find that way was a school without exams. Why does SV believe that it does not have a self-esteem to measure student performance under pressure? Isn't it an important skill that you can actually perform under pressure, master and use knowledge and skills under pressure? It's actually pretty similar to the reality you encounter outside of the school room. The Progress Party believes that the folder is not good enough. We can use today's debate as an example. I guess it wouldn't be the same thing, give the same idea, if we left our folders here, instead of taking the debate. So it's also that SV won't have more math and won't have mandatory other foreign language. I hope the representative Rikvam can briefly explain why.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17.ana.ud979e2029	I hope that the government parties, who are currently the Friends of the Advance Party in Education Policy, record that one of the purposes of the exam is to try students under pressure. If that's what's meant, I can't believe and understand that someone can go in for it-- if that's what's the goal of the exam, trying students under pressure. I thought that the school had the task of working with learning, driving 13 years of learning and motivating for learning. And then we say that the goal is to push them to an exam when they're done with 13 years, or at 10 years, or whatever. It is quite incredible, so I hope that the government parties will record who they have met. Folder evaluation is required. That's absolutely necessary if we're going to get adapted training. Only through new forms of evaluation, only through an evaluation form in which the teacher is obliged to take on the basis of individual life, can we be able to obtain basic training. There is not one proposal in relation to adapted training in addition to the proposal we have put forward in relation to evaluation, and we simply cannot get to adapted training, which is the objective, if we do not want to change the evaluation forms.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17.ana.ud979e2036	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17.ana.ud979e2039	The centre party supports many of the proposals that are in the main message. Among other things, I mention: extension of the number of hours in primary school, as the Government adds, increased focus on basic knowledge, emphasis on empowerment for teachers, daily physical activity - as we proposed in a Document No. Eight proposals in the UK about a year ago - and a strengthened counselling service in upper secondary and secondary education, with shared counselling service in secondary school, also in line with another proposal the Centre Party promoted about a year ago. We also support what is stated in the announcement that the general curriculum continues, and that the "Broen", the transition between the general curriculum and the curricula, is replaced by an improved version of the Government's proposal for "school poster" which we give the name "Teaching poster". We further support measures to improve the transition to higher education. The introduction of the programme will contribute to better adapted training at the youth level and allow for more practical activity or depression. I believe that this will also help to reduce the number of re-elections in high school. Furthermore, we support that up to 25 pst. the number of hours may be disposed of locally, primarily as an appropriate training tool, and that disposal takes place in cooperation between schools, i.e. contact teacher, student and home. So what's the Central Party disagreed with the government parties about? The person reading the setting will see that the view of knowledge is different. The centre party sees knowledge as something more than mastering instrumental skills. We therefore propose the introduction of a basic competence, which, in addition to the skills provided by the Government, has a learning strategy and motivation, social and cultural competence as foundations, and which is essential for students to acquire through the school cycle. These elements shall permeate all subjects. Then we disagree with the Government's proposal for national tests. The centre party believes that these should be primarily learning support and be used locally. At the same time, it is important to have a national overview of pupils’ learning outcomes. The centre party therefore considers that a system that tests a sample of students will be able to address both of these considerations and therefore promotes a proposal in line with this. The central party opposes the Government's proposal for a weakening of parental participation, and is included in a majority opinion where a secure parental council, cooperation committees and school committees. The centre party opposes the requirement for the introduction of mandatory other foreign languages in secondary school. We are opposed to the requirement for enhanced study competence. Mandatory mathematics in Vg2 is a blank track. With the emphasis on mathematics adding up to primary, we think one year of mathematics in high school is more than enough. In addition, reinforced study competence requirements will make it much more difficult for students in professional disciplines who want to have a study qualification instead of a letter to do so. The Centre Party maintains that the students are to be organised in basic groups, with 12-15 students, with a contact teacher, and supports proposals to this effect. I am surprised that the government parties do not add up to this, in the light of clear comments when the class division was lifted. The reference to the concept of "base group" is the use of the concept by the Quality Committee, which was defined both in content and in size. The conflict over the parallel exam has shown that the fight for our two equal forms of goals in Norway must actually be fought further. The goal battle is a cultural struggle. It is about seeing the Norwegian bilingual situation as a cultural and linguistic resource and about defining Norway as a bilingual country. Young Right and Oslo Right have made the fight against the goal of their cultural struggle. Where has it become of the Cultural Conservative Right? The centre party promotes two proposals that are very important to give the side goal the place it has in our culture. New and book measures shall be two language equivalents. It assumes that knowledge of the target forms is general. This premise is not present in the government's report and proposals regarding the cross-measurement, nor in the comments of the government parties and the Workers' Party, which they were able to make overtime. Professor Willy Dahl says in Bergen’s Official Journal today that the parallel agreement such as these, the government parties and the Workers’ Party, has come about is a fatal misdemeanor. I will deal with the suggestion in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17.ana.ud979e2067	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17.ana.ud979e2070	The representative at Skjälaa said a moment ago that the view of knowledge is different. The schizophrenic went on to say that "mathematics in Vg2 is a dead end." Several studies show that it is necessary to strengthen the competence and skills of students in both language and real-life subjects. This has been proposed by the Quality Committee and has been supported by the Workers' Party. The centre party does not support these proposals. Therefore, I would like to ask: does this mean that the Central Party does not see the need to strengthen teaching in the linguistic and real subjects? What measures does the representative see as the difference can be put into action to increase learning outcomes? If there is now a different view of knowledge, we must at least agree that there is a need to strengthen language and real-life education in secondary schools.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17.ana.ud979e2076	The cancellation message and the setting add up to a strengthening of the math training in primary school. We actually think that's enough. When a few years have passed, I actually hope that we will see that the students master mathematics better than they do today when they leave the ten-year-old primary school. The trade unions also say that this by strengthening mathematics for everyone, by introducing it one more year in higher education, is no use. One doesn't need math to be able to study many other subjects. But I fully agree that we need to strengthen mathematics education in primary school. And it's okay that we have it one year in high school, but then people actually look forward, and see if they need math. I think the bet that you see in primary school might lead to more people choosing real science in higher education, and also choosing to study mathematics.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17.ana.ud979e2081	I am recording that the representative of the Kjellaa says that it is Young Right and Oslo Right who have taken up the fight against the side goal. I just want to add that Finnmark Right is also in that fight, along with the Finnmark Center Party. So to a question that the Kjerlaa didn't answer: what does he think about the second mandatory foreign language in high school? I record that the representative refers to knowledge as instrumental skills. Firstly, at least the Right does not think that language is an instrumental skill. Language is a basic skill that it's very important to master. Now we know that the Center Party has a special view of Norway in the world. It is against Norway's participation in many parts of the world, against its borders being reduced, against Norway's participation in the EU, and then my question is: Is this linked to the fact that Norway should not be taught more foreign languages, because Norway does not have a place in the world?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17.ana.ud979e2088	As a centralist, I can say that I have at least learned six or seven languages, so it is not true among the people of the Central Party that you should not learn foreign languages. I'll tell the representative later what language it is. We want other foreign languages in youth to be voluntary, simply because we record that very many students don't even manage English properly. And we actually think it's important to bet in English. Otherwise, I would encourage people who have the capacity to choose another foreign language at high school, but we simply want it to be a subject they can choose to take, and not something they're charged with. I think it's better that they master one foreign language than that they don't master anyone at all, instead of being forced to learn more foreign languages.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17.ana.ud979e2095	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17.ana.ud979e2098	This is primarily a learning reform. We've had a lot of reforms through school. Perhaps "reform" is not heard so well in the ears of many teachers, so perhaps we should say that this is an action plan to live for and a timetable to live with in relation to how many of the other reforms have been implemented. This is primarily a reform with confidence in pedagogues. It shows the changes, the 25 pst., the "Broen" and curriculums that are to be built in a different way, where it is possible to be a teacher and feel that you are stretching to, and also feel that you have a room for action. What we see in the left hand view is the most beautiful in the message, of course, is that we also attach the numbers of continuing training to the teachers and focus on what is the most important factor in success in the school, that is, the good teacher. And if the good teachers are to feel that they're doing their job, we have to be confident that they're trying to do everything they can to do their job, that it's safe for them, and that it's free of action. Because today I experience that many of the good pedagogical stories we get when we travel around the schools, often are about teachers who have to be a little untraditional, who have to dare to break the frames a little, and dare to think about new ways. Then we have to give teachers security, trust and freedom of action to dry up the untraditional thoughts. The problem then is that SV, for example, does not see that those thoughts do not necessarily have to be thought about here in order for them to dry up. It's not like we have to do it here in this hall, but we have to trust that others can do it. I have not heard any mention of the school libraries, as we have mentioned in our comments. In the case of school libraries, it is important to think about new ways of working, thinking about new pedagogical practices. In this context, there is a lot of excitement going on in the schools under which we here at Stortinget should support. Then I have to comment on the national tests. We in the Left have the goal of eliminating the exam in the future, and then getting national tests that work well and correctly is very important. They don't quite do that, as they work today, but we're on our way. But if we are to succeed in national tests, we need to be more open to other pedagogical practices and other study techniques in the students. It must also be possible to evaluate students who have learned different study techniques in order to learn. You have to have a theme you recognize in. We've had fun when I've visited many Oslo schools with immigrant students and talked about the theme of self-service cabins -- that's probably not what they know best about in their everyday lives. There must be tests that are designed in a way that makes everyone feel that they have something to reach for, so that they don't feel that this is something they can't do. I think it's great that the Council of State has been brave and opened up to philosophy in school, and I think it's good that we've now reached a broad consensus on the new Norway, sail if I'm not quite sure what the implementation will be. I hope the Council of State can come back if we see that the implementation is not going to be good enough. What's most amazing about the message, as well as the teacher's effort, is that we have an opportunity to see the entire school cycle together, get the opportunity to take a course up and down, from high school down to primary school. The left's vision is that it may not be so important how many years the school cycle lasts, but that we get opportunities to develop our skills and learn what we're going to learn during school, and that we can be more flexible in terms of both school leaving and school leaving. Everyone should get the experience of being both the stupid and the gimpy in the class. It's healthy for everyone. But the old class system was such that you were either glup, or stupid, for ten years. The feeling of mastering, and the feeling of fixing things, should all get during their schooling. So finally, a little comment to Reikvam and different human vision, which I may feel is very added-- but let's say, then, that it's different from human vision. Reform 94 also led to a major failure, a system that made losers because people didn't fix the large amount of theoretical subjects when you had practical skills. And then the question is, should we continue with that system? Or are we going to try to create a system where not all are necessarily going to be academics, but where people are first and foremost given the opportunity to use their abilities, their opportunities, and to create a future based on the abilities, desires and opportunities you have with your assumptions?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17.ana.ud979e2119	It's going to be line change. - Rune J. Skjellaaen. A question: Did the Chills bring up the proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17.ana.ud979e2124	Yeah, I actually did. But then the president sat down and talked to the secretary.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17.ana.ud979e2129	I'm sorry! But that's what we're getting right now: The representative, Rune J. Skjellera, has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17.ana.ud979e2134	It was about math one more year here instead, and I was challenged on it. The Government proposes a stronger requirement for study competence, including: with mandatory mathematics in Vg2. So the demands for entry to higher education and university are raised. Does the representative Skei Grande think that more mathematics in high school will help protect the students, the language students, theology students, the social students are better prepared for their studies? I just miss one reason, another than mathematics is good -- one reason why you're more prepared for all studies by having more mathematics in high school.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17.ana.ud979e2141	There are some subjects that are quite fundamental to moving on. And sometimes you don't think about how basic they are to move on. I can cost myself to use sail as an example here--for I've had is dear and close to mathematics in all my school years. But I wasn't going to do math, so I ended up doing it in the first grade of high school, took the easiest possible de-jumping and then ended up, like the politically interested person I am, on social economy, which includes a little math -- which meant that I got a giant race to get back to all the mathematics I had jumped off. Mathematics is one of the skills that lie at the bottom, and that interferes with many more subjects than you really think about when you sit and make the choices in high school. I'm concerned that the choices you make in high school are going to mean the least possible limits to what you're going to do in life, but that you're going to have the opportunity to build on the skills and abilities you have.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17.ana.ud979e2148	I want to start by responding to Skei Grande's claim about and criticism of SV. Firstly, SV is concerned with the issue of waste in secondary school. The solutions that Skei Grande comes with do not solve this problem - they also cause more problems. Secondly, before reform 94 was introduced, the dropout problem in secondary education was much greater. More fell off. But we're taking this problem seriously. So to my question to Skei Grande. She says she's busy with the school library. SV is very busy with the school library. We know that studies show that many students have little access to school libraries and that the quality of supply in many places is very low. You have to get an increased bet on school library, says Skei Grande, but in what way does she want to do this? Will we see that in the annual budgets ahead?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17.ana.ud979e2158	The problem with Reform 94 - which has been corrected - was primarily the re-election rate of the students. My attendance was based on the claim made by the representative of Requam that this was based on different human views, on the emphasis on counting academic skills in absolutely all the elections. So to school library. I'd like to tell the representative Lena Jensen how to bet on a school library. You do that, for example. in the way you did it when I was a school office in Oslo. A number of schools made their own projects, and the schools that wanted to use the school library as a center -- a core -- in school. There's no point in betting flats on all the school libraries, no matter what way you want to work. School library is very different. If you travel around from oslo school to oslo school, you can see that the school libraries are incredibly different, because the teachers use them differently. They have different roles in the educational process, and they also have different roles in relation to use among students. It must be adapted accordingly.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17.ana.ud979e2165	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17.ana.ud979e2168	We have the best conditions in this country to create the best school in the world. We have schools that are accessible to everyone. We have higher levels of participation than most of the countries we compare with. We also have a highly educated population. We have more knowledge today than ever about the student's learning outcomes. In general, there is a broad consensus that the public common school is good, while at the same time we agree that it can be done better. We can do more to increase students' learning outcomes. "Culture for learning" is the response of Regeringen to the challenges facing the school and, fortunately, the Committee has shown a broad consensus on many of the measures proposed. An overall committee supports the increased availability of part of the teaching time for the school. An overall committee believes that emphasis should be placed on empowerment among teachers. An overall committee will allow young students to take courses in higher education, and the Committee sees the need for a strengthened counselling service. Furthermore, the Committee wishes to simplify the supply structure of higher education, and that is good. But there is a distinction in the committee - a distinction that relates to the concept of skill itself. The Labour Party believes that a broad view of knowledge can only be achieved through a broad concept of competence, i.e. a concept of the diversity of knowledge, attitudes and skills to be acquired by students in initial training. Emphasising such a holistic competence is important. It's obvious that the school should teach students how to read, write and calculate - master numbers and letters - and use the digital tools. Competence in these areas is essential for further learning. Therefore, the Labour Party believes that it is important to strengthen and adapt this training, so that all students experience mastering these skills. But the Workers' Party is anxious that breaking down the concept of competence until only these five skills can lead to a theory of school. As the Government defines the concept of skills, one almost ignores the fact that much of the learning of the students takes place through a practical and social approach to the teaching material. The Labour Party believes that a lot of learning is done in collaboration and in interaction with others - in school, in play and in society for the rest. We also believe that having a good learning strategy is central to students' learning outcomes. In view of this, the Labour Party believes that the quality committee’s proposal for a basic competence, where social skills and learning skills are included as central competence goals, was the right way for Norwegian school and should have been followed up by the Government. In addition, the Workers' Party believes that cultural competence - the ability to orient itself in a complex society, the ability to understand other cultures and to secure their identity - will become increasingly important. With the proposal of the Government - which was given a majority in the Committee - the Workers' Party is concerned that we will have a school that is increasingly concerned about purely instrumental and measurable values. We think that is a sad development. We want the guidelines and principles laid down in the general curriculum - and now also in the 'School Plaque' - to lead the way for education. Then it's not useful with a concept of skill that only one is concerned about how good Per is to read, or how good Lisa is to calculate. The vision of the Workers' Party is that the school should take care of all learning - from childhood to youth - and that the soft values, such as social and cultural competence, should be part of the basic competence of our children from school to adult life.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17.ana.ud979e2192	The Communication Culture for Learning has been presented in recent months to thousands of school-interested people in Norway, and it has been widely received. I am therefore pleased that the communication now also receives the approval of the Stortinge, and that it is supported very widely in all essential respects. I also record that there is a difficult trace of some overall and consistent alternative school policy on the part of the opposition. I would like to thank the rapporteur and the committee for the extensive and demanding work that has been done. My ambition is that Culture for Learning should represent a time separation in Norwegian school. The foundation has now been laid for a school reform that will shape everyday life in Norwegian school for many years to come. It will have a full impact on students starting in 2006. The question is, what do we give these students? We give them a good starting point. We have one of the world's best education systems. Everyone has access to education. We have a high level of education, and we spend a lot of resources in school. But at the same time, we have some problems that we're no longer going to sweep under the carpet, and we have some future challenges that we need to get ready to meet. For this reason, the communication indicates a shift in school policy in several areas. We want to put greater emphasis on giving all students the opportunity to acquire the basic skills to be formed as a human being, to continue to learn and to live a good life and working life. We do not regard knowledge as old-fashioned, but as a source of self-driving and life-exploitation. I am pleased that the Storting joins the Government's proposal on, among other things. basic skills, first step reading and writing training, second foreign language, more mathematics, study competence requirements and admission requirements for teacher training. We want to meet the students with greater respect. That's why we want to put diversity ahead of unity and equidistant over equality. The ideal of adapted training can only be achieved if we recognise that students are different and have to meet differently. It is gratifying that the Stortinge subscribes to the Government's proposal to retain the right to special education, to a national commitment to adapted training, to greater freedom for students to deepen and choose the appropriate educational pathways and pace, to give schools the freedom to dispose of more of the hours locally, and to give teachers the freedom of method. Local freedom of action is a honor that everyone uses. With this message, the Government completes a comprehensive work during this great period to give content to these words and really give municipalities, schools and teachers greater freedom of action in and for the school. It's an important system shift, which is to mobilise responsibility and redeem all the expertise and commitment that we know exists in School-Norway, for the benefit of the students. We want a school system that puts more emphasis on content, development, quality and culture than counting rules, heads and hours. We clarify the social mandate of the school, so that both the school itself and the others know what we can expect, and we create a framework around the school that contributes to development. The new Education Directorate is being set up these days, and at school, the National Quality Assessment System, which was treated two years ago by the Stortinget, is being launched to help all those working for a better school. The educational poster establishes a framework for quality to which all teaching places must relate. Today, the majority is taking decisions on the reform. But it is not the Stortinge that decides whether the reform should become a reality. That's what people in school do. In this Communication, we take the consequence that teachers and school leaders are the school's most important resource, that they must have competence, be motivated, and that only they themselves can create a good culture for learning. We contribute, among other things: by proposing a historical school level of competence. We get better teacher training, increased admission requirements for teacher training, further training for teachers who lack depression, reform-related skills development and a separate schoolleader programme. I have noticed that the Committee wants a progress plan for the Competence Development Programme. We will contribute to this as far as possible, but I would like to stress the need for a flexible process in which both the school owners and the teacher's organisations must play a significant role. No matter what governments we've had in the last 10-20 years, it's probably right to say that Norway has invested enormously in education. That is the broad consensus on, and especially if we see it in an international perspective. What's happening now, both in higher education and in school, is that we're not just betting on quantity, but also on quality. I agree with all those who say that it could give us one of the world's best schools-- I call it "maybe the best."
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17.ana.ud979e2220	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17.ana.ud979e2223	State Council Clement has now gathered facts and knowledge to get a sense of the reality of the situation in school. I think that the introduction to the big message provides a good description of, and actually is a good certificate to, Norwegian school, but there are some weaknesses that need to be corrected. My first wish is that she gives some of the facts to the representative Voie, for his description of the situation I think was a little unreal--I said not hesitated, but unreal. I also think that the Right parliamentary leader, Oddvard Nilsen, should be given some of the facts. He has said in articles that we must now start with the "routines of the single school project", and then he has said that there is no one in the Workers' Party who dares to defend Reform 94. But that is not necessary, because the Clemet Council is continuing all the principles of Reform 94 with the big message we are discussing now. I'm just looking for a common sense of reality, and I don't always think it's as good in place from the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17.ana.ud979e2234	In the right, there is no central decision as to the type of word or rhetoric to be used. Everyone gets to talk to their language. It's high below the ceiling in the Right. The new thing that has happened in the last few years since this government came, is that part of the right claim was the case in Norwegian school before the last major elections, among others. That almost one fifth of the students went out of primary school without being able to read and write properly, now is so thoroughly documented that no one disagrees that it is true. No one disagrees that that's true. It has also led to the fact that an aggregate increase here now actually agrees that we need to invest more in basic skills, because it is a prerequisite for further education, for work and for quality of life. So much of what was the debate, and as the Workers' Party, SV and others claimed not to be the case before 2001, everyone now agrees on the case. It has contributed to the knowledge base.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17.ana.ud979e2246	Two things: The Progress Party agrees that an annual fixed number of hours is linked to student rights, and we agree that 25 p.m. may be used within local freedom of action. But why won't the government give the school administration control over the 25 pst. and bring in the school owner? We see it as school management, which has more daily contact with the students than what the school owner has, who has the knowledge. In our view, they should have that right of governance. The second is that in its press release on this issue, the Ministry itself points out that the very prerequisite for achieving the main objectives is a significant level of competence for teachers and school leaders. Nevertheless, when reference is made to the crowning rate in the annual budgets, it is an entirely unobligatory summary. Does the Council of State really believe that a bet with such small commitments is taken seriously by teachers and school leaders?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17.ana.ud979e2255	Clearly, when we want more flexibility in terms of the subject and the hour distribution, the 25 pst., the purpose is to adapt training for each student. The only reasonable thing is, of course, that this is decided by teachers and the local school in consultation with the individual student and possibly parents. But the reason why we bring in the school owner is two-part. One is that the school owner has the legal responsibility for the school and for the students to have the training adapted, as stated in the law. If a school does not do its job, the school owner is obliged to intervene. Nor will I exclude that there may be cases where it is revealed that an entire municipality has a type of challenge that causes a share of the 25 pst. e.g. should go to enhanced reading training in the municipality. That's why I'm going to admit that this might look a little unclear, but it's important to clarify that the purpose is adapted to training. Then it would be pointless if the municipality were to dispose of all 25 pst. That's the one. In terms of the level of competence: I have no idea that it has been poorly received. On the contrary, it has been very well received. But we believe that we need to have some flexibility in the detailed planning, and that we need to do so in cooperation with municipalities, county councils and the teachers' organizations themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17.ana.ud979e2264	In any case, we record that the Council of State and the Higher Education Policy spokesman have different rhetoric in school and what the Norwegian school looks like. I want to follow up on some of the things that the representative Sortevik was into, that goes on a professional level. We've heard a lot about it. A lot of money has to be put in. We've tried to find out in some questions to the ministry, during the process that the committee has been through, how they think this should be done. We think it's very good -- and I stress that it's very good -- that they set resources on this level of competence. But we've been trying to ask how this is going to be done, what the time horizon the department is looking at. Is it in one year, or is it in two, three, or four years they're going to spend 2-3 billion dollars? How is that to bet? I agree with the Council of State that this must be done in cooperation with the parties concerned. It is clear that this must be primarily down at the municipal level. It's the individual municipality that can define what kind of needs you have. But first of all, what time horizon does the Government see separately? It's important to know if it's NOK 2-3 billion in a year, whether it's in two years or ten years. The Council of State should say something about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17.ana.ud979e2274	It has been argued in this debate that I am apparently opposed to rhetoric. I'm not, but I'm really too good rhetoric. But what's good and bad, can be taste and pleasure, which can be quite different. But that gives some life to the political debate. In terms of skills development, I can confirm that it is neither one year nor in ten years, but probably a place between one and ten years. The reason why we have to think more thoroughly about this and come back -- we're of course going to do what the Storting asked for, come back with a plan for this -- is that we have to judge what needs to be determined centrally, for example. the grant scheme we now have at our core, and what is going to happen locally, by providing local authorities and schools with the resources they can use for the development of their skills. I also want to add that of course we want to get the most for the money, and there are two places where I think the government is quite popular. It's in the book business, and it's in the course business. There will be many books and lots of courses, and it is quite important that we have control of this process and not let us use, so to speak, in terms of offers that are not good. One example is that in today’s era we have been providing training in ICT to teachers. We said we would offer 40 000. There may be 35,000 who have made use of the offer, but there is no doubt that there is a need for more. So saying exactly how much it should be in advance requires a closer dialogue and investigation.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17.ana.ud979e2289	I will address something that has not been debated or discussed here today. The government says that consideration should be given to introducing a freer school choice in secondary school and whether national provisions should be laid down to this end. It's in the message. So we know that Oslo has introduced free schooling in high school, and that the schools have become very different from the student composition, from the character requirements to enter the individual school, etc. They justify it with an enhanced studentship. From this I would like to ask the Council of State whether it is certain that a strengthened studentship serves the students, when one sees the developments that have taken place here in Oslo, and as I meet in particular. with the Education Association and others have learned that you are reasonably concerned about. There has also been a look-up in the media related to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17.ana.ud979e2296	What is said in the message is that we will investigate this, highlight the question pro a contra - and send something to the hearing. The question of principle here is: are the states going to decide this, or is this a right that must be more linked to the students, and which is then situated above the states in that sense? The problem is that when a school is full and it's a search of some kind, you have to start sorting in high school. We have to sort there, because all schools can't offer everything. It's going to be a little bit better after processing this message, but still-- then the question is, what's the fairest sort criterion? That is what we are discussing. Is it a fair sorting criterion to choose from a place of residence, or is it fair to choose from a character, or should it be a mixture? There are different opinions about this, but in my opinion there is no basis for saying that sorting by character, for example, gives more social segregation than sorting by place of residence, because a residence segregated government, especially in the big cities, is very strong. I think that a freer school choice can help with students' motivation, progress, and they can start to practice choosing, because three years later they can choose school around the world.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17.ana.ud979e2303	The working party acknowledges that the struggle to maintain the classification rule has been lost and that the basic group has arrived. The Workers' Party wants there to be a maximum limit for pupils in the basic groups, but the Government continues that the groups should be "pedagogically sound" - the size should be "pedagogically sound". Early this week we learned that 150 schools were under supervision because they had too large educational groups. There is a development of the Workers' Party, after the majority of the Government has been elected to lift the classification division last year without criteria other than pedagogical soundness. The Education Association requires the reintroduction of student ceilings and justifies the breach of the condition for the termination of the classification division. Does the State Council believe that the current resource situation for the school means that the assumption for the introduction of the basic groups remains valid?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17.ana.ud979e2310	The answer to that is yes. The quality committee said when they put forward their recommendation, that the government had put them in advance by changing the classification rules. They did not intend to introduce new rigid classification rules with the proposal of the Quality Committee. With regard to what has been mentioned here, the so-called supervision of 150 schools, I have to correct the impression that has been created. Firstly, I would say that 150 schools are not a large number measured against 3,300 primary schools, but there are no reports that these have broken the Storting's assumptions. The ministry has not yet reached the conclusion of these studies, but the preliminary conclusions we have received show that for 90 pst. of those examined so far, the basis for such supervision or investigations is incorrect. They haven't broken the Storing's assumptions. As a result, for example: The representative Rolf Reikham has been concerned about this for natural reasons: there does not seem to have been any increase in the number of teaching groups on average since we changed the classification rules, nor is there any basis for saying that there are any municipalities or schools that violate the Stortingen assumption. Then we have to wait for the studies, but that's not how far it looks.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17.ana.ud979e2317	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17.ana.ud979e2320	First, briefly to the Council's reply to the reply. The year is student-proof as a right, and we in the Progress Party will at least reserve ourselves against an interpretation that gives a school owner - read municipalities - with a large number of schools the right to have the 25 pst., which is primarily to be part of the individual student's right and must be able to adapt to the individual student's training needs. If it is to be disposed of collectively by a municipality as a major school owner, there is an understanding we strongly reserve against. I take the floor again because I also want to talk about what is missing in the message. The term of office of the Quality Committee also includes the length of initial training. The mandate shall read as follows: "The selection shall determine and assess the length and extent of the initial training" And on the other hand, "In this context, the sample shall explain how freed resources by any means. 12-year-olds can be recovered in primary and secondary education to ensure and improve quality." A minority of seven in the Quality Committee recommended a reduction, pointing out that this could bring savings of up to $3.5 billion per year - $3,500 million. kr – money that would be earmarked by the minority for quality measures in initial training. A barely majority of nine rejected this and held on to 13 years. The ministry sweeps this away on page 50 of the announcement and at the same time sweeps away $3.5 billion. The propulsion party shall find the reasons applied for: "and it is difficult to establish that a reduction in the training course will not go beyond learning outcomes." It's today's arrangement that affects learning outcomes. Today's school and today's school run are characterized by mediocre results and a school full of trials. A school full of trials is a school looking for its task - a disturbing sign of illness. It is disappointing that the other parties in the committee also jump over this issue. The Progress Party is behind the minority in the Quality Committee and proposes a change to nine-year-old primary school. The notification also does not deal with the funding system for initial training. The quality selection did it. The committee noted that today’s funding system is under pressure for various reasons, mainly because of the financial framework and priorities that local authorities across the country have been doing for many years. We see it most clearly in high school, which also has a large student increase. The quality committee pointed to two possible directions - continued framework funding, but with designation or price. On unit prices, the Quality Committee states that it provides freer user choices, better cost-effectiveness, greater competition and ensuring real and correct demand. The party of progress shares that view. Our financing model has been and is still price financing, and we are once again promoting proposals for such a model. The Party of Progress is committed to strengthening the supervisory role when the degree of freedom is increased. We want to increase parental influence in school and to include a supervisory role alongside other supervisory authorities. The Party wishes to see an oversight not based on the State Training Office carried on under the umbrella of the State. The Progress Party will have a new oversight released from the State, the School Directorate and the Ministry. The foreground lot will have a stand-alone and independent oversight, which shall have an inspection role and oversee the quality work. The Progress Party wants the supervisory work to be carried out at individual schools, not only at private schools, but also at individual public schools. The quality committee recommends changes in teacher training despite the fact that in spring 2002, the Stortinget dealt with teacher training. Different basic training for teachers is recommended and professional skills is re-introduced into education. Ministry refuses to make changes. The Party disagrees with this and proposes, once again, that the training of general teachers be extended to five years, the first three being compulsory and qualified for education in the first four classes. The Communication underlines the need to ensure a significant level of competence for teachers and school leaders in order to achieve the main objectives. Between 2 and 3 billion kroner will cost, as I was in my reply to the Council of State. It becomes too unobligatory and too weak when the department then refers to annual budgets. In the view of the Progress Party, an obligatory plan of skills enhancement must be presented which can provide trust for school owners, school managers, teachers and parents. The Progress Party is pleased that the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre are in agreement with us in this and support our proposal to have such a progress plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17.ana.ud979e2362	This is about our future, about what skills and tools we're going to give our children to master life and the future. For SV, it is important to create a school that places the student in the centre, which provides each student with organized training and which provides equal opportunities and equal rights to education. Public high school is at the heart of our society. Who does not remember the first day of school, with expectations and excitement and dreams about the future? But we have a school that quickly crushes these dreams too many. The school evaluation shows that school today creates systematic differences for children from different homes. We have a school that creates losers and winners. The biggest challenge in school today is to do something about the differences between students with different backgrounds. After graduation, students face a reality with countless sources of information that they need to be able to use and assess critically. They will meet demands for both innovation and initiatives and to be able to cooperate with others on problem solving. In order to be able to cope with the future of work and society, students must therefore leave school with a wide range of competences. A competence that is not adopted today is cultural competence. Cultural competence is essential for the interpretation and interpretation of a complex society and a condition for acquiring the diversity of expressions encountered. Cultural awareness is important both for young people’s orientation and for their ability to create creativity, innovation and wealth of ideas. Art and cultural expressions enhance emotions and promote both reflection, spontaneity and the capacity for innovation. This is essential for a knowledge-based and competitive business. It's important to bet on culture in school. In the future, mastering cultural competences will become more important and important. That's why I'm not a little shocked that the majority doesn't want cultural competence as one of the primary competences in primary school. I am pleased that Stortinget agrees that technology and design should be part of the childhood and childhood training. Technology has a central place in society and everyday life, and is a driving force in the creation of value, social development and the design of life for each of us. In the setting, the Committee writes beautifully about ICT, technology and design. If this had been as important as the majority says, the tools needed to do this would have been used. SV does it. SV believes, like the rest of the Stortinget, that the subject should be multidisciplinary, but united and anchored in a separate curriculum. The experience of Reform 97 shows that technology as a subject area easily disappears if it becomes part of other subjects. The government also proposes only to integrate technology and design into a few subjects, such as real science and the arts and crafts. SV wants this into all disciplines. It is essential that each school has teachers with sufficient skills to provide guidance on the multidisciplinary topic. This means that good technology training will require continuing training of teachers and the development of new learning materials and equipment. The decision today is to introduce technology and design, but only in a small drop. It is very half-hearted, although we know that this subject is very successful in countries around us and that it is forward-looking. SV believes that this is such an important and forward-looking subject that we want to bet on it. But it costs to bet. SV has the money. The size is today going to say in the setting that the school libraries will have a central place in the training. This gives students a reading mind, stimulates self-help, and promotes good working habits, reading and professional depression. Students need to acquire information skills. In its statement, the majority of the Committee argues that the school libraries already play an important role as the arena for developing skills in learning strategies, media literacy and source criticism. The Committee also considers it natural that the school libraries should be further developed to make them a central learning venue. I think of this as strong signals, or as a message to the Government from the Storting that in future budgets, a strengthening of the school libraries and finding other ways to strengthen the libraries. Studies today show that many school students have little access to school libraries and that the quality of supply in many places is very low. We have to get a school that's full of books. SV wants an inclusive public school with more time for each individual student and a practical and real-life training. Unlike the Government, we are willing to give priority to the school in front of tax relief and to provide the school with a liberal economic framework. SV proposes measures that will be effective to improve the ability of public schools to take care of all pupils and provide them with modern and forward-looking education.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17.ana.ud979e2385	St.meld. No 30 is exciting reading. It gives Norwegian school a new direction by emphasising and focusing on the school as a knowledge intermediary and by strengthening local freedom of action and the individual teacher’s freedom of method. The Committee's position shows that there is agreement on important road choices for Norwegian schools, while in several areas there is real disagreement. For my part, I am not sorry that this disagreement is coming to light. I think it is important to show clearly that there is disagreement as to which way the school should go, that there is disagreement as to which knowledge to base, that there is disagreement as to how much to focus on the role of the school as a knowledge provider, that there is disagreement as to how important it is to set quality standards and to follow up on the work to improve quality. The approach shows that clear policy lines cross Norwegian school policies. For the Right, it is important to stress that we want a school that should have its main task as a knowledge intermediary. The students go to school to learn, to get knowledge. This does not happen at the expense of the school’s social pedagogical task. The student's sense of security and well-being at school does not depend on not getting knowledge. That's what sometimes sounds like. No, increasing learning outcomes increases security. It is therefore important to stress the requirement for quality in education, to strengthen the skills of teachers and school leaders, and to make school owners aware of the content and quality of the school. A school that gives room for local freedom of action, while giving schools the freedom of method, will lay the basis for this. The whole message is permeated by the desire for local freedom of action. That's right. That's right. The removal of the so-called "Broen" gives teachers the freedom of method again. Freedom of method is not scary, as claimed by one of the hearing bodies during the Committee’s hearing. The freedom of method is to release the creativity of the teachers. It's raising the skills of the teachers. It's increasing the quality of teaching. By enabling up to 25 pst to be disposed of. the number of hours locally provided for the possibility to organise the teaching in relation to local conditions. This could be a boost for adapted training. I would like to stress the Committee's comment that in practice it must be the individual school that determines how these hours are to be spent. The intention of this point is not for municipalities to make decisions that lock these hours for each school. The school knows where the shoe prints. Schools are best placed to make the right and reasonable decisions. The basic skills are important for all students. Reading, writing, calculating, expressing itself verbally and being able to use digital tools are essential to enable the necessary competences to be acquired. It is therefore important that these basic skills are now clarified as so important that they have to penetrate the whole school and start at the first stage. This is not a substitute for the overall build-up of competences. The school will continue to play an important role in many areas, but the acquisition of basic skills is actually a prerequisite for the desired building of individual competences. The increase in the number of hours spent in childhood, the introduction of mandatory 2nd foreign languages at secondary school and the strengthening of the requirements for general study competence are all elements of higher quality. I admit that I was initially skeptical of the proposal for mandatory second foreign language at high school. My 29 years of experience in school may have come out here. However, I have come to the conclusion that with the device 2nd foreign language, with a much greater emphasis on practical skills, this is a correct grip. But if one is to succeed, the practical device must become a reality. It requires the training of foreign language teachers and, in the near future, the re-training of foreign language teachers in secondary school. I therefore assume that this subject is given priority by means of the development of competences. I also refer to the Committee's comments on exemptions in the second foreign language. It is important that the right to special education is maintained by the Training Act. The legal certainty of the students is thus ensured. At the same time, however, there must be a target to reduce its use. There can be no doubt that a large number of pupils who are now being trained by single decision could have met their needs through adapted training. Finally, a little bit about the side objective: the government’s proposal for continued written secondary education, the absence of the secondary education examination at primary school and the secondary objectives as a draft subject in secondary school are established. When measuring the knowledge of the entire Norwegian subject through the examination, it is natural that the individual parts of the subject are measured. The lateral dimension is such a part. It is therefore natural that this subject also gets its part of the examination task. However, there must be no doubt that the main language is the most important and must constitute the most essential part of the examination task. I have a good feeling after the treatment of the Storing Message. It's a Norwegian school lift. It adjusts the course, and it leads the school on a more correct path. But now the message has to be followed up. The school must use its local space for action.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17.ana.ud979e2406	There is a lot of good in Norwegian school today. That is the starting point for the message. Our common challenges are to make the school better. The message states that the common ball, for which the Labour Party has worked, has worked. The message further determines that basic education is good and that most students leave school with a good learning outcomes. However, the evaluation of Reform 97 shows that we have not been closed in realizing the ideal of training adapted to each individual student. Taking up further is an important challenge. Such is the reality, not as the Right parliamentary leader, Oddvard Nilsen, has repeated in some reading posts around the country, that the school is in ruins. The ball is good in a lot of areas. The ball is among our most important social institutions. That's why it's important that the school meet the challenges of a more knowledge-driven society, which we now have. Teachers are the school's most important resource. Therefore, they must also have the necessary skills. In the Labour Party, we believe that introducing a basic competence as part of the holistic competence that the school is going to develop is very important. However, the Labour Party would stress that cultural skills and understanding need to be more closely involved in basic competence. Cultural competences are important in order to function in the complex society that we have subsequently acquired. So I'll say a little bit about the side measure. I wish that one didn't make any changes to the system that we have today, with a main goal and a side goal. But for the Right, it was probably an ideological question to reduce the meaning of the side goal, read in a new way. In the Labour Party we had the choice to stand on that we wouldn't have any change in today's system, and then left to the government party to get multiple numbers with the Advance Party to weaken the new Norse in the School. The Labour Party chose to reach a compromise that would prevent the Government from getting an impact on its primary position. The Norwegian language is one subject with two symstilized writing languages, nine Norse and book goals. There's no doubt that both of these writings have made our language richer. If this is to happen, it is absolutely necessary for all students to be familiar with and be able to use both forms of font. The background to the system of side objectives is the principle of balancing between both objectives, and it is 1885. This means that all public bodies should be able to use nynostic and book targets, and that means that all employees in state-owned establishments should master both the nynostic and book targets. If this is to happen, there has to be training in both the target forms, and that's what this compromise points out, that we have two even-faced writing languages. I think there's a much better option on the table today than the one that the government came with. That is why it can be defended. National samples shall be progressively substituted for take-off samples. I wrote that down. New curricula are to be developed for the Norwegian profession, both in the main and in the side. It's part of the premiscuous basis for getting involved and reducing something on the scope of the side-by-side exam. I think it's done a good job to improve the starting point that the government provided, and I'm happy with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17.ana.ud979e2429	The education debate in Norway has changed considerably in recent years. The 1990s was the decade of the educational structure, while the 2000s have become the decade of content. That it was necessary, I have not heard any protests about, and it delights the Right that the very quality of the education the children receive is mainly today. Norway was in many ways taken a little to bed in international comparative studies, and in particular the OECD PISA study gave School-Norway a thinker. The results of this survey showed great differences in levels between students, and they clearly showed that the single school has failed to give everyone the opportunity in life that we all hope for. Recent studies have also shown that the school in Norway has a potential for improvement. Of course, it has not been entirely agreed on how the improvements should be done, but the big message "Culture for learning" answers in the Right's view all the questions about what should be changed in Norwegian school. There is a strong consensus that the role and competence of the teacher is important for Norwegian school. For this reason, the Government proposes a large package of skills for teachers and to impose admission requirements on students applying for the higher education institutions. It's no secret that being a teacher is demanding. The right person with the right skills is the recipe for a good teacher, and to achieve it, action is required from us who have political responsibility. In the opinion of the Right, the teacher competence package and more stringent admission requirements for teacher students are very accurate in order to make Norwegian teachers even better equipped to meet tomorrow's school. Tomorrow's school is, in the Right's opinion, a school where, among other things. policy-makers shall stop detailing how teachers are to be taught. In the Right School, there is freedom of speech, and the teacher has to decide how to teach the children. The teacher may use his pedagogical knowledge in his classroom in his own way. Several studies show that too many Norwegian children can read and write too poorly. This is a challenge the Right takes seriously and does something with it. Reading and writing is central through the basic skills that will penetrate all disciplines. Too many times we've heard of students going through Norwegian school without being able to read and write properly, and this requires action by politicians. Students must now start reading and writing training from the first class and must be tested several times through national examinations through their schooling. This is done to provide a good basis for early education and to ensure that the school can correct training. Everyone is then given a chance to master at least the basic skills, such as: reading and writing are. The concept of knowledge has been discussed in the context of the processing of the Storing message "Culture for learning". For the Right, knowledge is important when you want to raise the quality of school. Increasing the level of knowledge of students is important both for individuals and for the nation of Norway. Knowledge is power, it is claimed, and knowledge is important for people to evolve further. In addition, international competition is increasing every year. If Norway is to be able to claim itself in the world, which we all want, we must ensure that the children get the best possible knowledge through their schooling. These are of course the things that we all agree with, but that's exactly why it surprises me that some parties are against, among other things. compulsory 2nd foreign languages in secondary school and more mathematics in preparatory studies at secondary level. In the Right's view, the school is a place primarily for learning, not just for being. The Storting message "Culture for Learning" is in many ways a switch from system thinking to content thinking for the Norwegian school. The right has always wanted a greater focus on what is actually happening inside the classrooms, but unfortunately this hasn't been too central before the Cooperation Government joined. Quality enhancement is a much more difficult political approach than structural change is. Sometimes this is related, while sometimes changes in methods and changes in content are required. Today, the government is given a majority for its school reform. It is therefore a great day for Norwegian school. When in addition to the high school today is buried once and for all, there is a school at the premise of the six-year-olds starting in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17.ana.ud979e2453	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17.ana.ud979e2456	A few hours ago, I was involved in a debate on the communicative proposition. There was a lot of talk about economics, especially about the economy of municipalities and county municipalities, and it was said that we can't afford to give a good enough offer to the inhabitants, including. in-school. The Progress Party has the solution. But there was and is little will to discuss it. What's better than through the state budget making a setup where the money follows the student, i.e. what's referred to as a piece price or student resource? After all, when the class concept disappears, the best solution is to replace a class resource with a student resource. Schools may publish the offerings they have the competence to publish. They may, on the basis of applications, initiate the offers they have at their disposal. Schools are paid for each individual student, from the state, according to which offer the student chooses. Upland counties have introduced a unit price. We've put a basic amount on each school at the bottom. Then we've put in a discretionary grant that will take care of unforeseen things and changes, and then we have a clean price of 70 pst. of the entire funding. In addition, students with special needs shall be fully funded. Schools are positive to this model, as it gives schools freedom and challenges. That's what the schools want, but that's probably what the appeal point of the Workers' Party and SV is. The best thing about such a solution is that the economy no longer becomes a problem, and that the student gets to choose the direction of study they want to take, and where they want to take it. The money comes with the student. Finally, I would just like to mention that the unit price was introduced in high school in Oppland, among other things. support also from the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17.ana.ud979e2469	I have to be allowed to spend a few minutes on a couple of themes that are not affected by Right-wing speakers. First, in the case of these 158 schools that are going to have too high averages on group sizes, it's said that this was something we heard this week. That's actually not right. This is carefully described and explained in the Storing Message. I refer to page 92. There's a lot about this. So a little bit about advice. What is important is that the schools should have local freedom to organise the advisory service. The question of shared service or common social pedagogical and professional counselling must be decided locally. It must be a local task both to organise the advisory service and to provide the advisory service with a good framework. It is important that the counselling service has to have a solid foundation in each school. It gives closeness to students and counselors, and then gives best advice. This is actually an area that I think I have something to do with. I myself have been an adviser in high school for over ten years. So some words about parental cooperation. Right wants a school-home collaboration that gives parents real help. Therefore, we strongly underline this in a comment in the setting, "real participation". We also want legal parents' councils. Although there are few alternatives to parental councils, the effective involvement of parents is not ensured by the legislative cooperation committees. These samples work very differently in different schools, from very good to incredibly bad. Where this works well, it should continue, but otherwise this should be organised in different ways locally. However, real participation shall be ensured for parents. This is actually also an area I think I have a certain competence to comment on. As a father, a teacher and a principal in a high school, I have seen how cooperation committees can work and how they shouldn't work. I must say that I am disappointed that we do not get a majority for this. Local freedom at this point would strengthen the real contribution of parents. Now this will continue to be organised in several places through a non-functioning, sleeping, but legal cooperation committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17.ana.ud979e2482	The most important thing about the message is that we now want to highlight the school as a learning organisation. We want to create a culture for learning. The government has also provided a message that has taken the main flows in Norwegian school, and the message has been well received. The Communication follows the direction of the Quality Committee's proposal, but in close proximity to all the proposals proposed by the Quality Committee. In essential respects, the notification also deviates from the quality committee’s proposal, for example: in the case of special education, and also in the case of the basic concept of competence. But the government is today getting in touch with the notification, and gets most proposals through with a varying majority. It is in the debate that tried to draw up dividing lines that seem somewhat upbuilt and rhetorically exaggerated on me. The claim of different human views seems to me to take cake, especially when it is linked to professional and study preparation. The Christian People's Party's view of humanity is independent of this, and underlines human dignity independently of profession or study. The representative Reikvam's justification for different human views creates confusion as to what the SV's human vision is, and should be made absolutely clear. The knowledge view of the Christian People's Party also focuses on an overall competence in which generalisation and skills go hand in hand. We are very familiar with the general curriculum, which will be passed on. In the Quality Committee consultation round, their basic competence is very much criticised. Among other things, in my opinion, they are denying the ethical competence that it is desirable to raise. The Christian People's Party believes that the basic competence of the Quality Committee was neither elucidating nor precise enough in relation to our whole learning vision. Focusing on basic skills, as well as ethical social and cultural competence, provides an overall competence to master life and challenge. Developing quality in school is best done locally. School-based assessment will continue, but the Quality Committee also proposed the development of a national quality assurance system, including national tests. The Socialist Left Party agreed with this. Also in St. Report. No 28 for 1998-1999, Towards richer objectives, national tests were discussed. I therefore believe that St. Announce. No 28 provided the basis for multi-agent thinking to ensure good quality, including national tests. I think the message and today's decision will create a better school.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17.ana.ud979e2493	One of the happy features of today's big news is that the teacher's fundamental role and the very fundamental role of teacher training in a good school are highlighted more clearly than ever before. I allow myself in that context a slight element of the meeting with forgotten years. Prior to the 2001 enlargement elections, I stated in a newspaper interview that it might be a good idea to set professional minimum standards at the entrance to teacher training. It triggered something near a national kingdom. Today, there is a broad consensus that this is a rather self-evident idea, and there are good reasons to hope that the learning process is gradually speeding up in Norwegian society in general. So a little comment on the question of Norwegian training. We are struggling with a rather heavy legacy in this area that is embedded in the apparent contradiction that the principle is that our two official target forms should be equal, and that they should be treated in the same way on the one hand, and on the other hand, a terminology that calls out a long way about the opposite, namely, the main objectives and the side objectives of terminology. It's in itself a terminology that at best is unfortunate, at worst directly misleading to the mind. At my discretion, it is gratifying that we are taking a step towards strengthening and improving Norwegian training, as we do with this message. I am convinced that, in particular, the new Norse is served by the fact that the volume of synthetically produced side goals is reduced over time - whether it is guaranteed to be a deadline for the new, it is to continue that policy - and that instead of laying the foundation for a new and forward-looking policy, where the principle should be that no Norwegian citizen should in any context be forced to write any form of Norwegian other than the one he himself has freely chosen, feels familiar with and masters.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17.ana.ud979e2500	Following Mr Olsen's statement, I feel the need to clarify something in relation to the counselling service, because he said that the question of whether the counselling service should be shared “must be decided locally”. That's right with regard to high school, but the majority of the committee is very clear here, and I quote: "The majority believe that the counselling service should be divided into a part of vocational and educational guidance and a part of psychosocial counselling in the field of secondary education." This is entirely in line with what the Centre Party proposed a year ago in a Document No. Eight proposals, and we are very pleased that the majority of the committee has come to this solution. In addition, it is also stressed that counselling is something that needs to be ensured in business plans, i.e. in school management, so that it becomes a natural part of the school’s work, and that it is something that needs to be continuous in high school and high school.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17.ana.ud979e2510	The representative Arne Sortevik has spoken twice in this debate and is now given the floor for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17.ana.ud979e2513	The note is related to lateral dimensions. We think that the names "main goals" and "side goals" are good terms, but they have to be used like this. And we also think that those who choose will realize that that's what they choose, that's between the main and the side dimensions. But quite specifically, I will refer to St.meld. No 30, page 43, where the Ministry assesses that: "If the students are withdrawn from the Norwegian course for a written examination at primary school, the pupils shall be tested only in the main course of study." In this language policy backlash, the government parties and the Workers' Party have now changed to the ‘one written Norwegian exam’, where the side target is to be included as a sub-element. It's something quite different, and we also think that parents and students will respond when it comes to what this actually means.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17.ana.ud979e2523	I now want to sum it up this way at the bottom of the debate: the government is well informed about its school message. It surprises me that you're trying to create the big dividing lines here when a unanimous committee "considers that as well generalisation as mastering skills are essential for working, social and private life. The school shall develop the whole human being through work on values, ethics and culture. The Committee considers that the basic skills are not contrary to, and should not be at the expense of, the general education". When the representative Reikvam repeats and repeats that the government only focuses on skills and has a one-sided knowledge view, this does not match what we have achieved in a unanimous committee comment. He also elaborates on what the Quality Committee said about basic competence, but he also has to add something, so they haven't found the final expression. I want to quote what Helga Hjetland says in the magazine "Education": "The concept of basic competence in the setting up of the quality committee contained both skills and attitudes. Focusing on skills is more honest than slipping everything into one concept. This does not mean that education is not an important concept. The school's social mandate and purpose clarify the school's broad perspectives and tasks, and we must maintain that." School-Norway is pleased with the school message that has been submitted. With regard to the setting that we are discussing today, we have come up with many unanimous remarks. The Government Parties, together with the Advancement Party, are in favour of what Helga Hjetland summarises that they have achieved, namely a particularly positive level of competence, we have achieved a mandatory and practically targeted second language of youth, increased requirements for study competence, assessment of admission requirements for teacher training, a pamphlet system for newly trained teachers and the right to special education. The Christian People's Party is particularly pleased that we can still have a general part with us, and a unanimous committee also agrees with that. The Christian People's Party is based on a human vision that says that all people are equally worth it. That's why we want an equivalent school, with adapted training for everyone. In general, it is precisely said that the birthing should be based on fundamental Christian and humanistic values. We want to make a good school better, and the main priority now is the lifting of competences for the teachers. Plato said it this way: A good teacher writes not his message with ink that fades, but in people.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17.ana.ud979e2544	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 12 and 13. [[See pages 3488 and 3491]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17.ana.ud979e2559	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3492]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17.ana.ud979e2576	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3492]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17.ana.ud979e2591	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3492]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17.ana.ud979e2606	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17.ana.ud979e2623	Fishing safety training has been mandatory since 1989. The fishing industry has, throughout history, been a profession that has been affected by many serious accidents. When introducing mandatory safety training, the number of accidents has fallen considerably and is currently at a stable lower figure than before. Preventing accidents through training appears to have been an effective tool, to the best of both fishermen and their families. The structure of the security training offer is mainly organised in two ways. One is an ambulance vessel offering courses at different locations along the coast. The second is six permanent coastal safety centres providing the same training. The courses offered are initial training, repetition courses which must be repeated every seven years. 1 723 fishermen took one of these courses last year. The State allocation for this purpose was 16,227 million in 2003. NOK, of which SEK 9.2 million went for the operation of the ambulance vessel. Fishermen over the age of 20 today pay a share of the training. The question that will come forward in the future is how much fishermen themselves will pay out of security training and how to organise the offers in the future. These questions are addressed by the majority of the Committee, and the Government is asked to return to the Grand Duchy with its opinions. The minority in the committee wants to preserve today's system, which I expect the minority will explain. To the right, there are two things that are important when discussing safety training for fishermen. One is that there is a good quality offer and that the fisherman does not have to pay more than the maximum necessary to obtain that offer. It is therefore important to look at current organisation and agreements and consider other solutions to them. It is also important that fishermen receive an offer that is within the cost framework, which should preferably be better than they are today. I note that the minority wants everything to be as it is today. The right believes that all possibilities have to be looked at, in order to ensure a good offer within as low a cost as possible for the state and fishermen. Safety training has worked satisfactorily under today's model, but it must not prevent the Department and the Storting from looking at other solutions that can work better.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17.ana.ud979e2640	The fishing industry is demanding. It is a profession where people challenge nature, it is a profession that is risky, and where the possibility of life loss will always be present. Good seafarership and knowledge of fishing and fishing, as well as the experience of generations of life at sea, contribute to secure safety on board. But it wasn't until the safety training for the fishermen started that the number of people killed at sea went down. When the training started in 1989, approximately 30 fishermen each year at sea. The number of deaths has gradually decreased, and in the last five years the loss rate has ranged from eight to ten per person. years. An interim evaluation of the training shows that a significant reason for the severe reduction in the number of fatal accidents is good safety training. Training is compulsory for all those who are required to work on fish-registered vessels and has been fully financed since the start. The basic course has been free, but there has been a certain proportion of the rehearsal course. The government proposed in St. prp. No 1 for 2003-2004 to wind up the State contribution to the safety training of fishermen in 2004. Both the SV, the Central Party, the Advance Party and the Workers' Party wanted to continue the scheme, and the final budget agreement added another 3 million. kr in this item to prevent winding-up. The working party believes that offering fishermen safety training is a public task. There is reason to recall the majority comment in the budget input. No 12 for 2002-2003, where the Labour Party, SV, the Centre Party, the representative Simonsen and the Progress Party - and also the Progress Party - stated the following: "This majority believes that the training vessel is essential to provide fishermen with good training. "And this majority proposes that the safety training of fishermen be continued in their present form and with the training vessel." This was also the reason why these parties promoted a private proposal, which reads: "The decision asks the Government to ensure that the security training of fishermen is financed so that the scheme is continued." It is essential that training is now clarified in terms of funding and further operations. The uncertainty experienced by both fishermen and those working on this training is unworthy and serves no purpose. It is therefore very regrettable, but perhaps not so surprising, that the Progress Party has now turned its back on what they have promised in the past. In the position to be taken by the Stortinge today, the Progress Party suddenly believes that the Ministry should look at today's organisation and evaluate different models, including funding. That is why there is reason to challenge the Progress Party on what they actually think about the security training. How can it be that the Progress Party only a few months ago wanted the scheme to continue in its present form, while they now want the Ministry to assess different arrangements? How serious is the Progress Party, in fact, about its own comments? I expect the Progress Party to clarify this in the course of the debate. The question is very important to the fishermen from Lindesnes and to Grense-Jakobsev. The working party will therefore once again refer to its original position. In contrast to the Progress Party, we maintain our proposal, namely: "Safety training for fishermen is maintained and continued in its current form." The government, together with the Progress Party, will get a majority to start an investigation of the organisation and funding. But I urge the strong Council of State that the work on assessing the organisation and funding is carried out in close cooperation with fishermen's own organisations. I'm addressing the minority proposal from the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17.ana.ud979e2677	The representative Eva M. Nielsen has taken up the proposal she herself referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17.ana.ud979e2680	The Party of Progress has secured this mechanism for several years when it has been under attack. We have also been concerned about securing it this year, in 2004, as there was no money for a whole year. It is ensured by the revised national budget. We are committed to securing future arrangements, and we will do so after having received a thorough review of both current and possible future solutions. We are satisfied with the conclusion of the vote, and I believe that fishermen too can be satisfied with the conclusion.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17.ana.ud979e2689	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 18th@item: inlistbox Then Stortinget will end the morning meeting. [[See page 3492]] The President will draw attention to the fact that when a new meeting is set at 5 p.m. 18, it will be suggested that cases No. 34 and 35 are listed first.
