ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-23.ana.ud2576e99	The representative Anita Apelthun Seal, who has been licensed, has again taken the seat. The following called alternates have taken their seats: For Akershus County: Sverre Myrli and Harald Espelund For the county of Rogaland: Elin Schanche For Troms County: Ruth Stenersen Two permit applications are available: from the Workers' Group on the sick leave of the representative Gunhild Eyering from 23 November onwards and until further notice from the Right-wing Group on the sick leave of the representative Silja Ekeland Bjørkly from 23 November until further notice These applications are proposed for immediate consideration and approval. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The first alternate for the Hordaland County, Erlend Nornes, is currently abroad and is therefore prevented from meeting in the Stortinge under the representative Silja Ekeland Bjørkly's leave. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The representatives of the goods, for the county of Hordaland Bente Gunn Håtfuft and for the counties of the South Ola Røtvej, are called to meet during the period of leave.2. Ola Røtvej is elected to Lagtinget for the time he meets the representative of the Gunhild eye.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-23.ana.ud2576e159	The representative Heikki Holmås will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-23.ana.ud2576e162	I would like to make a proposal on behalf of Geir-Ketil Hansen, Karin Andersen and myself on measures for the treatment of non-returnable asylum seekers with final rejections and other non-reportable foreigners.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-23.ana.ud2576e167	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-23.ana.ud2576e177	Unfortunately, the security situation in Iraq has not improved since my last statement, 14 June this year. Despite the considerable military resources deployed, the situation in parts of the country cannot be said to be under control. I think in particular about: the sustained and widespread use of violence against both Iraqi security forces and the multinational force-enhancing frequent terrorist actions against political and civilian Iraqi-targeted repeated abductions and corruption of foreigners, including international relief workers; Despite this very difficult safety situation, the Iraqi Interim Government is firm that there is no alternative to the course it has worked out. It maintains that the path to increased stability is going through a political process based on democratic values. In this work, the interim government of the various Iraqi populations and international communities, headed by the UN, is supported. World society has a share of responsibility for further development in Iraq. That's why the government's view is that we're still going to contribute. The success of these efforts together is crucial for the future of the Iraqi population. Developments in Iraq will also be of great importance to neighbouring countries and the stability of the region. The Security Council has taken binding decisions that impose on us all a responsibility for Iraq's further development. It is not enough to say what we have been – or are – against. We also have to say what we are for, what we can and should do. Nevertheless, let me remind you of the government's clear and unambiguous attitude to the key issues facing international society last March before the invasion of Iraq: Firstly, despite Iraq's clear failure to comply with Resolution 1441, the Government considered that UN weapons inspectors should continue their work. They had made progress, and we thought that a specific work programme should be drawn up with strict but achievable deadlines. Secondly, the Government considered that there was not a sufficient basis for international law to go to military action against Iraq. A new decision on this in the UN Security Council would be necessary. Or, as the Prime Minister said in the Stortinget on 21 March 2003, when the Iraq war was in its second day: ‘We wanted to resolve the Iraq conflict peacefully. Now it's being settled by military means. Winning the war is one thing. Something completely different is to win the peace afterwards.’ This was the government's analysis of the situation at the time. The following time, among others: what we now know about the lack of weapons of mass destruction has confirmed the correctness of the Government's position. The focus has also been on whether the handling after the invasion has been correct. And then here it's clear that a lot could have been done differently. For example, I showed in my speech in Oslo Military Society on October 4th. until the detention in Abu Ghraib was outrageous and devastating. New television images, this time from Fallujah, show outrageous acts by American soldiers. The Geneva Conventions apply and must be respected in Iraq. Violations of these must be investigated, and the culprits must be held responsible. It was hardly wise that so many former members of the Baath Party were excluded from society, and that the Iraqi army and the Iraqi police were dissolved. The abuses that have been committed — and the misassessments that have been made — have contributed to making the reconstruction more difficult. But the key issue now is: what can we do to help bring development into Iraq to the right path? The despot Saddam Hussein and his tyranny are a fairy tale. Iraq has received an interim government which has made it clear that its future foundation will be the People's Rule. This government has the unanimous support of the Security Council as a representative and legitimate temporary board, pending the implementation of the planned elections. Iraq needs assistance for stabilisation and reconstruction, for peace and security for its people, and for the development of a democratic system. It is our joint responsibility to contribute to this. The basis for such joint action is UNSCR 1546 of 8 June this year. The resolution draws up the framework for a broad international approach in order to facilitate the transition to a democratically elected government, the free exercise of the right of self-determination by the Iraqi people and the full availability of its own resources. At the same time, the resolution states that international support for the restoration of stability and security is essential for the Iraqi people and for the ability to implement the stated objectives. This is the background to the Security Council’s request to NATO and other regional organisations to assist the Iraqi Interim Government. A similar request was made directly by the Interim Government at the NATO Summit in Istanbul in June. There was also a special meeting between Iraqi authority representatives and the foreign ministers of the NATO countries where the Iraqis made the request concrete. However, the appeal to NATO by the UN Security Council and the Iraqi Government does not stem from the fact that the basic responsibility for security must lie with the Iraqi authorities. At the same time, the international community must take its share of responsibility and continue its efforts to stabilise the situation in Iraq. It has been the government's consistent line to actively contribute to this. We're going to continue that line. Norway has consistently followed the UN track both before and after the war. As I said, the aim is to contribute to the creation of a stable, democratic Iraq. In this context, we face three main challenges: Firstly, to contribute to improved security and stability in all parts of the country. We have no positive developments in Iraq without increased security. Secondly, to strengthen the democratic political process – a process in which the implementation of the elections in January next year will be a milestone. We have no broad and stable development in the country without strengthened legitimacy for the Iraqi regime. Thirdly, to facilitate and establish the framework conditions for economic development in the country. The reconstruction and revitalisation of the economy is also a prerequisite for positive development in Iraq. With its natural resources, Iraq is well placed to survive in the long term without international development assistance. Norway therefore has no long-term assistance plans for Iraq. In the following I will discuss these three dimensions. I would also like to make some assessments regarding the development of other parts of the Middle East. The primary, immediate objective of the Iraqi regime and the international community is to increase security and stability in all parts of Iraq. Creating safe conditions for the population is essential for the implementation of democratic political processes and for the economic and social development of the country. As reported in news reports, a Norwegian-funded study conducted by UNDP and FAFO has concluded that there is an alarming high level of acute malnutrition among children in parts of the country. In the view of the Government, this further underlines the need for security and stability in Iraq. Unfortunately, it has proved extremely difficult to stabilise the situation in the country. The frequent and devastating attacks from the rebel forces persist. The international community must be clear in its distance from these attacks. They create suffering for the population and jeopardize the political process. These acts of terrorism are also the background to Prime Minister Allawi’s declared state of emergency on 7 November this year for 60 days. If the elections are to be held as planned in January, with the necessary political legitimacy, the population must be given a minimum of security and security. Safety challenges are particularly great in the so-called sunni triangle around Baghdad, as in the cities of Fallujah and Samarra. The situation in this part of Iraq has long been a very serious challenge to the Iraqi Interim Government and to the multinational force. The situation in Fallujah also posed a direct threat to the political process in the country. This was the background to the military action taken on 8 November to gain control of the city and surrounding areas. The operation was carried out in close cooperation with Iraqi security forces and was only initiated after Prime Minister Allawi had given a clear signal. Although the multinational force has now taken military control of Fallujah, at the same time we see that the unrest has spread to other parts of the region. The safety situation remains uncontrollable. The rebel groups behind the violent acts are complex and heterogeneous, but dominated by sunni-arabes, who play in dissatisfaction in this part of the population. For a very long time, the Sunni people have had disproportionately strong control over Iraq's political course, and this is now threatened by a more even distribution of power. Former members of the Baath Party are particularly active. Other Islamic groups, including the network of al-Zarkawi, who seem to have ties with Al-Qaeda, are very well organized and assumed to be behind a number of attacks. Unfortunately, we have to expect these groups to seek to continue the acts of violence. For political and other reasons, they see themselves clearly served by the failure of the Iraqi interim government to succeed in the political process under way. Creating chaos and fear, frightening the Iraqis from engaging in the political process and rebuilding important national institutions, seem to be their aim. The attacks on Iraqi police stations and recruitment centres of the Iraqi security forces must be seen in such a context. It also appears to be an objective for the rebel groups, through terrorism and violence, to discourage international organisations, non-governmental organisations and entrepreneurs from engaging in Iraq. If they are successful, they will undoubtedly have a similar negative impact on the development of the country. However, the conflict situation in Iraq is not uniform. The situation is calmer in the Shia-dominated areas of the south and in the Kurdish regions of the north, although we have seen an increase in the violence, mainly at the city of Mosul. It is important that these areas remain stable. Otherwise, we can easily find ourselves in a situation where developments in Iraq are moving towards increasing internal fragmentation, which in turn could result in regional destabilization. One of the reasons for the more stable situation in the north of the country is enough that the Iraqi interim government has not challenged the privileges of the Kurds. This is where Prime Minister Allawi has shown political wisdom. At the same time, it is important that the Kurds and their rights are also respected in the new Iraqi Constitution that will be drafted next year. The core means of combating acts of terrorism and stabilising the security situation is the multinational force. Today, it counts about 150 000 people, of whom American forces make up the majority. Although more than thirty countries contribute to this force, there is no doubt that the United States, and to some extent the United Kingdom, will still have to bear the main weight of the multinational military effort in Iraq. Countries such as Germany and France do not want to engage in military activities, nor do any other countries seem willing to take on a greater role. The war in Iraq was a central theme of the U.S. election campaign. The re-election of President George W. Bush on 2 November must therefore also be seen as an expression of support among the American population for the continuation of the Iraq policy of the current administration. At the same time, we know that it is a declared American goal to build up the vast American military presence as soon as the time comes. In the long term, it will therefore be essential for the Iraqis themselves to be able to ensure their own security. This will also be important in order to strengthen the legitimacy of the government in the population. However, the government that will be established after the elections in January has no choice at first. It will have to request continued international military presence in order to ensure the security of the country. The UN Security Council in Resolution 1546 of 8 June called for international support to restore security and stability in the country. It is in this context that we need to see the decision at the NATO Summit in Istanbul in June this year to contribute to the training of Iraqi security forces. The Council of NATO unanimously adopted on 17 November the operational plan for a NATO-led training mission in Iraq. It adds up to a NATO force of some 1,700 people, of whom 300 will be responsible for the actual training. The rest of the force will include, inter alia: provide services related to headquarters, transport, logistics and the protection of fixed installations and NATO personnel. The more general security in Iraq will, as it is now, be safeguarded by the multinational force. In addition to the training itself in Iraq, NATO will also be training Iraqi security forces outside Iraq. Provision is made for the training and training of senior and intermediate managers at allied training institutions, including at the NATO Centre on Yåttå outside Stavanger. The first course was completed at the beginning of November. It is important that NATO succeeds in carrying out the task undertaken by the Alliance in Iraq. The NATO force must adhere to its mandate, i.e.: to undertake training and not participate in combat actions. The government emphasises that there is no sliding expansion of NATO's involvement. This has been ensured by limiting the efforts of NATO in training within a defined training centre with the necessary support functions. The NATO Security Facility will be a particular challenge. It is therefore important that we maintain that it is the multinational force that has the primary responsibility for security. The EU has also offered to contribute, including: for training Iraqi police. An expert group will be sent to Iraq to assess this. With regard to Norway's military involvement in Iraq, we are currently participating with up to 10 staff officers in the British and Polish sectors. The Government has previously decided, with the anchoring of the organs of the Storting, to contribute a smaller number of military personnel to the reconstruction of the Iraqi defence within the framework of the International Stabilisation Force. This has been decided by the Government for the time being and is now considering whether to contribute to NATO training missions in Iraq with a smaller number of instructors. From the Norwegian side, we take all necessary precautions to protect our personnel, and we also have close and close cooperation with our other allies. In addition to the staff officers and, where appropriate, the contribution to military training inside Iraq, as I said, training of Iraqi military personnel at Jåttå. Furthermore, we have made an offer from Norway to the Iraqi Interim Government to assist in the training of senior Iraqi police officers in Norway. This is based on the positive experience we have had with similar training programmes for police officers in the Balkans and now in Afghanistan. Going as planned, the first group of Iraqi police officers will arrive in the new year. In total, we aim to complete four courses. Durable security and stability cannot be achieved by military action alone. The political process, both in Iraq and in relation to neighbouring countries, is therefore a very important part of contributing to stability in Iraq. The transfer of power to the Iraqi Interim Government in June and the holding of the National Congress in August were important steps towards a democratic system based on the rule of law. Despite the very difficult safety situation, it has now been possible to follow the progress plan for the establishment of legitimate governance structures, as foreseen by the UN Security Council. It is very important that progress is maintained in months to come. The next milestone is the closure of elections to a new national Parliament which is scheduled to take place by the end of January next year. The national Parliament will have as one of its main tasks the establishment of a constitution to be used as the basis for the election of a new government by the end of 2005. It is a prerequisite for the government to have the necessary legitimacy, for a broad opening up of the electoral process. There are many bad news from Iraq, but it is also important to raise the positive trends that exist. Elevated signals have recently come from Shiamuslim leaders such as Storayatollah Ali al-Sistani, who have given their full support to the democratisation process. In addition, Moqtada al-Sadr, the radical leader of the Shia Muslim Mahdi militia, has given more amicable signals — after long armed resistance. From the Kurdish team, it seems that the elections will have broad support. A federal, united Iraq – with legitimate governance – will also be a positive development for this group. It is now very important that the population of the Sunni-dominated areas also see the value of engaging in the forthcoming elections. The Arab Sunni Muslims represent about one-fifth of the population of Iraq, and their opening up to the elections will therefore be essential for assessing the outcome. Lack of participation on their part in the electoral process and in the future governance could contribute to weakening it. The UN will have a central role to play in ensuring that the elections – as far as possible – are conducted in accordance with accepted international standards. Unfortunately, the insecurity of the security situation also hampers the ability of the United Nations to actively assist in the preparation of elections. The number of U.N. electoral experts has recently increased to 25 and will be added to a further reinforcement in December. Most of the electoral preparations are made by Iraqi authorities, who in return have gained recognition from the UN for their work. A strengthened role for the UN is, as I said, entirely dependent on the improvement of the security situation. It is therefore gratifying that a protective force for UN personnel in Iraq is about to be deployed using military personnel from Fiji, Georgia and the United States. The package of measures presented by the EU also includes proposals for contributions to the United Nations Protection Group, as well as further support for the preparation of elections, participation of electoral experts and enhanced political dialogue. The timing of the electoral preparations is ambitious, but according to the chairman of the Electoral Commission and the UN experts, preparations must be on track. This is impressive in a country without democratic traditions. The importance of these choices being credible can hardly be exaggerated. If the Iraqis succeed in developing the country against a stable and democratic rule of law, this could also have positive effects beyond the borders of the country. A stable and predictable Iraq is in the interests of the whole region. It is positive that so far most neighbouring countries have been involved in constructive cooperation on Iraq's development. This includes, inter alia: the objective of the conference currently held in Egypt. It is of great importance that Iraq's neighbouring country supports the efforts of Prime Minister Allawi's interim government and does not do anything that could help destabilise the situation in the region. It is the government's clear position that we must also support the Iraqis in their efforts to gain control and control in their own country. We must continue to give political support to the interim government and its work. I have assured my Iraqi colleague, Hoshyar Zebari, of this, among others. during my meeting with him in New York at the end of September. His main message to me was concentrated on the importance of making the elections in a fair and credible way. His eyes were fixed forward. The same must be ours. There is no doubt that our political support for Iraq is valued on the Iraqi side. This was most recently expressed in a letter dated 25 October this year from Prime Minister Allawi to Prime Minister Bondevik. The government will, among other things, meet Iraq's appeal to the UN to support the electoral preparations by paying 14 million as soon as possible. kr of transitional assistance to the United Nations, preferably for this purpose. Measures to support the construction of the Iraqi judiciary are a contribution to strengthening the democratisation of Iraqi society. It is Norway's clear position that justice in Iraq must be in accordance with international human rights and international criminal law. On this basis, we will be able to assess support for training in the Iraqi judiciary. As soon as the security situation allows, we will reopen our embassy in Baghdad. If we are to be able to provide effective economic, political and other support for Iraq, a Norwegian presence in the country will be necessary. Until then, we will strengthen our embassy in Amman, which will be side-accredited to Iraq. The precarious situation in Iraq poses a security threat to the lives and well-being of individual Iraqis. This is in itself reason enough to do what you can to improve the situation. But in addition, as I said, improved security is a prerequisite for the political development of Iraq and for economic reconstruction. The financial problems are formidable. After decades of war, mismanagement and oppression, the challenges are literally in line. At the same time, the standard of living for the even Iraqis has fallen dramatically. According to the World Food Programme, a quarter of the population is totally dependent on food to survive. In the economic sphere, however, there are certain points of light: The government has succeeded in establishing a stable national currency.Inflation is under control.The economic growth for 2004 is estimated by the International Monetary Fund to be significant, although we must not forget that the starting point for the calculations is distrustful. So some key framework conditions point in the right direction. Reconstruction needs are, as I said, enormous. And so are the costs. The need clearly exceeds the total US$33 billion pledged at the Madrid Conference in October 2003. At the same time, the country has a foreign debt that the International Monetary Fund is supposed to be worth 125 billion dollars. This foreign debt is not possible for Iraq to serve. It is therefore very important that Western countries and Russia, through the Paris Club, have agreed on up to 80 pst. ticks for Iraq. The agreement also provides a framework for the indebtedness of other creditors. These have greater claims on Iraq than the countries of the Paris Club. The needs are particularly high in the development of basic infrastructure in electricity supply, water and sewerage. Furthermore, the interim government has estimated that there is a need for about 1.6 million new dwellings. With 60 pst. by the population under 25 years of age, housing needs will be an increasing challenge in the future. If this challenge is not met satisfactorily, it will probably represent a source of dissatisfaction and social unrest. Iraq’s oil and gas industry accounts for more than 90 pst. the income of the country. In other words, it is essential to advance the upgrading of the Iraqi petroleum industry. It is therefore a point of light that despite sabotage operations and a worn-out infrastructure, production is back at about the same level as before the war, i.e. about 2.5 million barrels of oil a day. The Iraqi government — based on estimates from the International Monetary Fund — expects that it will be possible to increase production to around 3.5 million barrels per day in 2005. The importance of this for the reconstruction of the country says itself. Norway also has a role to play in the economic reconstruction of Iraq, like our contribution to political development. Norway’s total effort in Iraq for the period 2003 to 2006 is estimated to be up to 550 million. kr. The main emphasis of this is humanitarian aid, with a particularly wide-ranging effort in 2003. Transitional assistance and limited support through global business schemes amount to up to 40 million. kr annually. Humanitarian aid is an essential part of Norwegian efforts. Some examples of such Norwegian assistance are the efforts of Norwegian People's Aid, which operates democracy projects and mine clearance in Northern Iraq. Furthermore, the Church's Emergency Aid, Red Children, Red Cross and Tromsø Mining Damage Centre are among the organisations that have received support for projects in areas such as health, aid for refugees, water supply, sanitary conditions and mine clearance. Our transitional aid of $30 million. are channelled annually through the International Fund for Iraq of the United Nations and the World Bank. Among other things, there will be: support for the implementation of the forthcoming elections. In addition, funding is provided for business activities in Iraq. The Iraqi Interim Government has initiated cooperation with the Norwegian authorities in the field of petroleum. This enquiry is now being discussed between the Norwegian and Iraqi authorities. How can this happen, based on the oil and gas competence we possess, you can now look at it more closely. In the longer term, cooperation here can provide good opportunities for the Norwegian oil industry and increased trade relations between our two countries. I have pointed out earlier in the presentation that it would be natural to mention developments in other parts of the Middle East in connection with the discussion of developments in Iraq. With President Yassir Arafat's disappearance, an era is over. Together with Knesset's decision by Prime Minister Sharon's withdrawal plan, this has created a new situation. From the Israeli and Palestinian sides, we have registered a new willingness to contact them. From the Norwegian side, we have always stressed that the withdrawal from Gaza and four settlements on the West Bank must be coordinated with the Palestinian authorities. It is my hope that we can now lay the basis for a resumption of the peace process. With the presidential election in the United States behind us, it is now important that the American side engages more strongly in the work to find a solution to the conflict. In a phone call on 11 November, Prime Minister Bondevik invited President Bush to step up this commitment. We don't need a new peace plan. The Roadmap for Peace contains all the elements necessary for the implementation of the vision of a two-state solution. However, the Israeli withdrawal from Gaza and four settlements on the West Bank must be incorporated into this framework, making a first step on the road towards a Palestinian state. Now it is essential to ensure political stability in the Palestinian region. Arafat's successor must be chosen according to the applicable law. It will provide the new Palestinian leadership with the necessary legitimacy and support for the people. We have emphasized this to the Palestinian authorities. However, Israel has the key to whether a presidential election can be conducted at all. If a choice is to be held, candidates must be given the freedom of movement in the election campaign and it must be ensured that the voters reach the polls. Israel must refrain from military operations. We have promoted our views on these questions to Israel. A positive economic development in the Palestinian Territory following the planned withdrawal of Israel from Gaza and four settlements on the West Bank will be important. I have therefore, in my capacity as Chairman of the donor body AHLC, and in close cooperation with the so-called Quartet – the United Nations, the United States, Russia and the EU – taken the initiative of a meeting to identify what needs to be done to stabilise the Palestinian economy. Without an improvement in the economy, it will hardly be possible to strengthen the political processes. However, stabilisation of the Palestinian economy will require substantial concessions and measures from the Israeli side. Of course, the Palestinian authorities themselves bear a great responsibility to bring about positive political and economic developments in the future. The new Palestinian leadership must continue the reforms of its system of governance under the Roadmap to Peace. Most importantly, the Palestinian authorities are carrying out remaining reforms in the police and security sectors and are able to stop the Palestinian attacks on Israel and Israel. The international community must continue to support the Palestinians and provide them with the assistance they need to implement these measures. From the Norwegian side, we support the Palestinian reforms in a number of areas. A solution to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict could have positive ring-effects across the region. This also applies to developments in Iraq. By the Government, therefore, efforts to contribute to a solution to the Middle East conflict will be very central in the coming period. However, the management of the problems in Iraq cannot wait or be made conditional on a solution to other parts of the Middle East conflict. The challenges in Iraq are many, and they must be dealt with now. Most of them are unfortunately also heavy and long-lasting. We can only succeed through close cooperation between the international community and Iraqi authorities. Only through effective cooperation between key international actors can we achieve this. But the Iraqis themselves must take the lead. Internationally, the UN will have to take special responsibility for coordinating its efforts. Only the UN can give this work the necessary weight and legitimacy. However, it is also important to continue and strengthen the ongoing political dialogue on the Atlantic and between leading European countries. Here a positive basis was laid at the NATO Summit in Istanbul. From each side of the Atlantic we must seek a common understanding of the situation, and of what must be done to succeed in the reconstruction of Iraq. The role and contribution of Norway in Iraq must also be seen in the context of our other international efforts. We must contribute, but at the same time we must believe that we have decided that Afghanistan should be our main field of action in that part of the world. This is in line with the decisions taken by NATO and with the government's own priorities. The international community has everything to do with stabilising the new Iraq, creating a democratically legitimate system of governance and rebuilding it for the benefit of the Iraqi people. Norway should also contribute here.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-23.ana.ud2576e395	The Foreign Minister's statement will be the subject of a debate in Stortinget later, in particular at the Stortingen meeting on 30 November.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-23.ana.ud2576e407	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 451]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-23.ana.ud2576e421	The Council of Europe has become increasingly important since the collapse of communism in Eastern Europe. What has happened during these years has changed the composition of the Parliamentary Assembly, which now consists of 46 states, with over 800 million people. If we ignore the Indian National Assembly, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe is the democratic assembly representing most people. And the promotion of democracy and human rights is at the heart of the business. An overall committee sees it as important that our parliamentarians take an active part in this assembly. The Council of Europe has played a crucial role in socialising and integrating former Communist countries and dictatorships into European cooperation. On the one hand, becoming a member of the Council of Europe requires very specific standards for the development of democracy and human rights. It may take time, and there are several new Member States bordering on what is required to be a member. But we still see that it works. Another and perhaps so important side is that here, for example, leading Russian parliamentarians have to sit for hours and listen to sharp criticism of the Russian policy in Chechnya. It has undoubtedly had an impact on the positions in Moscow. I also believe that the exercise of policy in Turkey has been influenced by the fact that Turkish parliamentarians have been actively involved for years in the Council of Europe and have listened to debates and have in time taken over many of the values of the Council of Europe and made them their own. There is no doubt that the Council of Europe has had a major role to play in preparing for EU entry for the ten most recent EU members. As indicated in the 2003 Annual Report, many cases have been dealt with, including: the situation in Chechnya, which has been thoroughly addressed, the situation in Iraq and the relationship between the various European institutions, and in particular the relationship with the EU. Important value issues such as migration, asylum, trafficking in human beings and environmental issues have been addressed. There may be reason to consider how the follow-up to these cases is taking place. Very often, the conclusions just end up in a drawer. The Assembly is a kind of Idea Forum that offers suggestions to the Ministerial Committee. It turns out to be a very small proportion of the cases that are really followed up by the Ministerial Committee. Although the Norwegian Presidency of this Committee, this Presidency which was concluded on 10 November, is not covered by this Communication, it may be useful to highlight the fact that Norway has received a great deal of praise for its effective management of the Committee. Particular attention has been paid to Norway’s emphasis on developing closer cooperation between the OSCE and the Council of Europe. This cooperation has existed, especially in the case of observation of elections, but it is quite clear that it can be further developed. Furthermore, emphasis has been placed on the further promotion of human rights, reforms of the Court of Justice and further efforts by the Council of Europe in the area of peace and reconciliation, for which, unfortunately, there is still a great need in Europe.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-23.ana.ud2576e436	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[See page 451]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-23.ana.ud2576e450	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 451]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-23.ana.ud2576e464	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 451]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-23.ana.ud2576e478	I am not going to spend a long time discussing the advantages and disadvantages of using new technologies, especially the use of new technologies in the run-up to elections. Before the Storting can discuss, on a broad principle and not least on a practical basis, the possible extension of the use of new technology, it is fundamental that the Stortinget has a common, solid professional platform to discuss from, so that it becomes more than one at best qualified vision. The majority in the Committee respect the wish of the proposers to explore the possibilities open to modern technologies, including in the event of electoral campaigns. on the basis of a hypothesis that turnouts are increasing. However, the number of committees is, as I see it, quite as healthyly critical — in view of the peculiarities of elections to political bodies. The correctness of the choice result, the assurance of anonymity of the voters, the assurance of the system’s voting rights, the availability of the system to all user groups and its verification are essential technical and safety requirements. These are matters that need to be reviewed, which are discussed by both the Data Protection Agency, the Election Commission and the Vulnerability Committee, and where the answer is not necessarily that available technology meets the requirements that need to be met today. The number of committees does not consider it particularly useful or desirable to start testing electronic choices by, for example: secondary schools in the context of school choices or other, as the proposers wish. In addition to the fact that there is no representative group of subjects in the case, the majority also strongly doubt whether this might mean anything other than what has already been tried in school selection — and in 2003 not only tried but actually used in ordinary elections in selected municipalities. The Ministry has set up a working group to assess, on a broad basis, the appropriateness of holding electronic elections, including the system requirements required for such elections. The majority share the Ministry's justification and assessment of the need to await the work of this sample before considering, where appropriate, the implementation of electronic selection. The proposers point out that a number of tests on electronic choice have been carried out internationally, with the aim of increasing the availability of the electoral system. It is shown, among others: the development in the United States of electronic management and the use of new technologies in the context of choice. I'm not going to rule out that there's experience here, but we've had a good deal of experience that hasn't necessarily been positive. We will wait until these experiences have been dealt with with with the necessary professional background in the committee set up by the Ministry for the preparation of subsequent government and wholesale treatment. In this context, the Committee calls on the Ministry to also assess the financial impact of any requirement for the use of security-coded ballots. It's one of the jumping points that we've been made particularly aware of during the proceedings. I would also refer to the other observations of the majority and recommend that the proposal be annexed to the Minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-23.ana.ud2576e499	From the Progress Party, we want to adopt a somewhat more offensive position on this issue than the committee majority is on. In our opinion, the proposers have a number of good points, and propose that electronic voting be tested in a better way. We therefore believe it would be right to support the proposals made by the proposers. I believe that in the information and technology society we live in, it is fully possible to develop good enough and to ensure enough solutions to implement choices electronically. We know that big money transactions take place online, and that sensitive information is on the web. A number of issues requiring a high level of safety are currently being addressed by electronic means and via the Internet. We think it's fully possible to develop a system that also works in an electoral context. With this I present the suggestions on page 3 of the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-23.ana.ud2576e508	The representative, Henrik Rød, has taken up the suggestions he referred to. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[See page 451]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-23.ana.ud2576e524	First of all, I would like to commend the proposers for their genuine concern in various ways about how to ensure increased electoral participation and democracy – without them going into the trap of believing that there are simple shortcuts and magic that can immediately make voting more attractive. There is a need to look at the practical implementation of elections, but this cannot be overestimated in a democracy like ours, where it is not necessarily these conditions that alone can explain lower electoral participation. The inherent problem of democracy is that once you've had it for a while, a lot of people start to take it for granted – and don't necessarily reflect on how it would be without. At the same time, there is no concealment that there are many and cooperative reasons why the turnout has been declining in recent years. But the picture is not unique. The EU vote in 1994 showed that people will use their voting rights when they feel that there are important political issues being asked. In addition, the studies carried out in the 1999 elections also show that there were record numbers who were politically engaged – albeit not partisan. There is reason to stop and ask whether party policy as it is practised today, and – I would like to add for myself – whether the level reduction on parts of the media coverage of it can continue without an electoral participation that we cannot be familiar with. That’s a big debate – which I haven’t thought to go into here – but it’s problematic that unfortunately, more, a little tabloid said, seem to be happy as long as the TV works, and in 2004 lives in a world where politics and social life are shut down because it feels irrelevant. With regard to the proposal itself, the Committee, on the basis of the Ministry's response, believes that most of it is actually on the stairs. With regard to the call for municipalities to cooperate with county municipalities and universities/high schools, I am aware that the department of five regional conferences earlier on the new electoral law – where most municipalities and county councils were represented – made it clear orally that it should be considered that elections should be held there as well. The Committee is pleased that the Council of State announces that initiatives will be taken by the Council of State to further develop this. However, it is important that it is anchored locally. Although it is a big choice, it is not lucky to have new, central regulations now. In this setting, the Committee refers in particular to the Ministry's information campaign in the 2003 elections. In its opinion, the Committee considers that a wide range of instruments are being put in place to stimulate increased voting participation in future options. To this end, the main objective of the Ministry’s 2005 campaign must be to increase voters’ knowledge of when, where and how to vote. However, in addition to being a purely information campaign, the Committee sees it that, as far as it can be done, there is a need to focus on stimulating greater participation, not least among younger voters. It has been shown that once you have voted once, it will be easier to vote again. Younger voters are therefore a group to which it should be focused. I would also refer to the Committee's comments and recommend that the proposal be annexed to the Minutes. I also recommend that the Department follow up on what the Committee uses in the final remarks.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-23.ana.ud2576e543	There is no doubt that there are other measures than purely technical ones that are the most important ones that politicians can put in place to ensure increased electoral participation. But at the same time, voting is so central to our democracy that there is no reason not to implement all the measures we actually have the opportunity to take. This must, of course, be weighed against the stability of the electoral process on a case-by-case basis. When we see, for example: in relation to the elections in the autumn of 2003, that is close to 90 pst. in a preliminary study, they replied that they would certainly vote in the election, while the actual turnout was below 60 p.m., it shows in our view that there are still things to do in relation to the practical implementation. And looking at a 2001 election survey, stated 40 pst. practical reasons for sitting at home. Actually, it's encouraging that most of the voters, more than what is expressed in each election, after all, have a sincere desire to participate in democracy by voting. At the same time, we have a great responsibility to facilitate that they actually get to do this, even though, as I said, things other than availability that are probably of general importance to the electoral process. I agree with the rapporteur that it is important to stress that there are different forms of involvement. It's not that the turnout is the only clue we have on political engagement in our society. But once again, there's no reason not to do everything we can, just because this is a complex problem. We in SV are very pleased that the Council of State shows the willingness to continue to follow-up in relation to prior voting both at universities, colleges, state institutions and even secondary schools. We think it's possible to get even better upholstery from the first-time voters if you just as well accommodate them in the places they are, as you might say. have been done in institutions with other age groups. In addition, the majority of the Committee, which is a minority in the Chamber – the Working Party and SV – will increase the availability of resources in relation to increasing the number of voting places, as this is now within the framework. If we from Stortinget want further action in these areas, it is necessary to assess whether the framework should be increased accordingly. The majority, which is a minority in the hall, address in particular the issue of costs for municipalities to facilitate voting for people other than their own, e.g. at universities and higher education institutions, and would really like an assessment of their suitability for inclusion in the framework, as it is based on their own citizens. We note that in this round, there is a majority in favour of a clear call from this Chamber and from the Council of State to state institutions, to the county councils, to facilitate even better electoral implementation and prior voting in this election, and we hope that we will get results from it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-23.ana.ud2576e562	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox [[See page 452]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-23.ana.ud2576e576	One of the biggest tasks is to check whether government and administration follow the decisions taken by the Storting. The Civil Ombudsman is the extended arm of the Stortinget and the practical exercise of parts of this control. But not only that: the Civil Ombudsman is the people's lawyer, and he has the entire public administration as a working area. The Ombudsman therefore has a very important role to play. I would like to stress that it is important for the administration to follow up the decisions or recommendations made or made by the Ombudsman. It is important in relation to trust in government, democracy and the legal certainty of individuals. It is assumed that the administration will both prioritize and devote considerable work to the Ombudsman’s enquiries. The Committee is pleased with the job done by the Civil Ombudsman. It is therefore a unanimous committee that supports the setting of the annual report. The annual report shows that the Ombudsman conducts general investigations in parts of the administration, in the light of individual cases. The Committee considers this to be an important work. I would like to address a number of areas in which the Ombudsman and the Committee have also been concerned. The first is the freedom of expression of employees. This is an area where a collective committee was concerned when the Stortinget dealt with the Constitution § 100 on freedom of expression. The fact that employees have opportunities to speak in public spaces, after leaving the service, is an important prerequisite for decision-makers to gain knowledge of the situation of public institutions. Employees shall have a right and an obligation to report on critical matters if they are not rectified after being reported internally. But it's not like that today. ‘All the more often teachers, nurses, child-care workers and doctors were gambled. Some of them so effectively that they are threatened with redundancies if they talk about critical matters.» This is what editor Harald Stanghelle writes in the evening post. The Committee has noted that the cases dealt with by the Civil Service Ombudsman for the purpose of criminal proceedings are too few to provide a basis for a general characterisation of the use of the administrative penalty in the public administration. The Civil Ombudsman has informed the Committee that, in view of the ongoing legislative work on new labour law and new civil servants’ laws, he will assess the need to launch a broader analysis of responses to public employees who express themselves. The Committee is pleased with this. Then there will be a report – after the committee has finished setting. It shows how important it is for one to follow closely in this area. The report «Projekt Munnkurv», prepared by the Arbeitsforskningsinstitutt för Norsk Nursing Association, shows that a whole 43 pst. by the sick nurses, they fear represals if they indicate critical facts, internal or external alerts. In other words, freedom of expression has poor health conditions. ‘Too many people have learned that the use of freedom of expression is punishable,’ says research director Aslaug Hetle, who supports the report ‘Projekt Munnkuv’. It is clear that there is a type of oral tissue that can harm patients. It is therefore important that responsible state councils follow up in the governance dialogue. But it also underlines the importance of the Civil Ombudsman’s being involved in this field. Another area addressed by the Civil Ombudsman, which the Committee has commented on, is the public meeting in municipalities and county municipalities. Publicity and transparency are an important prerequisite for a living local democracy — the ability for people to engage in debate and mobilise in important decisions relating to their own community or their own everyday lives. The Ombudsman has pointed out that several municipalities have established a so-called committee model, which only has the right to vote for local authorities and county councils. This has meant that some municipalities, even as a general rule, have decided to close the committee meetings. The Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs has, until recently, accepted this, rightly stating that a person should seek to obtain as much transparency as possible. The Ombudsman states that both the wording of the municipal law and the purpose of open doors mean that there should be no distinction between municipalities that have a main selection model and those that have a committee model. Decisions taken by the County of Oslo and Akershus that closed doors are contrary to the municipal law underline this. The Committee therefore asks the Ministry to take this into account in its work on amendments to the Local Government Act. The Ombudsman has also examined the length of proceedings at the Directorate for Foreign Affairs. Long-term complaints increased in 2003. It is not difficult to understand the frustrations many would have if they had to wait for answers from the UDI, or if the information about delays, which may have their reasons, is not good enough. The Committee assumes that the Department will take action if the UDI has difficulties in dealing with and notifying of delays in proceedings within the time limits imposed. The Committee expects there to be a clear improvement and a reduction in the time frame for the future. At the same time, the Committee stresses that the requirement of a time limit must always be balanced against the legal certainty of individuals. Information gathering may take time, and it is important that this is done in a way that ensures responsible processing and thus legal certainty. The Committee agrees with the Civil Ombudsman that the UDI develops internal guidelines in order to ensure uniform treatment of anonymous tips in foreign affairs. The Ombudsman says in the Annual Report that he will follow developments in the UDI in the future, and this supports the Committee. I would also refer to the Committee's comments.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-23.ana.ud2576e611	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight. [[See page 452]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-23.ana.ud2576e625	The Riksaudition’s tasks may be divided into accounting audit, administrative audit and company control. An overarching objective for all the National Audit Office's tasks is to assist in the payment of revenue by the State as foreseen. One shall also verify that the State's funds and values are used and managed in an economically defenceable manner and in accordance with its decisions and intentions. In Document No: 2 for 2003–2004 points out, among others: recent changes in the administration. Several municipal tasks have been state games. The county sector responsibility in the area of child protection and family protection is e.g. transferred to the State on 1 January 2004. The national audit took over the audit responsibility for these institutions at the same time. Such changes in the organisation of public Norway also lead to changes in the control of government by the National Audit Office. Developments are in the direction of a clearer distinction between policy, management and service provision. The new system with the possibility of postponing competition by municipal audit also increases the tasks of the National Audit Office. ICT developments also create challenges for the ethos. But I am pleased that measures are now being implemented to meet the challenges posed by technical progress. On behalf of the Christian People's Party, I will give the National Auditor's Honor for a good annual report. The majority expect the Riksaudition to work independently and as a competent organisation, and to act with caution and objectivity. I experience it so that the Riksrevision fills the measurements that are set for the work. I have also noticed that the annual report highlights the point of communicating the reports in light language, as the Committee has pointed out earlier. In 2003, the National Audit Office had a framework of 465 annual works. This is a significant staff. One must be able to conclude that the Riksrevision has a very high level of expertise. It is a wish that the Storting should be able to take even greater advantage of this knowledge than it is today. I would like to ask the Riksrevision in its management reports to focus more on the impact that decision-making has had on citizens. As a trust option for the inhabitants, I often ask myself: have the set targets been achieved through the administration's implementation of the decision-making process? The answer to this, I believe, is that the Riksrevision has the possibility of giving the Storting more than what appears in the management reports, as they are being designed today. I also think it would be useful for the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs to have representatives from the National Audit Office present their management reports to the Committee. We would then have been able to have a dialogue on the report. I would like to consider initiating such a practice. Finally, I will again praise the National Audit Office for the work carried out in 2003. As a member of the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee, I look forward to new and rich audit reports from the Riksrevision.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-23.ana.ud2576e640	There are exciting thoughts the representative Auchan presents here. He says that he will now take the initiative to introduce such a practice, i.e. that the National Audit Office gets that kind of task in its annual reports. We don't reject this in any way, but we'd like to see what Aukan comes with in the next round, so we can take a final position on it then.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-23.ana.ud2576e645	If the President heard correctly, the representative said he would consider taking the initiative. I guess that means he's in the think box for now. It's a popular place to stay. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox [[See page 452]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-23.ana.ud2576e661	Norway is a significant fishing nation and, as a coastal state, has a sovereign right to use its resources within the economic zone of Norway. However, like most other coastal states, we share several of the important fish stocks with other countries and are therefore dependent on cooperation in the regulation and protection of stocks. As rapporteur of the case, I note that there is a unanimous vote by the Food and Agriculture Committee on the fisheries agreements concluded by Norway with other countries for 2004 and fishing for the agreements in 2002 and 2003. It is important for us to be able to have sustainable management, that there is a basis for an internationally agreed fisheries and resource management. The taxation of the various stocks must be ensured through a proper tax regime. Technical regulatory measures and an active policy on tax patterns and discards of fish are key elements of Norwegian resource management. Technical measures, control measures and agreements are important, but this is obviously not sufficient. The Committee points out that all measures that can accompany and ensure sustainable populations must be an important part of the international agreements and discussions with other fishing nations held by Norway. Only when we have international agreement on the taxation of important fish stocks can we imagine sustainable fishing that will ensure income, employment and housing for generations to come. With these words, I would recommend the unanimous vote of the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-23.ana.ud2576e674	I fully agree with the Industry Committee that international cooperation and agreed international regimes are of crucial importance in achieving more sustainable management of shared fish stocks. There is also something with which the Government gives high priority in its dealings with the countries with which we manage the resources. In addition to ensuring the sustainable management of the stocks concerned, it is also important to ensure that Norwegian fishermen receive their legitimate share of those stocks. Norway's principal starting point in all negotiations we conduct with other countries on the distribution of pelagic stocks is the principle of zoning. At the same time, we must recognise that our counterparties do not always share this starting point, or that they are not necessarily as consistent as we are with regard to the principles underlying such negotiations. This is one of the main reasons why the parties have not yet reached a final international agreement on the management of coal, nor have we agreed in 2004 on an agreement for the management of Norwegian herring. According to the principle of zoning, Norway would have had a share of 88 pst. of the NVG seal quota, whereas under the five-party agreement it is only 57 pst. Both the Faeroe Islands and the EU have shown an understanding of Norway’s requirements, while Iceland has been much more negative in order for zone proximity to be reflected in the distribution. I'm very sorry about that. If you had accepted zone access in all contexts, it would have been obvious that Norway should have had a larger share. Until now, Norway has pursued a policy where we have respected our 57 pst share without having such an agreement, but the pressure from the industry is significant for Norway to take the share of the quota that other countries are unable to catch because they do not have herring in their respective zones. In the negotiations on coal, we have also been based on the principle of zone ownership, although this will give us a lower share than what we have traditionally fished out of this stock. Moreover, in the negotiations, in the spirit of cooperation and compromise, we have been willing to make a strong commitment to our original demands, in order to reach a final agreement, not least on the grounds of having responsible and sustainable management with other countries. The main reason why we have not achieved goals in these negotiations is that the EU, as the second-largest claimant, has not yet been conscious of its responsibility – I would say in contrast to Norway, which in the negotiations on NVG fires was willing to pay a very high price to get responsible management of this stock, referred to that we should have had 88 pst. Of the herring, we have 57 pst, and we have a claim for 70 pst, but we are willing to negotiate. In the case of mackerel, Norway has an agreement with the EU and the Faeroe Islands on the management of this stock. According to the agreement, Norway has a share of approx. 30 pst. of the mackerel. The Norwegian industry, however, considers that according to the principle of belonging to the zone, Norway should have had close to 50 pst. Once again, we see that for the third species, the principle of zoning has not been ruled out in a legitimate way. We have therefore, in cooperation with the EU and the Faeroe Islands, set up a research collaboration to determine the zone of belonging of the mackerel. It will not be appropriate to reopen the agreement until this research has been completed. We do it again in the spirit of the compromise and to show that we do not allow irresponsible fishing, but that distribution is a central requirement also in the management context. At the same time, it is important to note that for the vast majority of North-East Atlantic populations, we have administrative regimes in place and that we have good and constructive administrative cooperation with the countries concerned. Administrative cooperation with both Russia and the EU really works very well. Together with Russia, we adopted, as we know, long-term management plans for cod and hake in the Barents Sea two years ago, and these plans take into account both biologically sound management and stability and predictability of the fishing industry in Norway and Russia. During the course of the year’s negotiations, the cod management plan was revised to take account of situations where the broodstock is below the so-called commodity level. The previous product level for cod is set at 460000 tonnes. When the population is at or above this level, it is less than 10 pst. the probability that it will come down to a level where the recruitment can start to fail. If the population were to fall below this level, we now agree with Russia on a mechanism that would ensure a drastic reduction in the output, if necessary. In comparison, however, it has to be pointed out that in 2004 the spawning stock is estimated to be 851000 tonnes, i.e. 85 pst. above the level of commodity. In other words, we are far from being in a situation where special measures are needed, and it illustrates in a good way that a cod is not a cod. The Baltic Sea, the North Sea and the Barents Sea must be distinguished. In the Barents Sea and in the North Atlantic, the situation of cod is good. With the latest change, we have set up an administrative regime for Norwegian Arctic cod that provides even greater security for the future and is in full compliance with the requirements of the International Council for the Exploration of the Sea to sustainable resource management. Together with the EU, we are in a process of revising several of the current management plans for North Sea bottom fish, where, in particular, the cod population is in a very poor condition. At the same time, it cannot be underestimated that we are still facing significant challenges in relation to Russia and the EU in terms of fisheries control, and the Committee is also involved in this. The Committee says that we are facing significant challenges in the transshipment of fish in the Barents Sea, with subsequent unregistered landings in third countries. I have also put this on the agenda for Russia, and we have called for effective action. I am pleased that, in November of this year, Norway and Russia adopted several control measures during the year's negotiations in Ålesund, which aim to address the trans-shipment problem in the northern regions. In concrete terms, we adopted the following: Fishing vessels shall be required to report within 24 hours before transhipment, on time, location and species, etc. related to the transhipment. The receiving vessel shall report on the transhipment no later than one hour after the transhipment, and within 24 hours before the landing, on where it is to be landed.Vehicles receiving catch at sea are subject to satellite tracking obligations in line with fishing vessels.Vehicles flying the so-called convenience flags, i.e. vessels not flying the flag of NEAFC, the North-East Atlantic Fisheries Commission, or flags not having the status of NEAFC co-operative country shall not be allowed to re-load the fishing vessel of the Parties, i.e. Norwegian and Russian vessels.Norway and Russia shall also seek the full exchange of information on quotas, satellite tracking and transhipment data.Norway and Russia agree to intensify practices related to the licensing of vessels for fishing in the respective zones in cases where vessels have been deprived or detained by control authorities. These measures strongly underline that both the Russian and Norwegian authorities will put this problem to life, and we also agree that dialogue with third countries should be strengthened in order to obtain more complete information on landings from Norwegian and Russian vessels. It is clear that a significant part to get this under control is that we have port state control, and that we have control of what is landed in ports. It is now necessary for both parties to follow up on these measures in practice. It will require a much greater degree of openness and cooperation from the Russian side than we have experienced so far. But the Russian authorities have assured us that this openness and this willingness to cooperate is present, and we have also experienced that in a practical way. Finally, it is also clear from the EU that effective fisheries control is of fundamental importance for sustainable resource management. A significant part of the catch taken in the north and mentioned in these control measures is landed in EU ports. We are therefore in a process with the EU to improve fisheries control in the North Sea, among others. through enhanced focus on landing control and through increased exchange of inspectors. We also have a positive dialogue with the EU with a view to improving the control of landings in EU countries by, among other things, as I said, fish from the Barents Sea. However, we must be prepared that these processes too may take some time, but we are trying to keep a high political pressure on our partners in the EU. The general impression is that we are moving in the right direction in terms of fisheries control, both in relation to Russia, in relation to the EU and in relation to combating illegal and unregistered fishing in general.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-23.ana.ud2576e732	I would like to take this opportunity to give my Minister of Fisheries full support in relation to the demands he has made, under which he bases the principle of zone ownership on the allocation and management of pelagic fish. It is a principle that should be followed in all respects, and it is particularly important that this should be followed even if, as the Minister for Fisheries says, in some cases it may also be negative in the distribution we have had with other nations. The implementation of the principle is essential, and research and stock control will determine the level and distribution of countries between countries in retrospect. I fully agree with the views expressed by the Council of State, and I would like to say from this chair that the Council of State at least has the full support of the Centre Party, and I count on the full support of the Stortinge to meet the demands of the Minister of Fisheries.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-23.ana.ud2576e741	Several have not asked for the floor in Case No. 10th@item: inlistbox [[See page 452]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-23.ana.ud2576e756	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 452]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-23.ana.ud2576e770	At the request of the Economic and Social Committee, the President will propose that only three lines of reply be given after submission by the Council of State. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-23.ana.ud2576e775	We politicians like to pick up images from the sports arena. As soon as the meeting goes today, it gets a special topicality. If we choose to compare the establishment of an enterprise with a stafat, it is that research is one stage, so seed is one stage, venture is one stage, and then we have the operating phase of the enterprise, or flowering time, if we can call it that. It is important that we contribute to making exchange zones more flexible and that there are good players at the different stages. But in such a sport as stafat it is also important to have an arena. Then I choose to compare SIVA with the arena builder. SIVA has a primary responsibility for property and for building good and networking between companies. SIVA is also a member of this staff to some extent, as SIVA disposes of seed and venture funds. There is a clear majority in the committee that wants it to do so in the future as well, and I quote from the committee comments: ‘The majority will support the continuation of SIVA’s ownership of seeds and ventures, but will ask the Ministry to further assess the future role of SIVA in these areas in the 2006 budget, inter alia. in relation to the other instrument.’;» The SIVA has contributed an improved equity through the budget proposal and the additionalproposal, as central bank loans have been converted into equity. The message we are dealing with today is as I see it, a preliminary finalisation of a thorough review that we have had of the instrument. Through the treatment in Stortinget, we have established Innovation Norway, which is an association of four previously independent parts of the instrument. We've set up a district seed fund. We're getting a regional seed fund in the four university cities before Christmas, and we have an increased commitment to research. We also get these TTOs, which is an abbreviation for the English words 'technology transfer office'. If we want to be among the most innovative nations to achieve our goals, it is important that we have an ongoing debate and an adaptation of the innovation systems. We have had close and good cooperation within the Committee in the examination of the communication on the future role of SIVA, and the Committee promotes an overall view that St.meld. No 46 for 2003-2004 is annexed to the Protocol. I use the opportunity to thank the others in the Committee for good cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-23.ana.ud2576e800	The instrument in Norway is composed of several elements. Innovation Norway is treated for approx. A year ago here in Stortinget. Now the trip has come to SIVA, which is another and very important tool for the economic development of our country. Over the years it has existed, SIVA has helped to create exciting environments for economic development and research. The research parks that have been added to exciting environments have excellent power to stimulate their environment. I myself, as Akershus' representative, had the pleasure of visiting the three people in Akershus, namely the Biopark in Ås, Campus Kjeller in Skedsmo and IT Fornebu in Bærum. The knowledge parks are an equally exciting concept, where the aim is to make better use of knowledge production, education and research environments, precisely what we should strengthen even more here in Norway. Putting together knowledge and business skills into environments that provide the basis for innovation and increased value creation is forward-looking. The 15 knowledge parks are scattered throughout the country and have an impact on regional business. Then it's the commercial gardens. Only the word ‘nutritional gardens’ gives a positive association. Here it is to be created and grown. In the 34 business areas around the country, there is room to create forward-looking and competitive businesses that need in-flight fertilisation in the form of being in an environment below the same ceiling as others in the same situation. Here they can gain experience from each other and take advantage of knowledge and help one can get from others, both the tool and colleagues. To the incubators they can come who have a good idea, but who lack office, PC, phone, etc. There are 18 places in the country, and they are often linked to the research parks or knowledge parks, places where they can get inspiration and help to realize them. But for all of this, money is needed. Therefore, SIVA has also found that in order to access risk capital in order to reach these environments and start-ups around the country, SIVA has, over several years, helped to establish regionally based investment companies of the type venture fund or seed capital. This has proved to be successful, which we were confirmed during the hearing and not least during the work on this big message we are now processing. We have received many enquiries. I am therefore pleased that the big group of the Right and Big Group of the Christian People's Party understood what the Government had not understood, namely that SIVA's involvement in these investment companies was an important part of the SIVA's work. It is not necessary to shear a bird flying as well as SIVA does. There is a lot of discussion about seed funds at the moment, especially about the size and geographical extent of the funds. The SIVA funds are engaged in, have been shown to capture just what many lack in the other regional funds: the physical and cultural proximity between the investor and the enterprise. It gives increased activity and stability and better results when the distance between the small businesses, who need money, and those who have the money, is short. The government says: ‘Norway shall be one of the world’s most innovative countries in which businesses and people with progressive creativity have good opportunities to develop profitable activities. Our enterprises shall be internationally competitive.» We agree. It's a good ambition and a good goal, but for this we need a good tool. Innovation Norway is on track after almost one year of operation. Today, we are treating SIVA and we are going to make SIVA an even better tool than it is today, if possible. But until that happens, the economic framework is needed, and it doesn't give the Government SIVA, in the opinion of the Workers' Party. The proposed capital injection will not provide SIVA with the flexibility and response capacity that businesses expect. Therefore, in its alternative budget, the Labour Party has proposed that the conversion of the central bank loan into equity should be taken into account in the 2005 government budget and not over three years, as proposed by the Government, and that the loan framework should remain at EUR 970 million. kr, as it is now attached to the statutes. But we can see that we are not getting a majority in our views during the budgetary procedure this year. The government gets a majority for itself, and that's sad, because SIVA should have had a much better financial framework than they have now.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-23.ana.ud2576e827	SIVA has had important tasks in the public sector. It has contributed through its innovation network to the establishment of industrial parks, research and knowledge parks, incubators, business areas and seed and venture companies, i.e. a wide range of tools and areas to work on. An infrastructure for innovation has been developed across the whole country. Ever since the ownership of SIVA was transferred from the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs to the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade, clarifications have been awaited as to its role. The notification contains important guidance on the tasks to be performed by the undertaking in selected areas. The Government believes that the SIVA should continue to be an independent body, which will continue to work in the fields of property and innovation and in close cooperation with other parts of the instrument. The Progress Party provides the Ministry with support in the field of SIVA as an independent company and to provide facilitating ownership and networks for innovation. The notification gives a positive indication of the enterprise as a tool and organisation of the innovation network in Norway. A lot has been achieved here through an commitment both that develops and co-owners in the various innovation companies. This has also resulted in participation from approx. 1000 co-owners of different categories, ranging from private and institutional investors to universities, research and development and financial institutions and industrial enterprises. The SIVA network is about 65 innovation environments across the country. 1500 enterprises are linked to the environment, with almost 200 enterprises per year. The Progress Party considers that the role of SIVA in the development of innovation systems remains important. Therefore, SIVA should be equipped to do a job of further development, upgrading and improving the efficiency of innovation systems. We are also concerned that SIVA should have an involvement in the property field but avoid entering the market in direct competition with private operators. Through its infrastructure participation, SIVA facilitates both foreign establishments in Norway and Norwegian establishments outside. By investing in attractive and competitive physical infrastructure at home, a number of foreign enterprises have established themselves in Norway. This not only brings about value creation and jobs, but also a number of investments from abroad in research-based establishments around the innovation network. International industrial competences and capital are being drawn into our country's industrial innovation. With regard to SIVA’s involvement in business parks abroad, there was an overall committee in the treatment of the instrument proposition in order to complete the engagement in the business park in the Baltic region, but the Committee was positive in continuing its work in North-West Russia. We believe that there is a need for more offensive investment in the northern regions, and that SIVA should have a network exposure and an infrastructure role in which the Murmansk industrial garden is also involved. During its visit to this area on 8 and 9 September, the Economic and Social Committee took note of the fact that the northern regions are among the most interesting in the world in terms of oil, gas and fish resources. Here, there are considerable opportunities for Norwegian enterprises if conditions are also addressed by the Norwegian authorities. Of course, financial support for SIVA’s international involvement in Norwegian business start-ups must be a prerequisite, not for a passive relocation, but for assistance to organizations for organisation. It must be a prerequisite that enterprises continue to have their main base in Norway, but that assistance contributes to overall strengthening and development. A review of SIVA’s foreign activities some time ago has not revealed negative effects of SIVA’s foreign activities on Norway. According to the enterprises that have established themselves in SIVA's commercial parks outside, the economic and market realities for them have been such that the output built-up would not have been able to continue here at home. What's important to achieve is an commitment that can give a business environment that can give ring-fence on both sides of the border. There are possibilities here. A study on Danish outsourcing offers significant ring-effects. Outsourcing to low-wage countries is becoming a success. Many Danish industrial enterprises outsource tasks to low-wage countries, such as East European countries and China. This does not mean less, but greater production in Denmark, because Danish companies are becoming more competitive. These are experiences that can benefit from a Norwegian bet in the northern regions. As regards the Government’s assessment of whether SIVA is going out of seed and venture activities, we have reached a different conclusion. It is good that we have added seed and venture funds to Innovation Norway and Argentum, but we need more environments. So we don't want to cut this tool off from SIVA's portfolio of instruments. SIVA must have room to continue this work by developing seed and venture companies around Norway as a joint owner. A majority of the Committee endorses this view. Nor will it conflict with previous decisions in the United Kingdom relating to Innovation Norway and Argentum Fund investment. If SIVA is forced to get rid of its seed and venture exposures, as the message adds up, it will also be a bad store. Selling small individual shares in seed and venture funds will easily be the pure gift sale. Moreover, it would be by SIVA and the State to fail those co-investors who have entered these funds in confidence that SIVA will be as predictable and long-term as they are themselves. In particular, in a situation where, in our view, there is too little activity in seed and venture in Norway, SIVA has continued to play a role by facilitating private business investment.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-23.ana.ud2576e848	Yesterday I attended an exciting meeting in Trondheim. Centres for Entrepreneurship had invited me to tell you a little about what they're working on. I have the impression that what's going on for us to succeed in Norwegian business, that's the connection between our strong educational environments, universities and colleges, and business is a kind of connection that many of us have talked about for many years that we should have had, but that we've missed. I have the impression that this is now getting loose. Things that have come from the government, things that have come under pressure from there, and also from the marine environment, now make it clear that we need to have a completely different connection between the heavy university environments and the higher education environments on the one hand and the business world on the other. Here I think SIVA will have a bigger role to play in the future than they've had, because they have a network that specifically brings together a lot of entrepreneurs who are in a start-up phase when they're going to set up a business. I think we need a link between education and research environments and business at all stages, but not least at an early stage when you're working on establishing yourself. Therefore, I believe that what SIVA needs to give priority to the future is to help, so that this connection becomes as good as possible at all, and that the actors inside the business and knowledge parks, etc., are given the opportunity to participate in the expertise that exists. We in SV are also pleased that SIVA will be strengthened out of this treatment. In connection with the treatment of the instrument notification, we assessed whether we should merge SIVA and Innovation Norway. It was not done because many thought it was an advantage to have two environments. But I want to stress that what we said at the time is important, that we still have to work with a common user front. Business needs one door. The business community has been busy with a lot of other things, so they should not have to jump between the different actors in the tool. Swallow if we operate with a heavy player named Innovation Norway, and another heavy player, called SIVA, it is important that they are coordinated through the user front of Innovation Norway, and that those from the industry that meets there also get the information that is natural for them to get. We now see that the Research Council is moving out part of its positions. We also hope that when SIVA gets some more resources, they will do the same, so that the business community will be satisfied that they have an outdoor policy to deal with. The representative Grethe Fossli said that SIVA was a fresh bird that flew well. I can agree with that. SIVA flies well, but SIVA has had a little too little to fly with. I have to say that once we have dealt with this matter, I have had problems getting an economic overview of what is the state of SIVA, and what they really need for money in the future. We have also received an additional message from the Government that shows that there is also uncertainty about what the need for equity is, and what the need for loan capital in SIVA is. We see that more money is now being spent in both areas, and we think that is good. But we believe that the Government must pay attention to SIVA in the future, so that they may come back to the Storting with proposals for new appropriations, if it is necessary for this bird to fly so well that it can maintain the network it has, and be able to meet new needs when they appear in the future. So I'd like to say a little bit about this foreign investment. We've discussed that before. The committee was looking at the business garden in Murmansk, and that's what we thought was interesting. We support continuing the work in Murmansk for several reasons. First of all, it has just started, and it looks like both Russian and Norwegian businesses benefit greatly from it. In addition, Russia is one of our close neighbours, who needs the help that Norway can provide by providing them with expertise through the Murmansk Business Centre. But we want to warn against going on with that thinking and establishing business environments abroad. We believe that we need to use SIVA's scarce resources to try to establish business and the kind of activity here on the mountain, so that we can help the business that's at home. One might be tempted to say that one should perhaps establish oneself there as business will be, but then it can easily be that we end up both in China and in India in the long term, where we then provide business premises for business because they seem to be interesting to establish themselves there. It shall not be SIVA's task, in the SV's opinion. At the end of the day, we hope that SIVA has now received the muscles that are needed to enable them to work well, and that they will give priority to research and education institutions and help connect to the business world.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-23.ana.ud2576e865	Norway shall be one of the world’s most innovative countries, where businesses and people with progressive and creative potential have good potential to develop profitable activities and be internationally competitive. This is the Government's goal, which appears in the message. Very much is good for business in Norway today. We have marked positive results from a tight fiscal policy and a record low interest rate. But we also need selective measures for nutrition and district policy, and here, SIVA is one of several very important measures. The Christian People's Party is pleased that the entire Committee welcomes the Government's proposal to continue SIVA as a self-employed enterprise with a focus on facilitating ownership of the innovation network. It is great that the entire committee agrees with the Ministry that SIVA should have two main fields of activity, ownership and innovation. This is due to the fact that equity investment provides a physical infrastructure for innovation and also makes it possible to finance it. It's a very broad deal in the committee, looks at the important challenges for SIVA, when this setting is being addressed today, and it's joyous. Several places where the Committee has been travelling see a concrete way in which SIVA can play an important role in the creation of value and employment of the private sector in the various regions. As the representative of Inge Ryan was concerned: during the visit of the Committee in Murmansk, he saw how Norwegian competence could be involved and contribute to the creation of jobs and development in the Murmansk area. It was very exciting. SIVA has approx. 1 000 co-owners divided by the approximately 1 000 co-owners. 70 innovation arenas that SIVA participates in around the country. There's a lot of them. I'm glad that there's a deal about the meaning that SIVA will have in the future, and that we can stop and be in charge of the important strategy for SIVA. I see that in some districts it is difficult to get investment in infrastructure, because it does not have the same profitability as in more central areas. By being involved in and facilitating innovation and development where there are many more opportunities to create and develop jobs where one sees that there is a lot of creativity and new development. It's just about helping to make things right, and one at a time can get a lot more innovation and value creation.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-23.ana.ud2576e880	It is particularly positive that it is a unanimous committee that endorses the scope of the SIVA and that this should be both property and innovation. SIVA has played and plays a significant role as an industrial policy actor, with a special regional policy focus. A device of the business-oriented instrument towards a greater focus on innovation is important, and the transformation that SIVA has undergone in this way in recent years is highly affordable. Having gone from being a purely property company for some years back to having such a large focus on innovation and not least contributing as much to the development of regional value creation environments as SIVA has done in recent years has been successful and is particularly important for the development of good regional and district-oriented business clusters. It makes sense, in the opinion of the Centre Party, to continue the SIVA as an independent entity. However, in order for SIVA to succeed in its further work, it is essential that SIVA be given a sufficient financial base to do a good and forward-looking job. In my opinion, unfortunately, the Government does not follow up well enough on this point, and it is also at the point where the Committee separates layers. One of the areas where, in my opinion, the SIVA has succeeded is participation in the commercial gardens. It is approaching a critical point for the first establishment, which has soon existed for five years, where it will be essential for SIVA to be able to follow a part of it further, and not least that SIVA should also be given the opportunity to invest in new business areas as well as in new concepts. The investment undertaken by SIVA in the field of business environments provides the opportunity for networking between companies. It provides for co-location, cost sharing and, in particular, for building professional and social environments within the business environments, which are valuable in many of these relatively underprivileged areas in which the business environments are established. There must be no doubt that, with the economic foundation that the majority now rely on, SIVA will in the future not have enough muscle to do the job that SIVA is actually capable of. There is no evidence of particularly thorough work on the part of the Government when, in the middle of the treatment of the SIVA gross domestic product, it appears necessary to make an additional proposition with the introduction of a new 90 million. kr in equity. This suggests that the department has not fully understood the needs of SIVA. Unfortunately, this also indicates that one has not been able to establish a long-term plan for SIVA's capital needs that strengthens SIVA in the way that the Storting should now have done. The centre party therefore considers that it is necessary to add SIVA 100 million. kr in equity in addition to the Government’s proposal. We also believe that it is also necessary to maintain the loan framework at today's level. It will much more enable SIVA to be forward-looking and offensive in the way it has been so far.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-23.ana.ud2576e895	SIVA has evolved from being a property company to becoming a company focused on the innovation and development of regional value creation environments. Through this, SIVA has found its own role among the public sector actors. SIVA has been a creative initiator and, through its combination of instruments, has contributed to the development of important environments for innovation and commercialisation of research results. Those who have visited some of these different bodies set up by the SIVA also know that they connect important players in the innovation market. There are 10 research parks, 15 knowledge parks, 34 business farms and 18 incubators. What often happens when there are some Petter Smarts who are driving and developing something new is that they are sitting on their own ceiling and developing this. What SIVA has done is to get different entrepreneurs and Petter Smarts to sit in the same incubator or in the same business park, so you can have a dialogue, that you can develop each other and lift each other up. There are also actors and experts who are good and who have experience in providing the necessary advice for many innovators to succeed. This year we are expected to get more than 20,000 new businesses in Norway, but we can get more. In this context, SIVA has played an important role. They play an important role and will play an important role in the future. Therefore, I am pleased that there is a consensus that SIVA should continue as an independent enterprise, including: focusing on facilitating ownership of the innovation network. I have also noticed that the Business Committee points out that the SIVA Seed and Venture Fund is a natural part of the organisational ownership of the innovation network that SIVA has built up. The future activity in this area will naturally fall within the field of innovation. As far as this is concerned, we are getting closer to Stortinget in the 2006 budget, as requested. I've also noticed that a majority want SIVA to continue its involvement in the business garden in Murmansk. It's a vision I share. Norway has been long-term in relation to Barents cooperation. Now we see a new growth in Russia. They are in the process of success, and the business garden in Murmansk can also be a good starting point for putting Norway in a proper way in relation to the new activity. We know that the world's probably the largest oil field, the Shtokman field, is off the coast, and the Norwegian supplier industry is on full speed entry. In order to strengthen SIVA's economy, we have committed in the State budget a conversion of SIVA's sovereign debt to a contribution capital of 50 million. kr. So we're going to do another 50 million. kr from loans to equity. In addition, a separate proposition has been promoted that in addition to this 50 million. kr delivers 90 million. kr from loans to equity. So in a few months' time, proposals have been put forward to help make SIVA 140 million. NOK in loans from which interest is paid to equity. I just wonder when the last time SIVA got such a strong boost in equity. If someone could refer to it, it would be interesting. What the Government has put on the table now is important for the SIVA to also be able to take an active part in the work we need to create new activities in Norway. SIVA shall cooperate closely and effectively with the other instrument actors. Customers must feel that the institutions know each other's fields of action and can take responsibility for the whole, not just parts of it. SIVA is already involved in a comprehensive cooperation project with Innovation Norway and the Research Council. Like the Business Committee, I have great faith in the role of SIVA as a national network player, by helping to spread knowledge and R & D activity from key knowledge environments to the whole country. Such interaction is important for business development based on the commercialisation of research results. Knowledge and tasks must flow between environments throughout the country for maximum total value creation. We have provided a good basis for an effective and targeted SIVA through the notification and setting up of the Business Committee. The company will be a central player in the important work of the Government has initiated a comprehensive innovation policy. Strengthening cooperation between various actors in the private and public sectors is essential to reach the vision of becoming one of the world’s most innovative countries. SIVA's efforts must create the arena for innovation and networking as they have done, as they do, and as we have suggested they can do in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-23.ana.ud2576e921	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-23.ana.ud2576e925	I would like to ask the Minister of Industry about business gardens. We know that many people who start a business need a long time to get really going. I heard once that you had to expect it to take between seven and ten years before you saw the first figures in the accounts, especially when you were going to have an innovation that required some development work. We know that some of the companies that have started up in the business areas have been given favourable conditions in the first five years in relation to rental contracts, etc. Now you're approaching a time when this first time is out, and you expect them to be independent and able to make up for themselves in the normal way. I'm a little worried that we might lose some good businesses that would like to have a little bit more time, because we're a little bit too impatient. Does the Minister of Economic Affairs agree, and does the Minister of Industry think that SIVA should find arrangements to allow businesses that seem to have the right to live for a little longer with favourable conditions in the business environment?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-23.ana.ud2576e934	What I've been busy about is that we're going to have a powerful SIVA that, within the framework of it, can also give priority to the projects that SIVA's management and board believes are the ones that give the best payoff in terms of creating new businesses and increasing innovation in Norway. I have great confidence in SIVA. What SIVA and all innovation work need is predictability, and also a set of tools in place. Then this is very closely linked. This must be seen in conjunction with the seed funds that are now in place, at well over DKK 1 billion in the next year's budget, and it must be seen in the context of the improved conditions that the Government has now set up by promoting a separate case for the Storting relating to the regional seed resources, which are also close to DKK 1 billion. This must also be seen in the context of the assessments carried out by SIVA in relation to optimising the use of their resources. It's also up to the SIVA administration and the board to figure out where to get the most innovation out of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-23.ana.ud2576e941	Several have not asked for the word for a line. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-23.ana.ud2576e946	«Tris» was the word used by the representative Grethe Fossli when she noted with concern that the majority of the population did not choose to follow the Workers’ Party’s proposal for the SIVA loan framework. SIVA is coming out strengthened, determined the representative Inge Ryan. I certainly believe that the representative Ryan is the one who hits the record in today’s ‘shooting exchange’, if we can allow ourselves to call it that. The fact is that SIVA is currently strengthening its equity base, and is getting its lending framework strengthened. SIVA may retain its venture and seed funds. I think the most important thing is that SIVA is now flying forward with its own logo on the wings. A year ago, it was not obvious – all the time it was opened for SIVA to be assessed in Phase 2 in the context of the instrument proposal that we then discussed, where one alternative was that SIVA could be integrated into Innovation Norway. I think everyone today is very happy that this will not be the case, and that SIVA will be a future important instrument for the Norwegian state in terms of innovation, and in terms of instruments policy. I also believe that in today's debate it is important to take into account that when you miss a larger lending framework and more equity, you should not forget that we get in place, and preferably as soon as possible after the end of the year, the four district funds, which through the supplementary proposal have had a very much improved framework. We will have four new nationwide seed funds in place, so that the instruments we put in from the state in 2005 will be greatly improved and more robust than what has been the case when we look back in time. What I really asked for is for the presence of SIVA in North-West Russia, for which I think we have to call. SIVA should be the main instrument to be played by the State in this important neighbourhood, which may have the world's greatest 'welfare' front against it. I would have liked to see SIVA, of course in consultation with the contracting entity, the Ministry of Industry and Trade, become the instrument of Norwegian networking and developing a two-sided interest in this very important area. If SIVA looks even further beyond the Murmansk region's borders, I wouldn't have had any of the world's things against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-23.ana.ud2576e957	Since the representative Kristiansen grabbed some of my posts, I just have to answer: Yes, SIVA comes out a little more strengthened, but after the Stortinget has taken over the matter, and after the government has thought about it again. So I remember the last $90 million. kr came as an additional proposition to Stortinget while the Business Committee dealt with the matter, so there are probably some signals both from here and from there. I also recall that the Right and Christian People's Party groups have not fully followed the Government's proposal, but have therefore followed the majority in the Grand Duchy. So this is to the glory of the Big One, not necessarily of the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-23.ana.ud2576e970	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 12th@item: inlistbox [[See page 452]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-23.ana.ud2576e984	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 452]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-23.ana.ud2576e997	Then Stortinget is ready to go to voting in the cases on today's map. As previously agreed, the Foreign Minister's foreign policy statement on case No. 1 was discussed at the Stortinget meeting on 30 November.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-23.ana.ud2576e1066	During the debate, a proposal was put forward on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘1. The government is asking the government to conduct electronic voting trials at selected schools in the 2005 decision-making process, which includes voting over the Internet. This is done with a view to implementing such electronic voting in the 2007.2. The government is asking the government to organise the trials in order to focus on and examine in particular the conditions associated with the following factors:Safe identification of the selector, when selecting open network solutions. Confirmation that the vote has been cast. Securing the electoral system against intrusion and abuse.Implementation of verification and control procedures for the processing and storage of electronic votes, as well as for their enumeration.The retention of electronic votes and their counting should be subject to a public body of high ICT competence and distinguished from systems operated by commercial equipment and service providers.3. The Government is asked to carry out an evaluation of the trials submitted to the Authority. The tests must be so extensive that the evaluation results will be representative of the choice of younger voters for electronic choice and referenda over the Internet.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-23.ana.ud2576e1096	Alternatively, this proposal and the referral by the Committee shall be voted on.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-23.ana.ud2576e1113	I pressed the wrong button!
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-23.ana.ud2576e1120	As far as the President sees it, it does not make a dramatic decision on the voting result, but it is corrected for the sake of order. The Committee's opinion was then adopted by 80 votes to 16, with no votes against and no abstentions.
