ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17-2.ana.ud681e16	In agreement with the Council of Culture and the Council of Churches, family, culture and the Administrative Committee, Stortinget is now making a slight change in the programme. We're dealing with case No. 34 and 35 first, before we continue with the rest of the agenda.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17-2.ana.ud681e29	No one has asked for the floor. [[The sitting was closed at 7.30 p.m. and resumed at 5.30 p.m.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17-2.ana.ud681e44	At the request of family culture and the Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that three lines of reply be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - This is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17-2.ana.ud681e53	draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - (SV) In this case, an overall committee - all but the proposers themselves, Karin S. Woldseth and Ulf Erik Knudsen of the Progress Party - considers that no arguments have been put forward in the grounds for the proposal which justify making changes to previous decisions in the case. In this context, the majority refers to letters from the Ministry of Culture and the Church dated 18 May 2004, which state that the Ministry cannot see that the decision of ESA of 23 April 2004 to open the formal review of Storting’s decision in relation to the EEA Agreement itself can provide a basis for shifting the winding-up of existing vending machines. Nor can the Ministry see that the ongoing work on establishing a new and more modern gambling offer should be awaited as a result of ESA’s letter. The majority of the Committee shall base its assessment on this. Furthermore, the majority believe that there is no new information to the effect that the Storting should re-examine the case. The majority refers to the follow-up by the Government to the decision of the Storting relative to ESA, and underlines that this is up to the Government to handle. On this basis, the majority would not agree with the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17-2.ana.ud681e66	The progressing party realizes that once again we are alone in the matter of vending machines. It's sad, because we believed in what was stated in the Sem Declaration on securing financial resources and framework conditions that stimulate the efforts of voluntary teams and organisations, without the public taking the lead in their activities. In addition, when we were able to read in VG 16 June that Director Reidar Nordby in Norsk Tipping will deploy 120-150 vending machines, while only 538 vending machines are in commercial operation in 2005, I do not understand where to take the billions from which voluntary organizations will operate. There is a lack of approx. 9 400 vending machines to collect surplus from. What kind of financial resources does the Council intend to use to distribute a surplus in 2005? And where was it of the predictable framework conditions as stated in the Sem Declaration? If, in addition, it turns out that ESA assesses the legality of the Stortinget decision last year, which is contrary to the EEA rules, it will have enormous responsibilities, not least to all the voluntary teams and organisations that then receive no money because there have almost been no vending machines operating in 2005. This is a vacuum that can actually put many of the volunteer teams and organisations at risk of having to wind up. The timing has come to stay, and I don't think parents or drivers of teams and organizations are able to go back to the time when the spirit of hard work counsels in the country. The fact that SV looked at the degrees leaning on the words of the Council of State is not surprising in this matter, although their agenda is different. SV don't want vending machines of any kind, and that's fair and a real point of view. But that's not what SV says in this case. So, together with the other parties, a letter from the department where the department writes that, given that ESA has opened proceedings against Norway, there is no reason to postpone or postpone the decision taken by the Stortinget last year. It is the same department that provided the case at the time, and that has always wanted a monopoly on vending machines in cooperation with Norsk Tipping and Norsk Typing's General Assembly. I'll probably be accused once again of being in the pocket of the private vending machine, and that's not the first time. Of course I'm not. But me and the Progress Party have a commitment to the voluntary teams and organisations, and it is with great concern that we are now following the development and loss of revenue for these in 2005, when there are not more than 650 machines operating on a national basis. I do not understand where neither the Council of State nor the majority of the Grand Duchy will get the money that is promised to the voluntary world. But I'm afraid that the compensation for Freedom Norway as well as the notified lawsuits from the industry will cost Norway a lot of money. In its submission of 12 June 2003, the Council of State said: "Many of the actors in today's market have already signaled that they will bring the case to justice. There are now two complaints about the proposal by the market players for the management of the EFTA Supervisory Authority, ESA, in Brussels. The ESA will deal with the complaints when the Stortinget has made its decisions. Both I and the Government's experts are, however, overestimated that the proposal is within the scope of national self-government rights to which the EEA Agreement opens." - Well, ESA is obviously of a different opinion. The majority of the Committee, all with the exception of the Advance Party, said in its comments when the matter was under consideration in June 2003 that: "The majority refers to the proposition and to the letter of the Ministry of Culture and the Church to the Committee of 23 May 2003 [[attachment]] The question I have then left with is: When will the Storting take over the fact that ESA, which is the EFTA Supervisory Authority, has actually opened a case against Norway and that it may appear that they disagree with the majority of the Storting and the State Council in relation to the assessment carried out? When are you going to take inward that what the Storting is adding up to today is almost comparing to a thief who is being discovered, but just as fully continues to put money in his bag? I am promoting the proposals of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17-2.ana.ud681e102	The representative Karin Woldseth has taken up the suggestion she herself referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17-2.ana.ud681e105	On 17 June last year, the Storting decided that the vending machines we have today should be removed. A mass collapse was behind, except for the Progress Party's representatives. I am happy Stortinget has not changed his view of this matter in the year that has passed. The opposition to the decision from the commercial interests in the gaming market has been great all the way. Before Stortinget took a decision last year, there were two complaints about the proposal by the market players for the management of the EFTA Supervisory Authority ESA in Brussels. Now the ESA has received six complaints. The Autoowners’ Trade Organisation, NOAF, has taken the decision before Oslo Tingrett. The main debate is to be held in the autumn. The Court of First Instance has recently decided that proceedings should be brought before the EFTA Court before the Court of First Instance. Reactions are not expected. The operation of vending machines has evolved into a billion-dollar industry, almost without control. It was never meant that the operation of such machines would become a separate business path. With the Stortinget grip, we're going to have a whole new regime that will make it possible to reduce the social policy consequences. The fact that the ESA has the right to bring an action for a closer examination of the decision is not a direct surprise to that decision. means that Norwegian Typing shall have a single right to operate automatically. In my response to ESA, I will go into Norway and a number of other countries, both within and outside the EU, for many years I have had State unanimity for many of the gambling games that are at high risk of becoming addicted. The goal of uniting machines is to reduce the number of game addicts. The number of machines should be nearly halved. The machine translation must be more than halved. The peak gain will be reduced; the minimum duration of each game will be doubled. The game will become more innocent entertainment and less casino-like gambling. The government of the one-rights model is a decisive entity for the defence establishment of the slot machine market in Norway. One-right for Norsk Typing will provide optimal control and allow the machine to change its function quickly as knowledge increases on which factors may give rise to a risk of playing problems. This model will also provide rationalisation gains. Despite a decline from today’s level, the surplus of the social and humanitarian objectives can be secured at 2001 levels. I am personally very happy that it is now possible to make such a tightening. For a long time, I have received daily letters and e-mails from gambling addicts or relatives who find themselves in a tragic situation because of financial losses and debts associated with gambling. I'm glad I now have an answer that I believe in. I'm also glad that a large number of people on the Stortinget have taken these people seriously and entered for tightening up. It should be possible to shop milk and bread at the store without being met by a wall of slot machines. Even if the problems are not solved, we will now get the vending machines away from the grocery stores and the open rooms in the mall. We also have direct control over the development of such games. The fact that the ESA has opened a case in relation to the Norwegian Typing monopoly cannot change the fact that the machines we have today have proved to work in a way that is clearly contrary to the Norwegian gambling tradition. The situation has come out of control. The turnover has increased from DKK 8.5 billion to DKK 22 billion in three years. I think these machines should be removed as soon as possible. I'm glad that the same majority that supported the cases a year ago agree that there is no new information that would allow the Storting to deal with the matter again. I want to do what I can to convince ESA that the matter is an important and decisive social policy measure. I have great faith that the key here is to give ESA the best possible insight into the current state of the Norwegian gambling market, and how certain gambling especially needs strong regulation and strong government governance. Finally, there is reason to stress that the gambling market has changed significantly both nationally and internationally in recent years. So far, evolution has weakened the overall governance of the gambling supply in Norway. The newspapers report more and more people who have played away both home and family life from the computer at home or at work. In choosing a strategy to meet this development, it must not be forgotten that the goal of Norwegian gambling policy is a moderate game development. In a situation of increased gambling from abroad via the Internet and other channels, we must avoid encountering the new competition with as aggressive gambling as the offers we want to protect ourselves from outside. History has shown for hundreds of years that, over a period of time, the game industry has intervened, and is then streamlined because of the unfortunate consequences that appear. I believe that the international gambling supply we see today will eventually enter into more regulated forms when the consequences of developments become better known. When that time comes, it's important that we in Norway don't sit with such aggressive games as those we want to ban. The new one-right model, set up by a broad majority in Stortinget, gives us the necessary gaming policy power to better control developments where we want to.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17-2.ana.ud681e126	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17-2.ana.ud681e129	In the context of the establishment of a new slot machine regime, it was expressed by a majority of the family, cultural and administrative committees, all except the Advance Party, that it would be appropriate to continue gambling-related activities at the Fensens, by Norsk Typing locating the relevant parts of its activities there. The Council of State did not mention it in its submission. I would therefore like to ask the Council of State what status is today in terms of jobs at the Payers.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17-2.ana.ud681e134	There's no doubt that if Norsk Typing had got it exactly as they wanted, they would probably have cut out the entire Payers offer. They probably think it's most rational to add everything to Hamar. Just economically for Norwegian Typing, it would probably be most rational to add everything together to Hamar. This is an engagement that the Storting has shown, and that I myself have stood behind, and currently Norsk Typing has 10-12 settings on the Payers to have a customer center there. I want to follow up on this matter further, and I am very pleased that they have shown the willingness to listen to the Storting, so that we can keep a good deal of jobs at the Feners even in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17-2.ana.ud681e141	First of all, I just want to say that this document No. The 8th proposal is addressed to the Stortinget, not to the Council of State. I don't want to attack the council at all. I'm a little worried about the volunteer teams and organisations because of the vacuum around 2005, especially when we read that Norsk Tipping has postponed its purchases and taken over the fact that ESA has opened a case. As a result, they have at least slowed down the pace of purchasing vending machines. I wonder if the Council of State can tell me how she intends to get the money that is promised in 2005, when it seems that we can get a vacuum with only 650 vending machines in operation.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17-2.ana.ud681e148	For those of us who have followed and shared in this debate, it is a little strange to hear that there is one party that is occupied by the voluntary teams and organizations, and that all of us are not. As I know this hall and the different parties here, it's a great and warm commitment to giving the volunteer organizations economic space to do a great job. The progress party is not alone in that exposure. That's why I also thought it was pretty nice of the volunteer organizations to agree on the change we want, despite the fact that it would give them less money than if we had just continued the course we have today. They have said that we should be at the 2001 level in relation to the lie. For some organisations, this means that the growth they have been growing can no longer be counted. The reason they have taken that hold is enough that they also see that there is too much money to pay for those who do not. We have promised voluntary organizations that they will receive these funds. It's seen of funds on the Norwegian Typing premium fund.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17-2.ana.ud681e156	Some of the concerns raised in the case are possible lawsuits by industry actors who will be able to impose billions of claims on the State, I have seen in the newspapers. Personally, I can't see that players with outgoing concessions can claim compensation for lost income in the future, because there is certainly no automation in the concessions that are being used today. Have any consideration been given by the Council of State on such possible action for damages?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17-2.ana.ud681e161	One of the reasons why the machines can stand out in 2006 is that all the machines have passed the time they have been granted. Then all the autoowners have to search for a new concession. They don't get it. It's not automatic for one to get a new concession, even if a search - we have to deal with it to the extent that we witness in venues other than in the gaming industry. Now Stortinget has dealt with this, and therefore no new concessions are given. Therefore, I am not anxious about any lawsuits from these, because their agreement has expired, and the concession will not be renewed. But that's why we have to use the whole of 2006. Norwegian Typing has seen funds on its fund to cover these expenditures for the organisations for 2005, so that we can fulfill the promise we have given them in relation to the funds they will receive next year, for which the representative Woldseth was anxious.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17-2.ana.ud681e166	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17-2.ana.ud681e171	There's a lot of interesting hobby light here today. I could imagine getting involved in some realities and not doing hobbies, and quoting something from Today's Business Thursday, June 10, 2004 under the title "Norway Loses Always Against Esa", where it says the following: "Norwegian politicians constantly forget to take EU rules into account when creating new laws. Esa being careful gets right -- every time. Since the EEA Agreement began to operate more than 10 years ago, Esa - which is monitoring the EEA Agreement - has raised 200 formal cases. In these, Norway has bent off and adjusted the law in 98 percent of cases. The last two percentages come from the first years of the agreement. In practice, thus, Esa today flashes every single time." There is much evidence that Norway will be informed to amend its decisions in this area. I believe on the basis of these numbers that I've now provided, that it's a little naive to think that we're going to win out on this case. When it became known that ESA began to look at this matter, a number of teams and associations approached me and said that now they hoped that their machines and operations would be saved in the future. These were not the large and well-known organisations, but small local sports teams and other associations engaged in a lot of activity in the local environment, associations that are likely to drown in the new scheme. With regard to the reality of the matter, this is the case of the many good wishes. I think it's obvious that these measures will never eliminate gambling. There will always be more and more dominant ones, especially through the Internet and the mobile sector, to which everyone will gradually have access. Removing gambling madness by removing the machines or creating a monopoly on the machines is like saying that we have a wine monopoly in Norway, so we can't possibly have any alcohol problems. We know it's not like that. Finally, the majority’s opinion in this case. Since the social committee has arrived in the hall, I want to draw a parallel to a TV advertisement for travel insurance that is currently going, from a foreign hospital where you are about to cut wrong legs.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17-2.ana.ud681e189	What it has to do with the Social Committee! Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Thirty-five. [[The sitting was closed at 7.30 p.m. and resumed at 5.30 p.m.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17-2.ana.ud681e206	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3492]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17-2.ana.ud681e222	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 3493]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17-2.ana.ud681e238	At the request of the Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that three lines of reply be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - This is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17-2.ana.ud681e247	The usual discussions between the social security settlement parties have also been held this year in order to try to reach a common understanding and agreement on what will become the increase in the basic amount applicable from 1 May. The parties to the discussions are, as usual, the State, the Norwegian Pensioners' Association, the LO and the Joint Organisation of Disabled Persons. This year's discussions took place on 26 and 27 May. This year’s discussions focused mainly on the year’s regulation of the basic amount, and no demands were made for the collection of the historical posters that have become part of the pensioners. It's used in the proposition several different percentages, depending on which models you're using. Now, when I want to talk about the different offers and requirements, I want to use the comparable sizes. This means that one has corrected for the follow-up compensation granted on 1 May 2003. During the discussions, the organisations presented their requirement to increase the basic amount by 3,75 p.m., applicable from 1 May this year. On the morning of 27 May, the state submitted its offer, which was converted to this size. 3.5 pst. After further discussion, the State’s offer was raised to approx. 3.55 pst. This meant an increase in the basic amount from 1 May 2004 by NOK 1917, from NOK 56 861 to NOK 58 778. This was followed by an agreement between the State, the Norwegian Pensioners' Association and the Landsorganisation. However, the Joint Organisation of Disabilities could not accept this solution and broke the discussions. The majority of the Committee, all with the exception of the Advance Party, refers to the fact that the negotiated outcome is in line with the new guidelines on social security settlement and, on this basis, supports the proposal. The Socialist Left also promoted a proposal to amend the social security guidelines, in order to take into account in the future the expected income development of employees in total during the regulatory year, as reflected in the revised national budget. I guess this is what the Socialist Left Party itself will argue for in its article. I would like to make it clear that the Progress Party does not support this proposal, as this could result in future social security settlements being unilaterally linked to one particular situation and thus becoming too narrow. In its draft revised national budget, the Government has taken into account an expected wage growth for all groups of 3.75 p.m. for the current year. This is the same percentage as the organisations originally required in the discussions with the State. At the hearing of the Social Committee, the Joint Organisation of Disabilities showed that this requirement remained on their side. They further pointed out that when one looks historically at the different years of government estimates, there has at least been a trend in recent years that has shown that actual wage developments have become somewhat higher than those envisaged in the revised national budget. The Party agrees with the considerations put forward by the FFO during the Committee hearings. On this basis, the Progress Party proposes that the basic amount of the population’s security be set at NOK 58 945, which is equal to Pst 3.75. I take up the proposal of the Advance Party, which is included in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17-2.ana.ud681e270	The representative Harald T. Nesvik has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17-2.ana.ud681e273	The implementation of the social security settlement this year is hoping for a new era for the annual settlements. Throughout the year, the Social Committee has been working on guidelines and their practice in order to provide a basis for settlement that ensures pensioners and social security a trend in income in line with employees. The settlement of recent years has to a large extent been marked by a gamble between enlargement and government in terms of how the social security arrangements are to be implemented and a discussion of whether or not the Government has followed the guidelines. This discussion peaked at last year's settlement, where the majority of the Storting dictated in detail how the settlement was to be made, with a subsequent underwriting of the settlement because the guidelines for calculating the lag and expected wage developments had not been followed. There now appears to be a common understanding between the Government and the majority of the Storting on how to understand the guidelines and how to practice them. This common understanding must also, in the future, lead to social security settlements following procedures similar to those used in other collective bargaining, with the result that social security workers also follow wage developments elsewhere in society. After many years of working on this, it was therefore very gratifying to hear the Pensioners' Association in the committee hearing express its satisfaction with both the procedure and the result of the settlement. The FFO also confirmed that the discussions and determination of the follow-up had been carried out according to the guidelines, and confirmed that the long way to be accepted for the post-employment calculation can be said to have been completed, and that a very important piece of securing the income development of the insured person is in place. When the FFO nevertheless chose to break the negotiations, it was based on an assessment of the estimate for future wage developments, where the FFO believes it is in principle right to deal with the Government's estimate, as expressed through the revised national budget. This estimate was slightly higher than the estimate based on the income statement. In this respect, it is reasonable to point out that the revised national budget and the figures obtained here were calculated before the outcome of the wage negotiations was completed. As we see it, it's reasonable to take the freshest numbers into account. In this way, the Workers' Party, like the LO and the Pensioners' Association, considers that the social security scheme should be approved, as recommended by the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17-2.ana.ud681e286	I want to refer to the previous two articles. I don't have much more to say. It is gratifying that this year we have had a social security settlement that has agreed with two of the three parties. I believe that there is a broad consensus that the Government has followed the guidelines adopted in Stortinget last year. As I see it, it is linked to the fact that the FFO believes that one should link the settlement unilaterally to the Government's estimate in the revised national budget, and as one sees of the proposals that are being promoted today, the SV's proposal is actually taking up the principle position. Our starting point is the same as the representative Hildeng explained, that one here has to correct the map after the terrain when one has been given new information, when new large settlements are already in port when a social security discussion starts. Now there has been a development in which this group has had a significant real growth in its income in recent years. From 2002 to 2003, the growth was 5.1 pst. for single and 7.4 pst. for couples In the same period, there was a price increase of 2.5 pst. It illustrates that this group has experienced significant growth in purchasing power in recent years. It's going to be exciting to look forward to the discussions we're about to have about the Pension Commission's work, and to follow it up. Some of the themes here will again be a topic for discussion.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17-2.ana.ud681e299	SV is also pleased that this year's discussions with the organisations have ended without the level of conflict we saw last year. It is clear that the rounds you have had in Stortinget have now led to much clearer procedures than what they were. SV also supports the result that lies on the table, and has no need to go against the settlement. However, we agree with the input from the Joint Organisation for Disability that it may be important to be precise in terms of the type of estimation to be used. The majority of the social committee also expressed last year that the expected wage weight should be taken into account by reference to the figure set out in the revised national budget. That is why we want the guidelines to clarify them and have made proposals to that effect. I am now addressing that proposal. Otherwise you can get the situation that depending on whether you find a deviation at a later date that goes up or down, you can play on it for the Government most favorable estimate, and in that way not give the organizations what they should have in relation to the guidelines they were supposed to have. So we probably think it would have been reasonable to clarify it, so that, at the end of the year, you'll be able to clarify what kind of estimate to base. Otherwise SV will vote in favour of the settlement as it exists.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17-2.ana.ud681e308	The representative of Olav Gunnar Ballo has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17-2.ana.ud681e311	This is the first social security settlement we deal with after we adopted the new social security policy a year ago. The Christian People's Party had hoped that these guidelines had led to a great deal of agreement between the parties. I am pleased that the representatives of the Norwegian Pensioners' Association during the consultations with the Social Committee stated that this year's settlement was consistent with their interpretation of the guidelines adopted last year. The FFO chose to break the negotiations because the parties disagreed on what would be used for the calculation of the expected wage increase. The Christian People's Party has little understanding of this, as the result of the income statement from this year was known when the negotiations were in progress. Most final pay statements have had a framework for annual wage growth of about 3.5 pst. An increase in the basic amount of the population’s social security by NOK 1 917, from NOK 56 861 to NOK 58 778, corrected for the effects of the post-sleep compensation granted on 1 May 2003, shows that the growth is above 3.55 pst. This shows that the offer was at least in line with the developments in income of economically active persons. The Christian People's Party finds it strange that the Progress Party is on the same line as the FFO. If it turns out that the historical development of annual wage growth is higher than that currently envisaged, this will be re-regulated. For the Christian People's Party, it is important that pension settlement is within the framework of income policy settlement. We know that for most employers, employees' wages are 80-90 pst. of the expenditure of the enterprises. It is important that one does not get into a situation where the growth of pensions helps to push the growth of wages to economically active upwards. There has been a great deal of political agreement that the negotiating institute should be real. I think the Progress Party is involved in weakening this, because they are also investing in a higher basic amount this year. According to the revised national budget, the expenditure on the social security systems of the people has increased by nearly DKK 3.2 billion since the adoption of the 2004 budget. Every five Nordics have social security as their main source of income. One reason why spending is increasing is that the number of older people is increasing. At the same time, we see that the older people of the future have higher incomes, including: as a result of supplementary pensions earned. They have higher education, often wealth and good living standards. The low price increase means that pensioners, like others, have improved their finances in recent years. As a Christian People's Party representative, I'm proud that couples now gradually receive a self-earning of each of their pensions. This is a matter for which the Christian People's Party has fought for several years. Already in 1991, it was proposed that married pensioners should have independent rights. As a result of today's decision, the pension for a minimum pension fund will increase by NOK 9 048 per year. year to SEK 190 248 per year. years. The calculation takes into account that the basic pension for married couples and cohabitants increased from 0,8 G to 0,825 G from 1 May this year. This is a step in the right direction, with which the Christian People's Party is satisfied.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17-2.ana.ud681e328	The guidelines on social security were widely debated in this Chamber last year, and there was a broad consensus on how these should be designed. I am very pleased to note that the consensus that was in Stortinget last year when we dealt with these guidelines has been put into practice this year between the parties, also with clear statements from the Norwegian Pensioners' Association that the negotiations of the year were conducted in such a way that they were consistent with these guidelines. I think that is a pleasure and should be pointed out from the Parliament's pulpit. On 27 May, an agreement was reached between the State, the Norwegian Pensioners' Association and the Landsorganisation in Norway on an increase in the basic amount of the population's income by NOK 1 917, suggesting that 1 G now amounts to NOK 58 778. It produces a growth in the basic amount from 2003 to 2004 of 3,89 pst., and corrected for the effects of the follow-up compensation there is a growth of over 3.55 pst. The Joint Organisation of Disabilities, the FFO, could not accept this arrangement and broke the negotiations. The FFO itself has explained the main reason for their breach, and it is that the increase in the basic amount should be at the same level as the estimated expected wage growth indicated by the Government in the revised national budget. The centre party understands that this can be used in principle, but at the same time it must also be pointed out that the real wage growth through the negotiations that had already been concluded at the time of the social security negotiations showed that there might be some corrections. At the same time, it is worth noting that two out of three parties, the Norwegian Pensioners’ Association and the Landsorganisation in Norway, have acceded to the agreement on the social security settlement of the year. These are weighty reasons. At the same time, there is reason to stress the importance of the functioning and respect of the negotiating institute when two out of three parties enter into an agreement with the State. With this, I would say that the Central Party is voting in favour of the negotiated proposal for the 2004 social security settlement.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17-2.ana.ud681e341	Like the representatives who have spoken, I am also very pleased that in this year's discussions we reached a result and an agreement with the Norwegian Pensioners' Association and the LO on the regulation of the basic amount. We are talking here about a regulation that determines large parts of the income of over 1 million income earners in the country. In other words, it is a very comprehensive settlement, and it is precisely for this reason that there is such a broad consensus on the results we have achieved. Of course, I would prefer to see that the FFO had also signed the agreement. It didn't work this time, and I'm sorry about that. However, I place great emphasis on what the Pensioners' Association has said in the Committee, where they say that this settlement was in accordance with their interpretation of the social security policy as they were adopted in this Chamber for one year ago. I am also pleased that the settlement has received broad agreement in Stortinget, not least because we of the Government put great emphasis on it when we prepared the year's discussions and the year's settlement. In particular, I would like to point out the way in which we have dealt with the aftermath problem in this year's settlement. By subtracting the follow-up compensation that was granted in 2003, out of the year's settlement, we got a clean-up in the settlement that I believe contributed greatly to the consensus we reached. I noticed that no one in Stortinget has had any comments on the way this is done. The Socialist Left has proposed amendments to the guidelines for the regulation of the basic amount which locks the estimate of expected wage growth to that contained in the revised national budget. I think the guidelines that were adopted a year ago now deserve to remain unchanged for more than one year. Furthermore, I think it might be a little weird with such a change, seen in conjunction with the comments of the Socialist Left Party in the setting, where they say: "These members, however, base the agreed guidelines. In the social security settlement of the year, the result of the income statement was known, and these members believe that this must be the starting point." I can hardly interpret this differently from the fact that the Socialist Left believes that the estimate in the revised national budget is to be used even if there are good reasons for something else. Now I want to make it clear that we do not yet know what this year's income statement total will come out with. What we know is what the different parties have added as a framework. In the social security system, we, together with two organisations, have chosen to focus on this. If the social security settlement parties are not to exercise such discretion, the whole of the discussion institution becomes superfluous. The proposal by the Socialist Left to amend the guidelines will in practice mean the abolition of the entire discussion institute. The Progress Party has put forward a proposal underpinning the estimate of wage growth in the revised national budget. It's in itself a neat and neat position. What is against this is that two of the three organisations involved in the discussions believe that one can lay down what the social partners say is the framework for this year's wage settlement, as a model for social security settlement. Then I would like to add that if we were now to bomb the pay growth assumptions, it will be corrected next year, and that model the government took on this year's after-sales management, ensures that this will be done in a tidy way. Just this security, I think, was crucial for us to have a discussion solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17-2.ana.ud681e364	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17-2.ana.ud681e367	It was at least nice that the Council of State got cleared up in several of the misunderstandings that are evident in this Chamber in terms of wage-fixing, because it's actually not finished yet. We don't know what the average wage growth is because, among other things, shall have part of the local settlement. There's a lot of people who haven't finished it yet, so that's what you've been thinking about, which is what the numbers are all about. But what I wanted to ask the Council of State concerns the parties involved in the discussions. There, the Norwegian Pensioners' Association, representing some pensioners participating in the FFO, participates in the LO. My question is whether the Council of State will carry out a review and assess whether there are no others who should also get involved in the discussions, including: The national team of public pensioners and some other organisations. Will the Council of State carry out a review of this in order to obtain the widest possible representation of the pensioners?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17-2.ana.ud681e374	I'm not a stranger to assess that question. At the same time, I think it's worth stressing that we're not going to make the discussion institute more complicated and more comprehensive than necessary to get a result The Stortinget will join each social security debate. I would like to take as my starting point that the guidelines adopted last year by the Stortinget provide a framework for social security settlement, which means that the discussions themselves, hopefully, will continue to work in the future, in the same way as they have done this year, namely in a way where it was neat and easy to reach agreement, and where the Storting broadly adheres to the discussion solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17-2.ana.ud681e381	I react a little to the presentation to the Council of State, because it is not that SV disagrees with the settlement of the year. But we're saying that we want clear guidelines in relation to not being able to juggle between different sizes. What I want to ask the Council of State is: if you think about next year that you're going to have a difference between the number that's in the revised national budget and what you're going to get after the settlement, where you get a higher number and not, like now, a lower number, then you're going to take the consequence of what you've done this year, and base the highest number, so that you don't always pick it out of the two sizes that are going to be the lowest, so that the government is going to get the most economical way out? I hope the council understood the question.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17-2.ana.ud681e388	The starting point for this outcome shall be discussions between the organisations and the Government. The starting point for these discussions must be the guidelines adopted by the Stortinge last spring. But it became clear in the debate on those guidelines and through the connection to social security this year that there is room to assess the actual situation at the start of the negotiations. It will ultimately be the final wage trend in our society that will also be the starting point for the regulation of G that will take place for this social security settlement, regardless of whether there is a wage trend above or below the estimate in the revised national budget. So with the regulation clause contained in Storting's decision last year, the pensioners, regardless of whether we make the right decision on the social security settlement itself, will be guaranteed the income development Stortinget has foreseen.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17-2.ana.ud681e395	Several have not asked for the word for a line. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 21st Last@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 3494]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17-2.ana.ud681e412	It is almost a short comment, but I would like to say a little about a relationship in connection with this setting. We note in the committee that there has been agreement on the outcome of the negotiations with the Norwegian Physiotherapy Association and the Norwegian Association of Psychologists. With regard to the negotiations between the Norwegian Medical Association, the Municipal Council of the Central Association of Local Authorities, the State and the regional health companies, they have not been concluded, and the Government requests an authorisation to conclude them and to return with its own and final allocation case when this is carried out in port. The mandate requested by the Ministry of Health in relation to concluding the agreement on basic grants, operating grants and medical tariffs and, therefore, the power to decide on changes in the resulting social security disbursements, we are highly sceptical. We believe that there is reason both for principle and for practical reasons to notice this and comment on it. The influence and responsibility of the majority are thus greatly weakened, and the experience of the previous round of negotiations with the introduction of a fee at telephone consultations does not give any further enthusiasm for such a power management and that we should give ourselves the opportunity to get an overview and insight of what will be the final result. There could also be reason to comment on salary levels and contractual arrangements, not least in the case of doctors and the development of health companies, but I will not do so now, we will consider that in a different context. We believe that these negotiations should start so early that there is a reasonable time to arrive at a result so that final negotiations can take place in the Stortinge. We now see that the situation is such that it is very difficult to change this without a mandate being given, but I would like to inform you in this way that for future negotiations and arrangements, this needs to be changed in order to avoid this situation. We've been in part the same situation before, so now there's reason to maybe correct a index finger in the weather.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17-2.ana.ud681e429	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 22nd@item: inlistbox Before we start on case No. 23, let's pause a little bit so that we can get the case rapporteur and the Council of State in place. [[Fotation, see page 3496]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17-2.ana.ud681e443	Then we start with the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17-2.ana.ud681e456	At the request of the Defence Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that three lines of reply be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17-2.ana.ud681e465	The size shall today take a decision on a Document No. 8-proposals from the Workers' Party for the conversion of the sale of the Eastern Farms so that the property remains in public ownership. Alternatively, the proposers suggest that the area would be requested to be expropriated if necessary. The farms are an area of approx. 2,600 dekars and 45 smaller and larger islands. The Eastern Bolars are at 590 dekars. The Eastern Islands are an island, which, like the rest of the island group, has been inaccessible to the public for nearly 100 years. The island is located in a very popular boating area and has good mooring possibilities, as well as a sheltered port. Now, after the defense's disposal of the archipelago, the "Access is prohibited" signs are about to be removed, and the Minister of Defense has encouraged the boatmen to use the area - subject to seasonal restrictions in relation to animal life. The closure of the activities of the defence, the removal of barges and the disposal of property in the Lands, is primarily a welcome message to all boaters and the public interested - as the local population. First, it is important to stress that the sale of the Land has been carried out according to the Storting guidelines for the sale of the Land of Defence. A government-binding agreement on the sale of the property Östre Bolærne to Brunstad Conference Center AS, which was the highest bidder, has been concluded. Furthermore, the municipality of Nøtterøy has been given the opportunity to take care of the public interest in the Eastern Islands and to ensure that the purchaser complies with the encumbrances on the property. The majority of the Committee agrees with the proposers that larger areas, especially in the coastal zone, need to be ensured for the public. The right of universal access is the most important support for the exercise of an active open-air life by all. For the sake of open-air life and the importance of the rules relating to the right of all persons, formal commitments in the form of materialised clauses have been made in the case of the disposal of the Bolars that 2400 out of 2600 decks are available to the public. The other 200 Decars are a concentrated area with building mass on the Eastern Islands, which is also to be organised through a wide range of activities open to all. In most cases there is no conflict between the public's desire for free movement and private ownership. Many believe that there is a contrast between private ownership on the one hand and all-man rights on the other. It's a misconception, in my opinion. All rights have long traditions in Norway. The rights of all persons are a collection of rights that people in general have over someone else's real estate. An important law here is the Law on Outdoor Life of 28 June 1957 No. 16, which regulates the public's right to travel in nature. This law applies to both private and public land and gives the public the right to exercise outdoor life, such as walking, mooring and ashoreing from the boat, rest and bathing. The law applies, for example: Both for the 70 pst. of Oslomarka, which is privately owned, and for the 30 pst. owned by the public. The same law also applies, for example. for the east of the Bolärna in the Nut Island Archipelago and for the west of the Tyrifjord. In the case of the Eastern Islands, a number of clauses have been introduced for both inland and outdoor land, which means that the rights of all persons apply significantly longer than those directly deriving from the law on outdoor life. With positive signals from both purchasers and local and regional authorities on a possible common solution, a joint committee has chosen to place considerable emphasis on this. I would like to stress that it is the commitment of the legal owner, together with the county council and the municipality of Nuttøy, which allows us to find here a unified and amicable solution. A unanimous defence committee supports the continuation of this process. The State shall ensure that negotiations take place between the Brunstad Conference Center, the municipality of Nøtterøy and the county of Vestfold. Since this is a matter that has brought considerable local and regional attention, it is important that local and regional actors contribute to providing an amicable solution to the matter. Public access has always been ensured by the encumbrances imposed on the property by the seller. Now, when we get a solution that takes care of the strong feelings that this coast pearl has triggered, that's good. Furthermore, a unanimous Committee of the Government is asking for a review of the property to be disposed of by the State, in particular with regard to the properties of interest in relation to the possibilities of outdoor life and/or cultural history of the general public, and for drawing up a plan for the safeguarding of the rights of all persons and/or the protection of such property. In addition, the Committee shall, acting unanimously on a proposal to ask the Government to clarify the guidelines for the sale of the properties of the Defence. Essentially, it is difficult to distinguish between these two request decisions. As far as I can see, the Storting asks the Government for the same twice. It is therefore not problematic for government parties to support both proposals. Furthermore, I refer to the document as it exists and recommend the Committee's position. It won't be time to comment on minority comments here. I'm assuming that the parties that have minority comments do themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17-2.ana.ud681e497	We're going to have to wait in suspense.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17-2.ana.ud681e500	On 29 May, it became known to the public through Dagbladet that Shifting Property – or Defence Building – had decided to sell the East Bank to Smith's Friends through the Brunstad Conference Center. Today, a monotonous magnificent Easters secures the Bolars back to the public. The island is to be secured by public ownership and the Government is asked to ensure that it is conducted through negotiations between the different parties, inter alia. Smith's Friends, Vestfold County Council, Nutterøy Municipality, possibly at a makeshift that is made possible by the goodwill of Brunstad. But of course this matter should never have come this far. Today, when we consider grounds for tightening up the legislation on the disposal of defence property and asking for a plan for which facilities should be protected, it is because there has not been a political will in the government apparatus to deviate from the highest bids in the last three years when particular consideration has been given to it. In 2001 the Stoltenberg government presented the major defence reform in St.prp. No 45 for 2000-2001. The size agreed that the defence would sell 2 million m2 of buildings and installations as a result of closures and geographical concentration. It was underlined in the proposition that the starting point for disposal should be the market price, but that there would always be exceptions to this. All-man rights, building of cultural historical value, open air life, to heavily burdened communities had to be taken into account in determining the price of the property. The Defence Committee created a separate setting for fastenings and cultural historical values, Innst. S. No 314 for 2000-2001. The government was asked to come back with a separate case for the preservation of the attachments. Despite several reminders, we have not yet received such a case from the Ministry of Labour and Administration. We therefore had to promote a document No. Eight proposals on Oscarsborg last year. And so now we have the East Poles to deal with. But it must not become a habit that such matters must go to Stortinget as individual cases, because this is not where we are going to conduct this kind of proceedings, it will only be exceptional. Now I think the Hilde Haugsged of the newspaper hit the nail on her head when she last Saturday wrote that the rules for selling the properties of the defense "was first and foremost designed with regard to fallow facilities and plots in struts where there is plenty of coastline and outland, not where this is lacking. An island off the coast of Norway's densely populated areas is among the most valuable in our national heritage, which must be secured for the people in the future through public ownership". Against this background, it is incomprehensible that the Council of State has not assessed the disposal of the Eastern Islands as one of the sales requiring special consideration "to safeguard cultural and outdoor interests", as expressed by Victor Norman in this Chamber on 27 February 2002 exempting from the State's disposal instructions. A difference of 2.5 million. Do not roll over the defence budget. The defence exhibition at Hellerudletta last year cost more than 20 million. kr. The problem is, as I see it, that in the current political leadership of the Ministry of Defence there has never been a political will to deviate from the main rule of market price - with the Eastern Islands as the worst example so far, but we have had other examples. And let me from this pulpit mention the fight for and the hours we've spent to get Rissa Municipality to buy Hysnes quickly at a slightly lower price than the market price. It was probably the municipality that could be defined as a specifically burdened community, because of the loss of jobs. We've had this before in an interpellation. For this reason, the Stortinget Government is now asking for a review of the properties to be disposed of. We want a plan on how to ensure universal rights or the protection of cultural values, and that the sales guidelines are clarified in this context.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17-2.ana.ud681e530	The Eastern Bolärne case has engaged the people of Westfold to the degrees, yes, for that matter people engaged far beyond the borders of Westfold, not only because a coastal pearl was slipping out of the public's hands, but also because the matter has a strong symbolic effect. Not least make the poor craftsmanship and poor discretion visible by two government councils. The Minister for the Environment and the Minister for Defence fully supports a previously poorly formulated decision in Stortinget that after the public has first received the offer and renounced it, everything superfluous material, land and building stock in the Defence must be sold to the open market and sold to the highest bidder. And that's where it goes. I don't think either the Minister for the Environment or the Minister for Defence had been inspecting the East Poles before they dealt with the matter. Then they would quickly have discovered that this is a pearl that must not go out of the public domain, so that the public would have lost the possibility of an ideal recreational area. In the opinion of the Progress Party, the two aforementioned state councils have not shown sufficient discretion in this matter. Their opinions and positions were also made clear during the hearings. They did not wake up empty, and were not willing to listen to the public opinion or good advice. So we can just record that since this is a committee that goes across the board's opinion, even their own members in the committee have taken the sense. I would like to stress that all parties to the case have acted correctly. Change Property has followed the adopted disposal guidelines, and it can be understood that they have been under a certain pressure, when the government parties and the Workers' Party have, through their defence settlement, aged by making high amounts of money in the case of the sale of property. After all, when insufficient funds are allocated to the defence of the defence budget, these parties have already accepted the sale to the maximum bidder in order to secure the defence of the funds. Balancing the budget for the sale of property is very unfortunate. One must therefore wonder that the criticism of the sale of the East Poles is just coming from the Workers' Party when, through the agreement with the government parties on the revised budget, they impose a further sale of 50 million defence properties. kr. The Party is committed to placing greater emphasis on the public interest criteria when disposing of the property of the defence than is described in current disposal instructions. We will therefore make the following proposals: "When defence properties are to be disposed of, examined and assessed first, the possibility of the property being used for reasonable and common purposes of society under public authority or responsibility by other state agencies, county councils and municipalities. If the case is considered to be the case, the property is transferred free of charge to the competent public authority, subject to a clause for the purpose for which the decision is based.In the absence of relevant social purposes for which the property is to be used, it is sold to the maximum bidder for income for the State treasury." Once the Committee has come to an overall recommendation, this will be a strong and important signal to the Government to initiate an agreement between the parties and a signal to the parties that they are contributing positively. After the hearings and what came out there, I'm sure this will succeed. Similarly, the Government is asked to "make a review of the properties to be disposed of" and also to "clarify the guidelines for the sale of the properties of the Defence". This case has made it clear that there is a need for these recommendations to be adopted. Finally, I would like to refer to the motion for a resolution tabled by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17-2.ana.ud681e550	The representative Per Ove Width has taken up the suggestions he referred to--and referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17-2.ana.ud681e553	The island group Bolärne is no longer isolated for a discussion about 45 beautiful islands in Oslofjord and about who is going to buy at what price. It has become an example of the great importance of such properties being jointly owned by the people. This case concerns the 45th island, the Eastern Islands, but also has meaning for other properties to be sold by the Defence through the Committee's designation. The defence is intended to sell many properties, and the majority of the Storting has demanded that sales provide income to cover some of the costs of other parts of the Defence. The size has allowed specific reasons for exemption from the principle of sale to the payer. It has given the Minister of Defense the opportunity to use discretion, but she has not understood that. That's why what happened happened. The Eastern Islands were sold at the full market price, despite the fact that the Directorate for Nature Management had said that they were interested in the property, but not in the buildings – and had no free means – that the municipality of Nuttøy was interested, but had no money, and that the Vestfold county municipality was interested, but did not have the right to purchase. So the Minister of Defence could use discretion. There were public buyers, but the Minister of Defense did not realize that this was important. Why didn't she? And why has this become a big case, where the Storting has recently taken over, and instructs the Minister of Defense that the Eastern Islands remain in public ownership? That's what the Big City is doing. I am pleased, but the matter could have been avoided if the Minister of Defense had realized that it is better for the public to own this property than for the public to determine the access of the public to - in this case - land areas for which there is not yet a confirmed regulatory plan, as stated in the open hearing. I would quote from Section 2 of the Outdoors Act: "In the open field, every person can travel on foot all year long, when it is done considerately and with due caution." Everyone's right is essential, because it gives people the right to move in nature. But many, like a pure reflex, will be careful to go into private property, despite the fact that you have a right to it. It's right on the road along the whole coast. Nevertheless, many people feel that access to beach areas has been greatly reduced in recent years, due to cabins, houses, fences, docks and other installations. You feel like you're invading on a private basis. It should not be so, but it should be so, among other things. for such reasons, the relatively untouched areas become even more important. I'm going to assume that this is one of the reasons why people have gone man of houses in Westfold lately. Eastern Farmers will now be guaranteed public ownership, and it will also be possible to develop the property for the benefit of outdoor life. The defence is intended to sell many properties, and for many of them there are also particular reasons why they should not be sold to private individuals, without it being clear what kind of social interests are attached to them and whether such interests should lead to who is to be taken over. Therefore, it is gratifying that a joint committee now asks the Government to carry out a complete review of the properties of the Defence that are relevant for sale, and to assess which properties are interesting in terms of all-man rights, open-air life and cultural history. A plan will then be made for how properties of the greatest interest to the public can remain in public ownership. I am pleased that an overall committee will also ask the Government to review the guidelines for the sale of defence property to be disposed of, so that there are clear guidelines for future sales. This case has shown that it is not so clear who has the right to purchase, and who does not have it. It is therefore important that this is now made perfectly clear. For SV, it is not important that the defence should make the most money on the sale of properties, but that the properties should be disposed of in such a way that they benefit the people where there is a need for open-air areas and protected areas, or where there are cultural-historical reasons to do so. In the opinion of the SV, this would have been significantly easier if the State disposal instructions, allowing free transfer between state institutions, were also applicable to defence buildings. Then we had avoided the situation that arose when the Directorate of Nature Management announced its interest, but could not afford to buy the entire property. The property could have been transferred to another public owner - free of charge. In order to make this possible, the SV and the Central Party have made proposals to amend the disposal file, and I address this proposal. I would like to ask the Labour Party to explain whether it might be appropriate to support the proposal to amend the disposal file, after the review of the various properties has been carried out.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17-2.ana.ud681e580	The representative of Kjetil Bjørklund has mentioned the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17-2.ana.ud681e583	The Christian People's Party is concerned with public access to the beach zone. The right of universal access is the main support for access to recreational and open-air areas. Therefore, the Storting also facilitates public access to free movement. Then to the East Poles. I would like to point out that Shifting Property, which on behalf of the Ministry of Defence has managed to sell the East Bank, has been a prerequisite for ensuring the public interest in the area throughout the sales process. Change Property has followed the adopted guidelines for the disposal of defence properties in the way they have disposed of the East Bank. The sales process has provided the public with the opportunity to take advantage of this attractive area for recreation. The sale has also taken care of the state's interests as a seller of the building stock. There are strict requirements on behalf of the public on the part of the defence. These requirements have been met by the purchaser without reservation. In the case where the purchaser was not required to comply with the obligations vis-à-vis the public, the clauses in question would be based on the grounds of coercion which may be used by the municipality of Nøtterøy, since the defence has given the municipality the opportunity to safeguard the public interest in the Eastern Islands. The matter of the East Poles has created great commitment in Westfold--no doubt about it. Westfold is a relatively small coastal area with a high population density. Vestfoldinger has always been happy in fjords. You can see that on summer days when the boats are thick on the fjord. The problem is that the areas in which you can anchor have been too few. That's what's being expressed when the people now stand up to this sale. Too much of the beach zone is perceived as inaccessible to most people. I'm glad that Smith's friends are prepared to negotiate with the Vestfold County Municipality and the Nøtterøy Municipality a solution that makes the Eastern Islands become public owned, that the island is used for social purposes, and that the public is guaranteed full and free access. It serves Smith's friends to the credit that they agree to this. I have no doubt that Smith's friends could have taken care of buildings and outdoors in the Eastern Islands in a good way. They have resources and not least a voluntary commitment that we've seen expressed in other contexts. That is why it is a great responsibility that will now lie with the new owners. Buildings shall not be due. It is necessary to ensure that the Eastern Poles are properly cared for. The reduction of the beach zone is a major problem in some municipalities. The Christian People's Party believes that it is important to safeguard the right to travel abroad in general. It promotes outdoor life and physical activity and helps to strengthen people's relationship with and sense of responsibility for nature. It is also necessary to ensure the use of the beach zone by the general public and to ensure that the 100-metre rule is essentially governing. However, it is not possible for the public interest to be safeguarded only by public ownership of all coastal areas. When things are cleared, clauses ensuring access to both the beach zone and the port are freely available to boaters, bathing, fishing and barbecues. If, in principle, the Workers' Party is opposed to private ownership of areas of public value, you can question what the AUF writes on its websites, that "the noise is the AUF's own island". What about the fact that this effectively ensures the best possible quality of outdoor life and the public interest? This is anyway an important day for Vestfold. A broad public commitment has got a good result. The Christian People's Party fully supports this.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17-2.ana.ud681e602	The central party is of the opinion that there is a sensible decision that is to be taken today, by a unanimous increase asking for negotiations to be concluded with a view to the possibility of the Eastern Islands being in public ownership and being used for social purposes. Not least, it is good that a request for a plan for the disposal of properties should be made and for how to deal with the public’s opportunities for outdoor life, cultural history or other important purposes. What we're really doing today is making a reasonable correction to the previous decisions of Stortinget, among other things. on the disposal of the properties of the Defence. As the history of this case has been, there is no doubt that one here has chosen to practice the legislation both for square and for bureaucratic. There have also been unclear responsibilities between ministries in taking initiatives to ensure, inter alia, that: this property. The blame cannot be placed on one department or department without further delay. The minister could have used more discretion, and the government, collectively, could also have looked at this with a little bit more discretion. It is also the responsibility of the Minister for the Environment to do so. But I have to say that I also find it unfortunate that the Storting here, at the end of May, addresses a matter such as such a dealing in the Storting in two weeks, based on a single example that gets a lot of media attention. This question deserves a much broader assessment than has been received through the Document No. The 8 that has been presented here. That is why I think the II Decision today is the most important thing, namely that a person gets a review of all properties that might be affected by this kind of issue related to public interest and outdoor life, and that one gets the very broad assessment that needs to force itself into the wake of this case. Because there might be a lot of things going on. We have already received enquiries about Årøyholmen in Lyngenfjorden in Troms, where there is a strong local desire for this to be returned to the public. From my own area I will point to one of the defence properties along the coast of Trondheimsfjorden, in Malvik, which is a beach pearl without equal. What's also going to happen to it is a question that has great parallelities to today's case, sail if one has perhaps not come as far as one in today's case has come. But in any case, I think it's precisely because the plan that someone here has asked for in respect of all the properties, maybe the most important decision is the Stortinget decision this evening. Otherwise I'll have a few comments. One is that I think it is important not to rush into this in the course of the negotiations in such a way that it in turn creates solutions that can generate strong resistance or strong opposition to interest. I think it's important here to take the time needed to find a solution that will be accepted by all parties locally and that does not lead to new conflicts. I also believe that in the wake of this case, one should go through the responsibility between the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Environmental Protection in terms of securing these types of properties. Here, the Ministry of the Environment must have been rather passive in relation to the whole question. It's a relationship that I think deserves some attention between departments. The centre party agrees to some extent with what has been said by some speakers here, that property does not necessarily need to be public in order to ensure universal and open-air living. In that question, I think there's reason to exercise some discretion. However, in some cases public ownership will be a clearer and clearer signal of access to the public and the interests of the outdoors. However, it is not such that the public interest is safeguarded only by public ownership. The central party also cooperates with SV on a proposal concerning free transfers between state institutions. After the reorganisation, defence buildings have suddenly come out of the group of establishments referred to as state institutions, in relation to this instruction. It's unfortunate, all the time we know that many of the decisions we're facing are just linked to Defence Buildings, and there's not least the relationship between Defence Buildings and other state institutions, among other things. The Ministry of Environment must be clearer than today.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17-2.ana.ud681e620	When the defense sells properties, several things are important. We're going to follow the guidelines of the Storting's decision and the disposal instructions, we're going to ensure the public access to natural and cultural experiences, which have not been possible on these properties in the past, and we're going to achieve the net sales income target of 295 million. kr, as the defence has been imposed by the Stortinget by means of the budgetary agreement between the Government Parties and the Workers' Party. Some properties owned by the Defence are of little interest to the public, while it is very important to ensure public access to others. Bollocks are just an area where it has been important to ensure public access, and therefore a significant effort has been made to create encroachments, materialistic assumptions and premises for the sale of these properties that have had as one clear objective the protection of the rights of all persons. Publicity must be ensured regardless of whether a sale goes to private or public actors. As a result, several islands, hollows and cuttings of a total of 2 010 measures were sold to the municipality of Nøtterøy for a symbolic sum, and therefore one island, the Oostre Bolärne, which was not sold to the municipality of Nøtterøy, was sold with a number of encumbrances and restrictions to ensure universal access. The restrictions imposed on Eiendom shifted were, in short, that the marine area should be open and include an offer for all, that everyone should be able to use the open air areas, and that the operation of the building mass should be such that not one special group should have access to it alone. In this way, the Ministry of Defence and Change Property ensured that today's prohibited areas in the future would be open areas. Like all other public and private stakeholders, the Brunstad Conference Centre had to accept these conditions of acquisition. On Monday it became known that the Brunstad Conference Centre had taken an initiative towards the municipality of Nøtterøy and the municipality of Vestfold, which could lead to an agreement between these parties. I think that was a very positive initiative. I would like to stress that the Brunstad conference centre per. Today we have the legal rights of the island of Eastern Europe, and I note that the majority of the Committee also acknowledges this. Therefore, it is positive that Brunstad itself has taken the initiative towards the Vestfold County Municipality to transfer these rights to the county municipality, through e.g.: It's a change of heart. The solution will therefore primarily be to find a dialogue between the Brunstad conference centre on the one hand and the authorities, the municipality of Nøtterøy and the county of Vestfold, on the other. Of course, the Ministry of Defence will, through Change Property, ensure that such dialogue takes place, and help to ensure that such dialogue ends in a good solution for all parties. A dialogue in which all parties have shown an interest will therefore be pursued in order to find solutions. In the light of the suspension of the Defence Committee, the Ministry of Defence will prepare a letter of implementation for Defence Building by Shifte Eiendom with specific mandates linked to the relevant decisions. Defence construction by Shift Property is requested to ensure that the negotiations between the buyer of the Østre Bolärne, Brunstad Conference Center AS, and the Vestfold County and Nøtterøy Municipality take place, and Defence Building will be assigned to take on a fasilitator role, where they contribute to the parties reaching an amicable agreement. I would also like to ask Defence Buildings to carry out a full review of the property, construction and facilities of Defence to be disposed of, especially considering the properties that are interesting in relation to the possibilities of outdoor life and cultural experiences of the general public, and how this can be ensured in connection with disposals. I intend to return to this in connection with the landfill proposal for the autumn. But I'd like to stress what more people have been about, actually a majority of speakers here today, that it's not that it's just public ownership that ensures the public interest. Clauses and materialistic commitments are also ways of safeguarding the public interest, and there must be flexibility on a case-by-case basis. I think it is gratifying that the majority of the committee leaves to the parties in cooperation with the state to find an amicable solution, and I also think there is reason to recall that when we are dealing with St. pp. No 1 shall consider guidelines for the sale of Change Property, where appropriate, namely in a budgetary context. The proposal of the Progress Party that the properties can be effectively disposed of is in line with the policy of the Progress Party: they will have a different funding of the Defence. But the policy on which the majority has based is thus a significant sales income charge to the Defense through the properties disposed of, and then you also have to have a disposal policy that is proportionate to this sales order, and that gives us a good opportunity to take up under the government budget for the autumn.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17-2.ana.ud681e639	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17-2.ana.ud681e642	I agree with the representative of Arnstad that it is II and III that are really the important ones in this matter. A unanimous committee, and I assume a unanimous increase, asks the government to make a plan for installations that have public interest, and clear guidelines for the sale of the defence properties. Can the Council confirm that this work will be given top priority in the ministry and that the Stortinget will be properly instructed and planned?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17-2.ana.ud681e647	The replicator specifically addressed the proposals II and III. Proposal II asks for a review of the country's property to be disposed of, not only its Ministry of Defence but also its Ministry of Fisheries, its Ministry of Agriculture - there are a number of departments which have properties that affect the rights of all persons and the interests in the open air. That means, of course, that the government in some form has to come back to what is being demanded here, how the rights of all people can be guaranteed. The second proposal, proposal III, is on sale for the defence properties. Here, of course, I can commit myself more strongly to a time progress plan. My intention is that we should be very clear on this in St. pp. No 1st@item: I believe that we already have very clear guidelines, and that we have full access to ensuring the public through clauses, etc. But I also want to give the Storting the opportunity to change policies, if it is desirable, but then in accordance with the state budget, so that it becomes coherent.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17-2.ana.ud681e654	In my post, I came into and criticized the Workers' Party in particular, but I can also criticise the government parties in terms of this revision agreement, where there is added further sales of 50 million defence properties. kr. The Minister of Defence also came up with his statement here now. Then I almost have to ask the Minister of Defense, because she so strongly went into it: To what extent has this imposed, the sales income and the sales income imposed were leading to the Council of State in terms of the sale of this property? Similarly, I would also like to ask: Can she give any explanation as to whether or not she has committed an offence as to the extent to which she considers that she has made the decision in this case? Otherwise, I think it is very nice that the Council of State confirmed that she takes note of the decisions that are being made today, and that she will follow them properly.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17-2.ana.ud681e665	Of course, the representative Width has a good point when he sees a link between the sales order as both the budgetary agreement in December 2003 and the revised agreement now in June set against the Defence and Defence Building, where there is almost 300 million. kr in net income to be recovered from those sales. So this sale is going to help finance the defence structure that we have adopted. If not, these millions must be administered to the Defence, with the agreed structure, in an alternative way. So, of course, there's a clear relationship. That is why there are so clear decisions in the budget in December 2003 that the Ministry of Defence in 2004 can dispose of real estate, whatever its value, at market prices. It is in order to give the defense an opportunity to realise the sales order imposed, because we must either cut the defence structure drastically or take money from other communities and transfer it to the Ministry of Defence.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17-2.ana.ud681e672	According to question No. 88 to the Minister for the Environment of the Financial Committee of 7 June 2004 in the context of the revised budget, it is said that there was a routine warning to change property and the wish to sell the Eastern Farmers in January of this year, and that the Directorate for Nature Management on 28 January signalled an interest in a dialogue with Change Property, in view of the demarcation of a defined land area. However, it was clarified that the purchase of the building mass was not of interest, as it is not suitable for outdoor use. In addition, the Directorate does not operate with the management of building stock of that character. In their reply to the Directorate of Nature Management on 12 February 2004, Shifte Eiendom confirms that they want to sell it all together and assures that the interests of outdoor life were well safeguarded. The question is: was this known to the Council of State, the Minister of Defence, and was the Minister of Defence involved in this resolution? It was actually decided here that the Ministry of the Environment could not afford to buy the entire property within its budget framework.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17-2.ana.ud681e679	Here I would like to answer in general that in all matters that Change Property deals with, related to the sale of defence property, there has been very good contact between the Ministry of Defence and Change Property. That means that I have nothing to delay. As far as the Ministry of the Environment is concerned, I believe the Minister for the Environment confirmed in the hearing on Monday that there is no absolute requirement for public ownership in order to safeguard the interests of the environment and the public interest. A number of our important outdoor areas are privately owned. There's also an important point that Bjørklund has here, that environmental protection authorities had no interest in owning the building masses. I would like to remind the Committee that it is the buildings on the East that it has been most important for Brunstad Conference Centres to buy. It's just the buildings and their building value it's been important to get a market price on, because it actually costs to maintain the buildings. It's a commercial property. Therefore it was not relevant for the Ministry of the Environment to buy these, and therefore it was right to put them out for sale, as it was done.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17-2.ana.ud681e688	The cord shift is over. The speakers who have the floor hereafter shall have a speaking time of three minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17-2.ana.ud681e693	This is a joyous day for the public, by the fact that the Eastern Islands should still be in public ownership and not be left to private, as the Government had promised. It is also very good, and I would say absolutely necessary, that the guidelines are now being strengthened, so that the public, outdoors, cultural heritage and local and regional authorities must be taken into account hereafter when disposing of defence property. This was absolutely necessary because the Government of the Ministry of the Environment failed to buy this property for 14 million early this year. kr, which the department would have had the full opportunity to do if you wanted to. Also later, according to the Workers' Party's opinion, the Government showed a very poor judgment by selling to Smith's Friends, especially when the difference in bids from the Westfold County Municipality and Smith's Friends was 2.5 million. kr. It is with respect to report that it is not the 2.5 million we age the defence budget with. There's a difference between defence properties. Some can obviously be sold at the highest price, but in the case of others, one has to take different considerations, including: to people's access. We are therefore very pleased that it also seems to be a broad majority that the Government now has to make a plan, carry out a review of the state's properties, so that they are taken care of also for the public, where appropriate. Our beach zone is already very populated, especially along the Oslofjord and down to the Swedish border, and it is thus largely inaccessible to most people. Then at least we have to be able to take care of the coastal pearls we have in public ownership, and make sure that they remain in public ownership, so that people can use the coastal pearls and bathe, sunbathe, walk or whatever they want. They should and should, in the view of the Labour Party, be the property of the people and not belong to private persons. That is why we are very pleased today that the Eastern Islands will be publicly owned, as we proposed, because it plays a role who owns. I would also say that this I don't think we would have done if not many thousand had stood up and fought for the Eastern Islands to be in public ownership. I also think that we owe them a great deal of thanks. Then I also want to comment that there are so many other islands there that are accessible to most people. I've been there and seen, like several others who are here in the hall, and so it's the Eastern Poles that are the inner fillet, which is the island that should be accessible to most people. Many of the other islands that this is about, and which you claim are accessible to most people, are hollows and cuts. That's not where people want to add. This is the case. I am pleased that this sale was now refurbished, and that we also have clear guidelines for other properties for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17-2.ana.ud681e710	Some people think that people are not concerned with politics. The Bolärne case is an example of their being wrong. People are concerned with politics when they touch them, and they become especially engaged when they feel that they are not heard where the decisions are taken. The battle over the East Poles has mobilized people in Westfold and elsewhere in the country for a formidable effort to preserve one of the pearls in the Oslo Earth. It was fantastic to get out to the island in the Bellona boat on June 6th and see how many boats and people had met up. There were more boats on the sea this Sunday than it is on St. Hans, and St. Hans is special in Westfold. People were ready to fight, they were fighting, and it was obvious that they wouldn't give up. Now people have rid themselves of the victory, and that's fantastic. Never have so many people been able to name a country rapporteur. I will quote the Vice-President of the Right on Nøtterøy, Erik Holmelin. He said, "Nøtterøy Municipality has bought islands in the archipelago for many years, with the support of the Ministry of Environment. We are not selling islands here. That's why the one-off attitude down here is that "someone has raped our eye--we want it back." He also said, "If the sale is not reversed, we will experience a political contempt that surpasses most." People in Westfold didn't think it was true when they found out that they had bought the East Poles. When it became known that the private buyer was Smith's friends, people were even more surprised. The shock was enormous when they realized that a few lousy millions decided the matter. They had not thought that small money would determine the west folds' access to the beach zone. It was said that public access was ensured through clauses. But no one who has grown up in Westfold believed anything that the sale to Smith's friends would not affect the western folds' access to the area. Smith's friends tend to gather many thousand members at Brunstad in the municipality where I grew up, and west folds, like the Nordics most, are largely concerned about protecting privacy. They didn't want to feel like intruders. Smith's friends have been much more constructive in this matter than the Government. In addition, this was also about something more than just ensuring public access to the island itself and the areas along the beach. This was also about visions from the county council, about making the island a place of assembly, using the buildings that stand there, and creating a cooperation project between different actors that will help make the Eastern Islands a lifeblood in the Vestfold Archipelago. In a way, it's good that the government has dealt with this matter as it did, because it means that the awareness of the problem has grown. People come with me. Maybe we can prevent other pearls from being sold away later. It is very good that the Workers' Party made sure that the money that was going to buy free space was put back in the budget when they made a settlement. But the cut off by the government gave a hint about what we can expect later. It is important to tighten up the guidelines now, and it is good that the Committee supports this. SV hopes that the committee will take another step further.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17-2.ana.ud681e734	The Party is committed to placing greater emphasis on the public interest criteria when disposing of the property of the defence than is described in the current Disposal Instructions. Therefore, we believe it is important that the defence maintains good contact with the local environments where the defence has and has had activity. Defence is well served by the fact that the community and the public in general feel that defence contributes to a strengthening of the community. We are aware that municipalities and county councils have limited funds to secure interesting properties from the Defence, when they have to be purchased at market price or at price. The Party considers that strong local interests should be safeguarded as far as possible when the defence properties are disposed of. It can be found that for the population it seems strange that when a public authority has a property that it does not need, while another public authority has a very important purpose for which the property can be used, but has poor advice, it is therefore not possible to transfer the property only from the disposal authority to the needy. It is the taxpayers who have paid for the property and when it can be used for a reasonable social purpose, the current disposal system is an obstacle to common sense, namely the free transfer of property between public authorities. Therefore, as the Party considers, new guidelines should be adopted so that the Defence does not receive sales income for properties disposed of by Change Property, because the Defence is to be fully financed from the State budget, irrespective of sales income from properties transferred to Change Property. We will also point out the problems many communities face when defence activities are terminated. Therefore, it is also reasonable that these can be provided with some form of compensation through transfer of property as long as they can be used for social, public purposes. When the change of ownership and senior authorities takes decisions on the free transfer of properties for a specific purpose, it is important that the transfer is made subject to a clause for that purpose, in order to restore the property if that purpose ceases to exist. It should therefore not be possible to transfer a property sold to others after a few years. That is why, as mentioned earlier, the Progress Party is promoting proposals to this effect.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17-2.ana.ud681e747	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 23rd Last@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 3496]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17-2.ana.ud681e762	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 3497]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17-2.ana.ud681e777	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 3498]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17-2.ana.ud681e792	No one has asked for the word [[Fotation, see page 3498]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17-2.ana.ud681e808	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 3498]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17-2.ana.ud681e823	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 3498]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17-2.ana.ud681e842	No one has asked for the floor. [[Votation, see pages 3498 and 3501]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17-2.ana.ud681e857	No one has asked for the floor. [[The sitting was closed at 7.30 p.m. and resumed at 5.30 p.m.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17-2.ana.ud681e872	I hope that for the sake of simplicity, I can make a comment both on case no. 31 and case No. Thirty-two. For the sake of order, as regards the proposal in case No. 31. I just want to make it clear that the Central Party refers to today's current law on Santa Claus. The party at the centre does not consider it appropriate that this proposal should apply to the law currently in force with effect from 1 January 2005 - only as it has been said in connection with the proposal. Other: with regard to the proposal in case No. 32, on the basis of the signals from the Council of State in Odelstinget that one would go through this question more closely, I would ask that that proposal be converted into a transmission proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17-2.ana.ud681e881	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 31. [[The sitting was closed at 7.30 p.m. and resumed at 5.30 p.m.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17-2.ana.ud681e896	The representative, Marit Arnstad, has proposed to turn this into a transmission proposal. [[The sitting was closed at 7.30 p.m. and resumed at 5.30 p.m.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17-2.ana.ud681e911	No one has asked for the floor. Case No. 34 and 35 have already been dealt with. [[The sitting was closed at 7.30 p.m. and resumed at 5.30 p.m.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17-2.ana.ud681e926	We are going to vote in the cases that are listed on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17-2.ana.ud681e947	In the course of the debate, 18 proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1-3, from Ivar Østberg on behalf of the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party proposal No. 4, by Per Sandberg on behalf of the Progressive Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, proposal No. 5, from Reidar Sandal on behalf of the Workers' Party, proposals No. 6-8, by Karin Andersen on behalf of the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party, the proposals No. 9,10 and 16-18, by Per Sandberg on behalf of the Progress Party, proposals Nos. 11-13, by Karin Andersen, on behalf of the Socialist Left, proposal No. 14, by Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa on behalf of the Centre Party, proposal No. 15, by Karin Andersen on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party The proposals are included on pages 57 and 58 of the vote, with the exception of no. 15-18, which is distributed in the seats of the representatives in the hall. First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 14 from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: "The total income of the local government sector shall be 6,5-7 billion. for 2005.The growth rate in the local government sector shall be 4,45 to 5,2 billion. 2005 crowns."
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17-2.ana.ud681e987	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 11-13, from the Socialist Left Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17-2.ana.ud681e1019	There is a vote on proposal No. 9, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: "The government is asking the government to draw up proposals on how local democracy can develop, and the inhabitants of the different municipalities will be given increased incentives to participate in local policy. Including this, the Government is asked to present a comprehensive plan on how the municipalities will have access to planning and land matters within their own municipal boundaries." The coastal party has announced their support for this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17-2.ana.ud681e1036	The proposals are then put to the vote. 10 and 16, from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17-2.ana.ud681e1060	Proposal No. 18, from the Progress Party, has been converted into a transmission proposal. The proposal is amended as follows: "It is recommended that the Government assess non-discrimination and include the 14-municipal group in the compensation scheme for new employers' contributions. The government is asked to submit proposals in the municipality's 2006 proposal."
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17-2.ana.ud681e1085	I think there are some people who have voted wrong here. The President then understands that the proposal was accepted by 54 votes to 44. The proposals are then put to the vote. 6, 7 and 8 from the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17-2.ana.ud681e1119	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 5, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17-2.ana.ud681e1136	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 4, from the Progress Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party. The proposal reads as follows: "The decision asks the Government to grant freer municipal tax rights and come to Stortinget with such an investigation, at the latest together with the submission of the municipal bill for 2006.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17-2.ana.ud681e1151	There is a vote on proposal No. 15, from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: "The Government of the State budget for 2005 is asked to ensure that detected errors in technical vocational schools in framework grants for county municipalities in 2004 are corrected so that both extractions and guest rates become correct."
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17-2.ana.ud681e1166	The proposals are then put to the vote. 1, 2 and 3, from the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17-2.ana.ud681e1226	The President expects the Right Party, the Christian Party and the Left to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17-2.ana.ud681e1285	The President expects the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17-2.ana.ud681e1300	A vote shall be taken on the proposal by Mr Per Sandberg, on behalf of the Party for Progress, submitted by the meeting of the Odelsting on 10 June 2004: "The government asks the government to promote its own case for the Storting, where the settlement of refugees and asylum seekers is assessed in the context."
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17-2.ana.ud681e1318	A vote shall be taken on the proposal by Mr Per Sandberg, on behalf of the Party for Progress, submitted by the meeting of the Odelsting on 10 June 2004: "The decision asks the Government to investigate the consequences of repealing Section 12 of the Foreign Affairs Act on a residence permit."
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17-2.ana.ud681e1336	A vote is taken on the proposal by Mr Heikki Holmås on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, submitted by Mr Odelstinget's meeting on 10 June 2004: "The government is asking for a permanent arrangement where a voluntary organisation is responsible for information and offers of individual conversations with asylum seekers after arrival."
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17-2.ana.ud681e1354	A vote is taken on the proposal by Mr Heikki Holmås, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, submitted by Mr Odelstinget’s meeting on 10 June 2004: "The ruling also asks the Government to maintain today's system of three hours free court of first instance proceedings, but with a differentiation so that the assumed groundless cases are given two hours free of trial. The lawyer shall be awarded locally upon arrival at reception."
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17-2.ana.ud681e1372	A vote is taken on the proposal by Mr Heikki Holmås on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, submitted by Mr Odelstinget's meeting on 10 June 2004: "The Government is asking for action to be taken to give persons with defined Dublin II cases 3 hours free of charge in the appeal proceedings."
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17-2.ana.ud681e1390	There is a vote on proposals submitted by the Odelstinget meeting on 10 June 2004: "The decision asks the Government to investigate and amend the legislation as soon as possible so that it is a condition for family reunification to Norway that the woman is guaranteed equal to the right to divorce in the marriage contract."
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17-2.ana.ud681e1406	There is a vote on proposals submitted by the Odelstinget meeting on 10 June 2004: "The decision suspends the request decision No. 612 of 19 June 2003."
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17-2.ana.ud681e1423	There is a vote on proposals submitted by the Odelstinget meeting on 10 June 2004: "The Grand Duchy asks the Government to examine whether the courts, and not the Directorate of Foreign Affairs, shall take decisions on expulsion in cases where offences of criminal law require a final judgment in the courts." The Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party are behind the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17-2.ana.ud681e1443	There is a vote on proposals submitted by the Odelstinget meeting on 10 June 2004: "The government is asking the Government to set aside increased resources related to the provision of individual guidance related to issues that may include gender-related persecution." The Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party are behind the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17-2.ana.ud681e1463	In the course of the debate, 38 proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1-4, from Vidar Bjørnstad on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, proposals No. 5 and 6, by Vidar Bjørnstad on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party, 7-31, by Arne Sortevik, on behalf of the Progress Party and the representative Jan Simonsen, on the proposals No. 32-35, by Rolf Reikvam, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, and the Central Party, on the proposals No. 36 and 37, by Rolf Rekvam, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, proposal No. 38, from the Rune J. Skjellaaen on behalf of the Center Party
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17-2.ana.ud681e1506	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 32, 34 and 35, from the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party. Proposal No. 32 sounds: "The secondary exam will be to maintain in primary and secondary schools as long as one uses the examination in primary subjects."
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17-2.ana.ud681e1533	President! I voted wrong. I should have voted in favour.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17-2.ana.ud681e1540	In this way, the proposals of the Socialist Left and the Centre by 78 votes to 21 have not been accepted. It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 33, from the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: "The Government asks that the information provided by national samples be based only on a statistically representative sample of pupils."
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17-2.ana.ud681e1557	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 7, 8, 9, 10, 12, 16, 17, 19, 20, 21, 22, 27, 28 and 31, from the Progress Party and the representative Jan Simonsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17-2.ana.ud681e1656	The proposals are then put to the vote. 11, 13, 14, 15, 18, 23, 24, 25, 26, 29 and 30, from the Progress Party and the representative Jan Simonsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17-2.ana.ud681e1737	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 5 and 6 from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17-2.ana.ud681e1761	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1, 2, 3 and 4, from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17-2.ana.ud681e1813	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 38, from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: "The Government asks the Government to submit proposals to amend Section 3-1 of the Training Act in order to give applicants the right to take up one of the two education programmes they have prioritised." The Labour Party and the Socialist Left have announced that they will support this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17-2.ana.ud681e1841	The President assumes that the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17-2.ana.ud681e1884	The vote will take place on the proposal by Mr Arne Sortevik, on behalf of the Party of Advancement and the representative of Mr Jan Simonsen, sent from the meeting of Mr Odelstinget on 10 June 2004. [[(see section 4.4). Deep. O. No 92):]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17-2.ana.ud681e1902	The vote will take place on a proposal from the representative of the Grandfather Eva M. Nielsen, on behalf of the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, transmitted from the meeting of the Odelstinget on 10 June 2004. [[(see section 4.4). Deep. O. No 82):]] The Progress Party has warned that they support this proposal in a subsidiary way.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17-2.ana.ud681e1924	The vote will take place on the proposal by Mr Arne Sortevik, on behalf of the Party of Advancement and the representative of Mr Jan Simonsen, sent from the meeting of Mr Odelstinget on 10 June 2004. [[(see section 4.4). Deep. O. No 82):]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17-2.ana.ud681e1942	There is a vote on proposals submitted by the Odelstinget meeting on 10 June 2004: "The government is asking the government to carry out an overall review and evaluation of the practice of using police statements in the education sector, in the light of the research available on sexual abuse against children. The majority asks the Government to come back with a broad assessment of how the system of police attestations in the education sector should be designed in the future, also in the context of the use of police certificates in other fields of service."
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17-2.ana.ud681e1957	During the debate, Eva M. Nielsen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party. The proposal reads as follows: "Safety training for fishermen is maintained and continued in its current form." Alternatively, this proposal and the referral by the Committee shall be voted on. The Committee had ceased: The Government asks the Government to present its own case on the future organisation and financing of the security training of fishermen in the context of the 2005 state budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17-2.ana.ud681e2260	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No I, by Mr T. Nesvik, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 2, from Olav Gunnar Ballo on behalf of the Socialist Left Party First of all, there is a vote on the proposal from the Socialist Left. The proposal reads as follows: "In the social security policy, the second sentence of the third subparagraph shall be replaced by the following: For the purpose of the regulation, the expected income development of wage earners shall be the total during the regulatory year as revealed by the Government in its proposal to the Revised National Budget, after adjusting the basic amount of the difference between the expected and the actual wage increase in the last year."
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17-2.ana.ud681e2286	It will then be replaced by an alternative between proposal No. 1 by the Progress Party and the Committee's position. Proposal No. 1 sounds: "The amount of public money is set at NOK 58 945 with effect from 1 May 2004. Chapter.ObjectivesCrones660 000budgetsbudgetsbudgetsbudgetsbudgetsbudgetsbudgetsbudgetsbudgetsbudgetsbudgetsbudgetsbudgetsbudgetsbudgetsbudgetsbudgetsbudgetsbudgetsbudgetsbudgetsbudgetsbudgetsbudgetsbudgetsbudgetsbudgetsbudgetsbudgetsbudgetsbudgetsbudgetsbudgetsbudgetsbudgetsbudgetsbudgetsbudgetsbudgetsbudgetsbudgetsbudgetsbudgetsbudgetsbudgetsbudgetsbudgetsbudgetsbudgetsbudgetsbudgetsbudgetsbudgetsbudget,budgetsbudgetsbudgetsbudgetsbudgetsbudgetsbudgetsbudgetsbudgetsbudgetsbudgetsbudgetsbudgetsbudgetsbudgetsbudgetsbudgetsbudgetsbudgetsbudgetsbudgetsbudgetsbudgetsbudgetsbudgetsbudgesbudgetsbudgetsbudgetsbudgetsbudgetsbudgetsbudgesbudgetsbudgesbudgesbudgesbudgetsc,c,csbudgetsbudgetstsbudgesbouting,budgesbudgesbudgesbudgesbudgetsbudgetsbouting,csbudgetsbouting,c,c,c,c,c,c,c,c,c,c,c,c,c,c,c,c,c,c,c,c,sbudgetsbudgetsbudgetsc,sbudgetsc,c,c,budgetsbudgetsc,c,b
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17-2.ana.ud681e3281	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Kjetil Bjørklund on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, proposals No. 2 and 3, by Per Ove Width, on behalf of the Party of Advancement First of all, there is the vote on the motions for resolutions. 2 and 3 from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17-2.ana.ud681e3324	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 1, from the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: "The Government asks the Government to make Chapter 1.3 of the Disposal File on transfers between state institutions free of charge for the disposal of the property of the Defence." The Progress Party has announced subsidized support for this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17-2.ana.ud681e3372	There is a vote on proposals submitted by the Odelstinget meeting on 14 June 2004: "The government is asking for proposals for the partial financing of injection rooms in the context of the 2005 State budget, where the State share is at least half the cost of setting up and operating injection rooms." The Labour Party, the Advance Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party are behind the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17-2.ana.ud681e3389	The centre party should have voted against the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17-2.ana.ud681e3396	Then I regret that I misinformed the group of the Center Party. So we're going to vote again. The Labour Party, the Advance Party and the Socialist Left are behind the proposal. During the roll-over it turned out to be a technical defect with the wetting system.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17-2.ana.ud681e3405	Let's take a little break. The meeting was cancelled at 9.00 p.m. 20.29. -------------- The meeting resumed its negotiations at 9 a.m. 20.42.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17-2.ana.ud681e3414	So we had come to Case No. 24, where we're going to do another try. The majority shall vote on proposals submitted by the Odelstinget meeting on 14 June 2004. The proposal reads as follows: "The government is asking for proposals for the partial financing of injection rooms in the context of the 2005 State budget, where the State share is at least half the cost of setting up and operating injection rooms." The Labour Party, the Advance Party and the Socialist Left are behind the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17-2.ana.ud681e3434	There is a vote on proposals submitted by the Odelstinget meeting on 14 June 2004: "The decision asks the Government to be properly briefed on the regulations on injection rooms before they enter into force." The Labour Party, the Advance Party and the Socialist Left are behind the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17-2.ana.ud681e3454	There is a vote on proposals submitted by the Odelstinget meeting on 14 June 2004: "The Government is asking for the necessary legislative and regulatory changes to be put in place to enable injection rooms to be used from 1 January 2005." The Labour Party, the Advance Party and the Socialist Left are behind the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17-2.ana.ud681e3474	The vote will take place on the proposal of Mr André Kvakkestad, representing the Group of the Party of European Socialists, submitted by the meeting of Mr Odelstinget on 15 June 2004: "The government asks the government to consider alternative measures to remedy the situation of those who have had such a large impact on the changes in the fixation fee that they have problems keeping their own housing."
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17-2.ana.ud681e3492	There is a vote on the proposal by André Kvakkestad, on behalf of the Progress Party, submitted by the Odelstinget meeting on 15 June 2004: "The Government is asked to go through the law and promote the necessary proposals so that the word "fixed fee" can be replaced by the word "rental" in all regulations." The centre party has said that they support this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17-2.ana.ud681e3512	There is a vote on the proposal by André Kvakkestad, on behalf of the Progress Party, submitted by the Odelstinget meeting on 15 June 2004: "With reference to the Basic Law § 83, Stortinget Höjesterett asks for a consideration of the following in relation to the Basic Law § 97 and 105: 2nd@item: inlistbox Would it be contrary to the Basic Law to introduce a right for parties to be able to demand the redemption of the fastener without the agreement of the landowner in relation to existing fasteners?3. Would it be contrary to the Basic Law if any redemption sum were to be legalised to a certain number of times the fixation fee without an individual price fixing in which other conditions are also weighted?" Here too, the Central Party has announced its support for the proposals of the Progress Party. Attempts were made to wrestle using the wetting plant.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17-2.ana.ud681e3529	It turns out that the watering system once again fails. The President therefore proposes that the remaining voting rights - that is, the case No. 29-35 - postponed for tomorrow's meeting. 10th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-17-2.ana.ud681e3540	There is no record.
