ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-05.ana.ud155e28	An application for sick leave has been submitted to the representative of Ursula Evje from 5 May onwards. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and the Vara representative, Harald Espelund, shall be convened to meet during the period of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-05.ana.ud155e46	Harald Espelund is present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-05.ana.ud155e51	The President will propose the election of two presidents for the Stortingen meeting this week – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-05.ana.ud155e56	I suggest Finn Martin Vallersnes and Øyvind Halleraker.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-05.ana.ud155e61	Finn Martin Vallersnes and Øyvind Halleraker are proposed as presidents. – Other proposals are not available, and Finn Martin Vallersnes and Øyvind Halleraker are unanimously elected presidents of Stortinget’s remaining meetings this week. The representative Per Erik Monsen will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-05.ana.ud155e66	On behalf of Gjermund Hagesetter, Ulf Erik Knudsen, Karin S. Woldseth and myself, I would like to put forward proposals for equal treatment of the weekly press and the daily press with regard to VAT.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-05.ana.ud155e71	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-05.ana.ud155e94	On Monday the Stortingen received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the following members of the Government would meet for oral Question Time: Prime Minister Kjell Magne Bondevik State Council Børge Brende The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, wish to ask themselves the main questions asked. – We then start with the first main questions, from the representative Jens Stoltenberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-05.ana.ud155e110	I want to ask the Prime Minister a question. In previous Questionnaires, the Minister of Finance has answered very evasively, and in part refused to answer, a number of key questions regarding welfare and taxation. The government has submitted a tax return that is double unsocial. There will be many billions of dollars less for pensions, for school, for care for the elderly, and in addition, the relief will mean that the richest will get the most – they will get much, much more than those with low incomes. It is not new that the Right Party and the Progressive Party stand for an unsocial tax policy. But it's new that as a center party, the Christian People's Party is now defending tax reliefs that go beyond old age care, beyond retirement, beyond other important welfare purposes, because you get less money in the common fund, which is just going to finance these things. My question to the Prime Minister is whether he is comfortable now defending a policy he used to be opposed to, with extensive tax relief – much more than the Christian People's Party has ever been in favour of, and which means that there will be little money, among other things. to care for the elderly.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-05.ana.ud155e121	Of course, the Prime Minister and a government party defend the policy that the Government has put forward, and we do so because it is completely different from the one that the representative Stoltenberg makes. We have provided a tax return that corrects the greatest injustice in today's tax system, namely the low tax on them with large capital incomes and the much higher tax on them with similar employee incomes. It's the great social injustice of today's tax system. This government is doing something about it. I sometimes wonder, when I hear the representative Stoltenberg, whether the Workers' Party has intended to do something about this great social injustice. With regard to the scope of tax relief with which we believe it is necessary to lubricate such a reform, and it will come over a few years, it is about at the level of the scope proposed by the Labour Party Government in 1992 in terms of tax relief compared to the overall tax base. There's a microscopic difference. The Christian People's Party stands for a policy that means the creation of the greatest social injustice in the tax system. We stand for a tax policy that we believe will stimulate businesses and business and thus provide increased incomes for well-being in the years to come. The Labour Party has been involved, I think, two-thirds of the tax relief we have so far given in this big time period. It is therefore very difficult to understand the tax policy of the Workers' Party. Sometimes they are too significant tax reliefs, sometimes they are violent, so it is difficult to find a line in the Labour Party's tax policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-05.ana.ud155e132	I hardly asked if the Prime Minister defended the government's policy, because of course he should. But I asked him if he was comfortable defending something he had previously been a strong opponent of – such extensive tax reliefs. At the latest in the previous election campaign, Kjell Magne Bondevik strongly warned against tax relief in the order of magnitude that the government is now in, because, according to him, it would go down on retirement, care for the elderly, school and other important tasks. It is quite right that it is a great injustice that the tax on capital has been much lower than the tax on labour. But it was this government that started by increasing that injustice, by removing the dividend tax. It is good that you now add that to reintroduce it. The problem is that one spends $12 billion on distributing tax reliefs, mostly to those who have the most from before, so that the benefit of dividends tax is more than eaten up by spending billions of dollars in an unsocial way in tax reform. In addition, there is another problem with tax reform, and that is to do something with the means of income, but it is drawn by cutting a wide range of common deductions, such as: the trade-union deduction.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-05.ana.ud155e141	The misrepresentation of the tax message by Stoltenberg will not be correct if he repeats it at that time. And the mantra about those that have the most from before, we've heard many times. That's not going to be right enough for that reason. Those who already have the most are those with large capital incomes, and they actually intend to take more taxes from the Cooperative Government. Nor is it right that we reintroduce the dividend tax that was before. We introduce another form of dividend tax, which is more effective and better, because it does not tax capital that goes back to the company. So this is a right profile, and it's a company-friendly profile. When the Workers' Party operates its agitation against the Government's arrangements, they ask for calculations from the Ministry of Finance and do not ask for calculations on what will result from the profile of introducing bottom deductions, as the Government has actually said it has done. So those tables the Labour Party has waved with the last few days, are totally misleading from the policy that the Government is actually in favour of. We want increased deductions, because it's going to give a good social profile. The working party is ordering competent tables without such increased deductions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-05.ana.ud155e150	There will be four follow-up questions – first Carl I. Hagen.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-05.ana.ud155e153	Let me first correct the representative of Stoltenberg, who, in his production, took with the Advance Party in a wrong way. We have always spent the most money to give tax relief to them with small and medium incomes. In the agreement with the Cooperative Government, we used a billion dollars for a lower tax for those with small and medium incomes, not for those with high incomes. I would like to ask the Prime Minister why the Government in the Communication has not explained what deductions you want to actually reduce or remove, so that you can see in sum both the benefits, i.e. the tax reliefs, and the disadvantages, the removal of deductions. The message is not very informative about this, and then you can trick people by just bringing the pieces. The other applies to the taxes on wealth. If you can't remove it, which should be done immediately, wouldn't it be more sensible to remove taxes on working capital in the form of machinery, equipment, buildings, as many people have to borrow to pay this property tax? Would it not be more sensible to remove taxes on working capital in enterprises in order to secure jobs?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-05.ana.ud155e162	When it is not explained in detail which deductions we would like to keep and, if necessary, remove, it is because this tax communication is about the principles of a new tax system, not the individual deduction or tax rate in detail. The main principle is equal to taxation of capital income and employee income, which is today the great social injustice. This is something that the Cooperation Administration is now doing. We introduce some kind of dividend tax and warn of a drop-down in order to remove the property tax, because it is gradually a special-purpose tax that makes investments easily attracted to the rest of the world rather than to Norwegian jobs. It also belongs in the picture, as far as I remember, that Norwegian pensioners today pay 40 pst. of property taxes income. It will therefore greatly help the pensioners to remove this. We've been working on a model where you just remove it on working capital, but it's explained in the notice why we've come to the conclusion that it's going to be a hard-to-practice arrangement.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-05.ana.ud155e172	Øystein Djupedal – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-05.ana.ud155e175	I notice that the Prime Minister and also the Minister of Finance call this tax reform fair. There's going to be some sort of orwellish novelty, for something more unfair than what's in this tax release, it's probably hardly possible to imagine! From the answer we received yesterday from the Ministry of Finance, it is quite clear that the richest percentage of the Norwegian people, that is, the small percentage that makes the most of money, is getting a relief in the property tax of NOK 45,900, and they are getting a relief in the top tax of over NOK 31,000, while those on the opposite side of the income scale are barely getting tax relief. If this is fair, I have to say that the Prime Minister and I have a slightly different view of what justice is. In addition, it is just like the previous questioners have been asking, that you choose not to say what deductions you should remove. Clearly, if you're going to say how much tax relief you're going to give, you're going to have to say what deductions are going to be removed for the normal man and woman. Let me challenge the Prime Minister quite specifically, because this was not clear to the Minister of Finance in the previous Question Time: does it mean that the Prime Minister will now be quite clear that the deduction for the elderly and the disabled will consist, that the deduction for the trade union will remain, and that the deduction for the commuter will be – three deductions that the ordinary man and woman will benefit very much from?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-05.ana.ud155e184	As I have said, we do not intend to go into the tax notice specifically on the individual deduction, except that we have referred to deductions that have a priority position according to the Sem declaration. Of course, if the parties wish to address each individual deduction rather than the annual budgetary procedure, it is clear that the parties are free to do so. But this is primarily about principles for the conversion of a tax system that corrects the greatest injustice in today’s system – the relationship between those who have high capital incomes and those who have employee incomes. Then, of course, Djupedal cannot call this the most unfair tax message that has ever been provided. It corrects the greatest injustice in today's tax system. If we're going to do that, we both have to introduce a dividend tax and reduce marginal tax somewhat. And if a marginal tax reduces something, yeah, then a marginal tax reduces something. The working party entered in 1992 so that it should be on the lower edge of 50 pst. We are now seeking to bring it back to where the Workers' Party wanted it. So let's substitute bottom subtraction, minimum subtraction, so this is going to get a good social profile.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-05.ana.ud155e189	Hill-Marta Solberg – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-05.ana.ud155e192	I notice that the Prime Minister is a fossil when it comes to the issues related to the deductions to be cut in the tax system. I have to ask for confirmation. Is it not true when the tax notice states that the Government’s tax bill of DKK 12 billion implies the removal of a deduction of DKK 6 billion? There's a minimum subtraction, but there's an equal amount of cut in other deductions. It goes into it. This is what I call giving with one hand and taking with the other, and then it makes no sense that the Prime Minister is standing here and saying that the Workers' Party is waving tables that they have almost made up themselves. We have received a response from the Ministry of Finance, which documents serious injustices in terms of the tax relief to be distributed. If you earn 250,000 kroner, you might get $1,800 in taxes. If you earn over NOK 700,000, you get over NOK 35,000 in tax bills. This is what the Prime Minister calls fair!
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-05.ana.ud155e199	Explaining and defending the message we have given is not at all prossro. We have deliberately not chosen to go into the individual deduction, because this is a system change. The Labour Party has always thought that a person should have some reorganisation and simplification of deductions because it complicates the tax system. It would be interesting to know if the Workers' Party is now fossils away from its previous position on that point. In the case of the trade union deduction, it is important as part of income policy cooperation. Under my government, we have actually increased the trade union deduction to NOK 1800 as part of an income policy cooperation. It says a little bit about the meaning we put in it. It is true that the Workers' Party has received answers to questions they have asked the Ministry. But it's known that as you call in the woods, you get answers. When the Workers' Party shouts for a table without an increase in the bottom deduction, they get an answer to what they are asking for. But the government does not intend to make such a proposal without increased deductions. We're going to go into increased deductions, because we want a social tax profile. So what the Workers' Party is doing is fanning with misleading tables.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-05.ana.ud155e208	This must be an obvious misunderstanding. [[President clubs]] It was this Prime Minister who first lowered the trade union deduction.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-05.ana.ud155e213	There's no way to solve misunderstandings. Morten Lund - to the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-05.ana.ud155e218	The government proposes NOK 15 billion in reduced taxes to people, of which NOK 9 billion are top taxes. The government says nothing in the message about where in the Norway Map the tax reliefs are going, and the Senter party has asked about it. The government says they can't answer that. On 23 May 1995, the Stortinget decided that the Government should present impact assessments when implementing important district policies. I think it is very strange that as big a change as this – which will obviously lead to great economic differences – is not really investigated, and that the Government will not answer such a question. It is obvious that there are so few in Finnmark who have high incomes, that they are going to lose in relation to Oslo and Akershus. Does the Prime Minister not consider it reasonable that the Government should be able to answer questions and that the impact of the now submitted tax relief communication on district policy will also be investigated?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-05.ana.ud155e225	I think the Ministry of Finance, who gets the different questions, is doing the best they can to find answers to the questions that are being asked. But a tax system must be created primarily to stimulate the economy, create jobs and work socially fairly. With regard to rural policy, we have a number of instruments, not least towards Finnmark, through the action zone for which the current government parties have been strongly involved, including: with a zero zone for the employer’s fee, which is a major benefit to the business community in these strokes. If we are to get this similarity in terms of taxes on capital income and earnings, both introduce a dividend tax and reduce marginal taxes, i.e. top taxes. If the Center Party is opposed to equalising this difference, which is the greatest social injustice in today's system, then we just have to establish it. However, if the difference is to be balanced, the instruments needed must be used — and there is both a dividend tax and a reduced marginal tax.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-05.ana.ud155e234	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-05.ana.ud155e238	I have a question for the Prime Minister. What advice will he give to the Norwegian Church regarding church buildings that are not well maintained? Sogneprist Einar Gelius, former State Secretary of a Workers' Party government, has said that it is completely curative and easy to convert churches into mosques. I would like to ask what advice the Prime Minister will give to those who might consider making some changes with their churches, and whether he supports this – what I do not. I don't think it should be acceptable or permissible for Norwegian churches that have perhaps been church buildings for centuries, and that mean a lot to the Norwegian Christian cultural heritage, to become god houses in another religion. Does the Prime Minister agree with this? Is he willing to do something to make a national effort to provide the necessary maintenance, especially by the most important churches?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-05.ana.ud155e245	As you know, church building is a municipal responsibility. The government has respect for it, not least we have respect for the independence of the Norwegian Church. On the part of the Government, we have neither adopted nor initiated the demolition nor the closure of church buildings, but I note that in church circles there is a debate on this issue – probably not because we have too many churches, but unfortunately we have a good number of churches that are misplaced in relation to today's population structure. In some places we have too few churches compared to where people live today. With regard to the possible conversion of the use of churches, there is one thing we actually leave to the Church itself and to the municipalities as church owners. We are not among those who see the need to give the Norwegian Church a lot of advice – as I understand the Advance Party does. We probably have greater respect for the independence of the Norwegian Church. Personally, I don't think turning a church into a mosque is the most natural thing when the church itself can't use the church buildings anymore. I think it would be other purposes that were more natural. But this I actually have full confidence that the Norwegian Church will be able to handle quite well by itself, without Carl I. Hagen or I going to stand on the floor of the Storting and give them advice.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-05.ana.ud155e252	I must say I'm amazed at the Prime Minister's position. There are a wide range of tasks left to Norwegian municipalities, on which the Prime Minister and the Government often have views. In fact, we have many debates in Stortinget, for example. on care for the elderly, which really belongs to the community sector. In particular, regarding church buildings and the relationship with the Church, I thought the Prime Minister had a more offensive attitude. It has been that the Christian People's Party has put in place rules to help mission organizations to convert Muslims into Christian faith, whereas one really has no idea whether Norwegian churches should be transformed into mosques, other than the passive 'it will not be natural'. I think it would be nice if the Prime Minister could actually agree with the Advancement Party that it must be a national task to ensure that this is not a discussion theme, at least have the view that it is not desirable or acceptable to convert Norwegian churches into mosques.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-05.ana.ud155e259	There's probably a need to go up some basic boundaries with the representative Carl I. Hagen, because he compares the care of the elderly with church communities. Parental care is a public task. The Norwegian Church is a religious community. Of course, one should have a completely different respect for the right of self-determination of a religious community than for what we do in the care of the elderly. I hope Carl I. Hagen at a closer look sees the clear difference. Mission organisations are voluntary. Voluntary work is supported, without interfering with the operation of the mission organisations. With regard to attitudes towards re-use or other use of church buildings, it is the task of the Church and municipal politicians. I believe, and feel quite confident, that the municipal politicians of the Christian People's Party will be negative to and oppose the conversion of churches into mosques.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-05.ana.ud155e268	There will be three follow-up questions – first Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-05.ana.ud155e271	Last year, the cathedral in Prime Minister Bondevik's hometown, Molde, was in danger of being shut down because of economic problems. Bishop Bondevik then assigned the responsibility unambiguously to the Government and its non-allocation to the municipal sector. The current year, the Workers' Party increased the municipal economy by NOK 2 billion compared to the government's plans. Furthermore, it is clear that municipalities have significant financial problems. When will the Government take it upon itself that the welfare provision of the municipalities, the welfare offer of this society, as well as the financial position of the churches depend entirely on strengthening the economy of the municipal sector? And when will the Government recognize that it is important to prioritize welfare, municipalities, and with it also churches, instead of giving additional billions in tax bills, most to those who earn the most?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-05.ana.ud155e280	I understand that the representative Schjøtt-Pedersen has learned the mantra, which is still just as wrong as before. But back to the local economy: this government produced the highest increase in municipal income in many years, also higher than in the years when Karl Eirik Schjødt-Pedersen was in government. We have a good conscience for that. It has turned out that not only is the Mold Cathedral still open – I feared otherwise that it would not be so – but in addition, it is now also started to polish it. The representative Schjøtt-Pedersen is warmly welcome, as he is so concerned with these church questions, when it is finished. So the municipality now thinks it can afford it. Of course I'm happy about that. The government will continue to focus on strengthening the local economy so that we can further develop the welfare society — including church purposes, where, unfortunately, the Workers' Party has cut down on the appropriations in the past. I am very pleased that the Workers' Party now sees the appropriations for church purposes as an important part of the development of Velferds-Norway. That's a good promise!
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-05.ana.ud155e289	Arne Sortevik - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-05.ana.ud155e292	There's reason to remember that we have a state church. The government, as represented by the Prime Minister, actually appoints prominent leaders in the Church and should also be concerned with giving clear signals. The Prime Minister's reply to Carl I. Hagen was a weak and unclear signal. The Christian People's Party describes itself and Christian democracy as "the third way of politics". Does the Prime Minister assume from the Christian People's Party that this third road also leads to the Muslim takeover of Norwegian churches in Norway? Does the Prime Minister think that it is part of the Christian People's Party's value policy that Norwegian churches in Norway will be taken over and used by Muslims in the future, or will the Prime Minister do something to prevent Norwegian churches from being taken over and left to Muslims, thereby not securing Christian cultural heritage as a common value for Norwegian society?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-05.ana.ud155e299	It is very good that the Progress Party is now engaged in securing Christian cultural heritage. It surprises me then that the Progress Party voted against one of the most important reforms of the Norwegian Church to take care of the Christian cultural heritage in recent years, namely the reform of faith training, as the Norwegian Church has said, is one of the most important things that is happening now in view of our cultural heritage. That, as far as I recall, voted against the Advancement Party. It should now be remembered, when they are very concerned about strengthening this cultural heritage. Yes, we have a state church, but from the point of view of the Christian People's Party, the Church is, in fact, also a religious community to govern even on spiritual issues. When it comes to converting churches into mosques, I think that's a bad idea. I don't think it's going to be implemented. Such a gigantic transformation of churches into mosques that Schwarzevik now tried to create the impression of being near at hand, I have no faith in will happen. I know the Norwegian church landscape so well that I feel completely secure about it. Then I hope that the Progress Party will now contribute to the main issue of strengthening Norwegian cultural heritage, namely belief training.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-05.ana.ud155e310	Marit Arnstad – to the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-05.ana.ud155e314	Questions about church maintenance are not new questions, there are questions that people in the municipalities are struggling with every day: what in every day are they going to do to maintain church buildings? This travels a number of paradoxes, including: the paradox that Europe's most capitalist state, led by the Christian People's Party in government, cannot afford to maintain its church buildings per year. ==References== It is also paradoxical that even representatives of the government parties now say that some church buildings may be demolished. We had experience with that when we tore up a lot of stick churches in the last century, and I don't know if we're as happy about it today. This also raises the paradox that the Prime Minister today seems a little unprepared in relation to the question. He conveniently shifts responsibility to the municipalities, while his own church minister and his own municipal minister have just written a letter to the municipalities where they almost oblige the municipalities to take into account church buildings rather than other municipal tasks. So much for the local freedom of action in that matter. The question is: Will the government follow up what the minister of the church has previously promised to return to the Stortinget with a plan for the restoration and maintenance of churches?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-05.ana.ud155e323	Yes, of course, what the minister of the church has said about it is at hand. First of all, I think that this is not an odyssey, but really sincere, that it is very good with increasing political commitment in terms of church issues in general – well to note if one also takes into account that the Norwegian Church is a religious community – and the preservation of church buildings in particular. But then I would also recommend that someone come in close contact with the church environment, who wants a debate on where a more sensible should lay the churches, just to serve the Norwegian people and to strengthen the cultural heritage, which the Progress Party was occupied with. The two state councils have sent a letter to the municipalities, and it is precisely an expression that the government takes this responsibility seriously. We have not assigned here maintenance of church buildings rather than other important tasks in the municipalities. There is a false record of that letter, but we have reminded the municipalities that under Norwegian law they have a responsibility to maintain Norwegian church buildings. We have also presented a programme for the preservation of Norwegian stave churches, and come back to the other church buildings.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-05.ana.ud155e332	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-05.ana.ud155e335	I would like to ask the Prime Minister a question. In these days grotesque images of the abuse of prisoners in Iraq go around the world. It is the US occupying forces who expose prisoners to not harassment but serious abuse, torture and treatment that are in violation of all international law. These are the forces that would free the Middle East from the weapons of mass destruction and free people living under a very brutal dictatorship, offering them democracy and human rights. What does Bondevik think about what is now happening about the treatment of Iraqi prisoners by American soldiers, and in what way does he intend to express his reaction and view on this to the U.S. authorities? Will he do something that will allow this, which is random information, to be reviewed so that we can see what the overall situation is?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-05.ana.ud155e342	I take the greatest distance from the mistreatment of prisoners and anything that is contrary to international conventions in terms of the treatment of prisoners and actions in relation to war-like situations. Conventions must be observed. There's no doubt about it. Norway's view of this is clear. We've expressed that, we're going to express that, and we're also going to meet with the Americans. As far as I've registered, without having those quotes by hand now, the U.S. authorities themselves have taken away from such imagery and the actions that lie behind, as Kristin Halvorsen pointed out. There is no doubt about the Norwegian Government's view of this. We take a sharp distance from the abuse of prisoners, torture and other forms of treatment that are contrary to international conventions. As you know, under international conventions, occupying forces also have a responsibility in an occupation situation, as we now have in Iraq.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-05.ana.ud155e349	I did not believe at any time that the Norwegian Prime Minister thought this was proper treatment of prisoners. But I may be a little surprised that Bondevik's indignation is no bigger. So these are the forces that would free Iraq from a brutal dictatorship. They treat prisoners in a way that is a violation of all international law, and Bondevik is content, because he thinks the United States has taken a break from this. This doesn't last. This is a situation in which the behaviour of the United States in Iraq is both very low in relation to what is to be international law, and undermines any possibility of a stable government in Iraq in the future, because the civilian population and others are subjected to the kind of treatment that would free them. Does Bondevik not think that this is entirely beyond what it is reasonable to demand from the United States of America in respect of human rights, and also completely beyond what an occupying power may permit? And so it's an occupying power that also adorns itself with Norway's support.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-05.ana.ud155e354	As you know, the United States did not support the war in Iraq and the occupation, so it is not necessary for Kristin Halvorsen to try to create the impression. I also think she could appreciate the Norwegian government going against the war in Iraq. I haven't said I'm satisfied with the state of things or the American reactions. I don't understand where Kristin Halvorsen got it from. On the contrary, I am greatly upset by such treatment of prisoners, whether it happens in Iraq, or it happens elsewhere. I also agree that this does not make it easier with regard to the plan of the occupying powers, namely to leave the regime in Iraq to the Iraqi authorities from 1 July. I still hope that it is possible. It's important, and I hope that the UN, as Norway is working for, comes closer to the situation in Iraq. We know that the UN is resisting something, including: Because of the security situation, but it's important that we can do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-05.ana.ud155e361	There will be follow-up questions – Morten Højlund.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-05.ana.ud155e364	It was shown to hideous actions and cruel images. It's legitimate to take the full distance from. We are also pleased that Bush and the Americans are working hard on this. It was mentioned in the main question that the situation in Iraq is difficult, there is a need for stability, the need to establish order and order. Would it not be desirable in such a situation that Norway could also contribute in the future, preferably with a UN mandate? As we understand the Government, you pull out with forces, almost anyway. Isn't it time we contributed what we can, just to avoid more atrocities? We also feel that the Norwegian forces that have been in place in Iraq have made an excellent effort.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-05.ana.ud155e371	Back to assault on prisoners. As far as I know, the US Secretary of Defense has also said that when that happens, it is non-American attitudes. So one takes a distance from that, and it should just be missing. We don't accept this kind of prisoner treatment. I agree with the representative, Mr Höglund, that we now have a very difficult security situation in Iraq. There has been a previous decision that the Norwegian engineering company should be there for one year. The government has not found that it would like to make that decision. In other words, in line with what both the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of Defence presented here in the United Kingdom in December, the engineering company will be pulled out this summer. The question of any other limited contribution will be discussed in the bodies of the Grand Duchy.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-05.ana.ud155e378	Bjørn Jacobsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-05.ana.ud155e382	We're all thinking about the terrible pictures of the girl in Vietnam that were avalanches of bombs and napalms. These photos passed around the world. We also know that these images have had great consequences for the opinion on the conduct of warfare. The images that are now going around the world, and which show how our allies behave in Iraq, can they be something that creates change when it comes to the occupation of Iraq, in the sense that the UN and international law need to come up with more in every way? What kind of thinking does the Prime Minister do in relation to the fact that in the future something good will come out of something as terrible as what we see daily in the media?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-05.ana.ud155e387	I am as shaken as Jacobsen and others over such pictures and reports. Unfortunately, we have also seen that in other war situations before, but there is no excuse for what is happening now. I think it is very important that we can help to bring the situation in Iraq into a second phase as soon as possible, namely that the United Nations enters more strongly, and that we have an Iraqi regime, first of all a transitional regime, and then a democratically elected regime in Iraq. But that means that, like other countries, we too have a responsibility for the security situation in Iraq. Although we were against the war, and even though we are not part of the occupying power, the world cannot otherwise deny the responsibility for the uncertainty that the Iraqi population now feels and the suffering it is experiencing. It is also clear that we are considering a possible lesser presence in the country, which in case requires a basis for international law.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-05.ana.ud155e394	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-05.ana.ud155e397	My question also goes to the Prime Minister. A new survey shows that Norwegian agriculture now has more support in the Norwegian people than it has in twenty years. 84 pst. by the Norwegian people will maintain the family farm as we know it. The reason for that is simple. The overwhelming majority understand what Norwegian agriculture means to ensure safe food, it understands what it means for the cultural landscape, it understands and acknowledges that agriculture is the backbone of many rural communities, not least in those parts of the country where tourism has a large potential. The government has presented a kind of offer to agriculture that reinforces the closure of the number of uses. Now we put down eleven usages per. day(s) It is estimated that the Government's arrangements will contribute to a doubling of the number of user reductions. There is therefore a significant gap between the developments that the Government wants for Norwegian agriculture and the developments that the overwhelming majority of Norwegian people want. My question is then, what is the government's understanding, as 84 pst. by the Norwegian people have not understood?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-05.ana.ud155e406	Firstly, I am very pleased with the result of the survey that shows that there is a great deal of excitement in the Norwegian people about maintaining a good agricultural situation and living rural areas in Norway. Secondly, I note that it was also referred to in the nations a few days ago that we have an increasing optimism in Norwegian agriculture. I am pleased, and as Prime Minister, I am pleased to have contributed – because I have contributed to the fact that in the years we have had government responsibility, we have had negotiated solutions with the agricultural organisations. We have the goal of smoothing out the difference between the input and the other groups. In fact, something positive has happened – in the two years of the co-operation administration has been responsible, we have had an increase in income for the farmers of approx. 23 pst. It is far above what the other group has had, I think it is above double. But then they also had revenues of approx. NOK 150 000 per year. The annual work when we started, now it is well NOK 190 000. So in this way, there has been a clear improvement. There has been a certain reduction in the number of annual works in the last few years, as far as I remember, approx. 6 pst. In the offer that was delivered to agriculture yesterday, we have not taken into account a doubling of it, but a further development along the lines that have been. We believe that this will provide a basis for farmers over the three years that the Co-operation Government has been responsible for, to have had a clearly stronger increase in income than other groups. So we're helping to balance the differences and to create greater optimism in Norwegian agriculture. That has been the purpose of this government, because we want strong, robust Norwegian agriculture and living rural communities. It means certain structural changes, it also happened when the Center Party agreed to have government responsibility, otherwise.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-05.ana.ud155e417	Few industries have undergone as many changes as agriculture has made in recent years. Structural changes are very extensive. The question is, where will this end, where does the government want this to end? The majority of the Stortinget believed last year that agriculture would retain the efficiency gain that was proposed, which is quite reasonable, given that one has an average income of NOK 190 000. But what does the Government do? Well, it absorbs the whole efficiency gain, which is very debilitating for an industry that is under pressure, and where one has an enormous need to contribute to increased optimism. With the changes proposed by the Government, it will probably be that we will be able to maintain agriculture in the central East, in the Iron and in the Trøndelag, but there is no doubt that it is now up to it – including with the significant structural changes – that it will lead to a terrible outburst of agriculture in the West, in North Norway and in the Internal East. It is difficult to interpret the Government in a way other than that it wants this agriculture to go away. Will the Prime Minister confirm this?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-05.ana.ud155e426	Of course not. Such demagogic representations have nothing to do with reality. The cooperative government wants agriculture both in North Norway, in the West, in the Internal East and in other parts of the country. I have to note that during the Cooperation Government, the income growth in agriculture has actually been stronger than when the Senter party was in government. I was also in the same government as the Center Party – that was also a useful development, but it has been even better now. And that's of course the answer to Åslaug Haga: we don't want any closure of agriculture in parts of Norway, we want it to develop on the contrary. I think the Central Party is wise to take on board the reality that even the negotiations in the World Trade Organisation will have to lead to certain structural changes in Norwegian agriculture, and it is perhaps wise that we prepare for some of that. Otherwise, of course, the Prime Minister and the head of the Central Party must not conduct the agricultural negotiations on the pulpit of the Stortinge. They are held in these hours in the negotiating rooms, and they should remain there.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-05.ana.ud155e435	There will be follow-up questions – Inge Ryan.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-05.ana.ud155e438	I have an additional question that goes to the Minister for the Environment. We in the SV agree that there has to be a significant change in Norwegian agriculture. But a change that we do not like is that we should stop giving transfers to the smallest uses, precisely because the smallest uses are very important for Norway to be the Norway in which we are all so happy, a country in which we live, and where we have both fields and houses that have been taken care of. Does it not worry the Minister for the Environment that we are building up a part of the cultural landscape, and that we can get another type of Norway, where we do not take care of the soil that we have been caring for for for many years?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-05.ana.ud155e447	As the Prime Minister also stated in his reply, income trends in agriculture have been very good in the years of the Co-operation Government. It has also helped to strengthen all uses. When it comes to taking care of the Norwegian cultural landscape, where agriculture plays an important role, the Minister of Agriculture has also stressed this more strongly in recent agricultural negotiations. In fact, additional grants have now been granted that both promote and encourage those who want to take care of the cultural landscape, so that Norway does not grow again.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-05.ana.ud155e454	Odd Roger Enoksen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-05.ana.ud155e458	My question goes to the Prime Minister. A substantial part of the income growth seen in the last two years is due to a sharp decline in the interest cost of agriculture, a decline in interest costs that the Government is now withdrawing as a whole, contrary to the other group of society, where a gain in the form of a fall in interest rates is obtained. It is true that the previous government led by Bondevik made up for moderate structural development through St.meld. No 19 which was presented by an agricultural minister from the Christian People's Party. What the government is doing now is raising the production ceiling to 500,000 litres. It equals 80 cows, as opposed to an average use, which is 15 cows. This cannot be called a moderate structural development. It's true, as Åslaug Haga says, this is an agriculture that fits well with the Jären, the East and parts of the Trøndelag. But in the area from which the Prime Minister comes, and what I myself come from, you can't run an agriculture based on 80-year-olds and as large areas as this requires. Does the Prime Minister admit that we want to see a structural change in agriculture where it will be the fjords and North Norway as a loser for the flatlands?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-05.ana.ud155e469	As I said, we should not conduct agricultural negotiations on the floor of the Great Britain. I would also like to believe that the Senterpartiet agrees with further thought. It is clear that for agriculture, which has high capital costs, interest rates play an important role. It affects farmers' incomes, so one can't ignore the interest gain we've had and that along with the transfers, we've now had the strongest increase in farmers' incomes over the last two years. This is not the case with the Government's offer that one cannot operate a farm and get support for it with less than 80 cows. I also think that Enoch is fully aware of that. We have to make a certain transition, also because it will come as a result of the World Trade Organisation negotiations. I think it would be wise for us to prepare for this, but we are going to do this at a pace that will keep agriculture both in North Norway and in the West. Now it's going to be negotiated, and then we hope once again that we'll be able to get a negotiated solution, as it has been in recent years.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-05.ana.ud155e476	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-05.ana.ud155e479	My question goes to the Prime Minister. Yesterday, Erna Solberg, the incoming Right-leader, went out and declared that she had a clear wish that the Government would establish a budgetary agreement with the Advance Party for the autumn. Last autumn there was an agreement between the government parties and the Workers' Party. It gave more to school, to health and to work, and many in the Christian People's Party said they were satisfied with it. In the same interview, Erna Solberg said that she was very pleased that she had become so much better at presenting Christian People's Party positions. Many of us have long felt that the Prime Minister, on his side, has become a master at presenting Right-Original Positions. My question to the Prime Minister is this: does the Prime Minister Erna Solberg's clearly expressed wish for a budgetary agreement with the Spring Party for the autumn?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-05.ana.ud155e490	First, I owe it to you to point out that the Council of State, Erna Solberg, has found it necessary to clarify something in relation to the ingress that occurred in the VG yesterday, where it was produced as if she had rejected any possible budgetary cooperation with the Workers' Party. She said in a letter to me that she has not stated. In the previous budgetary procedures, the government naturally went first to the Progress Party and invited to budget discussions, because they supported the formation of this government on a specific basis. We'll do that again, and we hope that can give you a solution. It gave it the first two years. If it doesn't give a solution, like the last harvest, we reserve the right to go to the Workers' Party. It is the government's policy that we keep both the two possibilities for a budgetary solution open. As regards the formulations of the Prime Minister, the Prime Minister shall speak on behalf of a tripartite government. I have good practice in that, whether it's center management, or it's the Cooperation Government. It may be that the Workers' Party must also gradually get training in order to realize their dreams.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-05.ana.ud155e499	I don't have any plans to put myself in practice to present right-wing positions, I can assure the Prime Minister. [[Laughter]] I also note from Solberg's statements that there is clearly a certain disagreement in the view of the relationship with the partners in Stortinget, and then notes that this is the Prime Minister who is the head – I guess – and that he has not thus bit the hook at the invitation of the Progress Party. The Progress Party and the Right have alternately flirted with each other in the media in recent times in order to approach each other in economic policy, but I believe that the Prime Minister now states that it is not possible – at least not to express a wish – to find a solution with the Advance Party for the autumn.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-05.ana.ud155e506	What I said is the government's policy, namely that we first go to the Progress Party. That's the natural thing. And, as I said, I hope we get a solution there. But if we don't get that, we reserve the right to go to the Workers' Party and seek a solution there, as it was last year. We're keeping both of these possibilities open. When it comes to training in formulating on behalf of several parties, I am fully aware that the Workers' Party does not have ambitions to have the Right in government. However, you can practice taking into account the views of the Centre Party and the SV, for example. to the EEA, to NATO, and to food and environment policy, when they are expressed. [[Laughter]] It's just to get into practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-05.ana.ud155e513	There will be follow-up questions – Jens Stoltenberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-05.ana.ud155e516	If I'm going to train something, it's leading a majority government. There's a big difference between leading a majority government, which has a majority behind it in the Biggest, and leading a minority government consisting of several parties, which has a minority behind it in the Biggest. That is the problem of this government, because first you have to make compromises in the chamber, and then you have to go to the Stortinget and make new compromises. This is not primarily about games and about who you go to and who you don't go to, but it's about politics. If you go to the Progress Party, you get a majority for a policy that spends billions of dollars on lower taxes, but then it becomes less for municipalities, schools, care for the elderly and other important tasks. If you go to the Workers' Party and make an agreement with us for the autumn, there will be little or nothing in tax relief – in return, there will be much more to school, to well-being and to other important Community tasks. That is the political choice this government is facing. I regret that the basis of the Government has been chosen on the basis of a document supported by the Progress Party, which is a Right-dominated policy, and which goes in a different direction from that of the Workers' Party. That's why we're going to focus on winning the election in 2005, so that we get a majority for another policy in the Grand Duchy.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-05.ana.ud155e523	I'm not in doubt about Stoltenberg's ambitions, and it's okay that he starts that election campaign now. I also noticed what he said about little or nothing in tax relief, and found that he has been in for about 14 billion kroner so far during this period. If he thinks it's little or nothing, it's okay for me. But it was quite interesting, the representative Stoltenberg started with, that he would train to lead a majority government. It requires training, because the Workers' Party has no experience of sitting with other government parties – so it is certainly wise to start that training. So he said that minority governments are the problem. But Stoltenberg has many times opened up to a minority government in recent months. He has sometimes been very close to writing off the possibility of a majority government, because of, among other things. The EU case, and said that then the Labour Party headed a minority government. So I can't believe he's taking such a sharp distance from it. If this is really an insurmountable problem, then the whole of Stoltenberg’s government dream can fall into ruins.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-05.ana.ud155e532	Carl I. Hagen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-05.ana.ud155e536	First, a comment on the budgetary agreement of the Government with the Workers' Party, which Hill-Marta Solberg boasted. I think she has then forgotten that, unlike the Progress Party, the Workers' Party did not have the power to stop the extension of the number of days paid for by the employer in the law on leave. We went from three to ten days, and the result we could read in the newspaper yesterday, namely a significant increase in redundancies in the construction industry instead of permits. That's one of the differences. The party of progress is actually engaged in employment, as opposed to the Workers' Party, which took up completely different things. Then to the budget procedure for the autumn. Now the Prime Minister has confirmed that he intends to come to the Advance Party first. Can we then rely on last year's experience that the first offer of changes to the government budget will be 20 pst. of what you're really willing to reach out to? My second question concerns the revised national budget this year. Should there be negotiations under the revised national budget, would it be natural for the Government to work primarily with its partner on the budget for this year, namely the Workers' Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-05.ana.ud155e545	Of course, I am not starting the budget negotiations of the autumn now, until the government has even completed its work on the budget. How much one possibly joins in a first offer in relation to what we can be willing to extend until the end, I will not comment further now. I think Carl I. Hagen understands very well. With regard to the revised national budget, I think it would be natural to find a solution with the Labour Party, with which we found the solution to the budget itself. This is not a new budget, but it is a revision of an adopted budget. In the absence of such a solution, there are other options in the context of the revised national budget, either other batches or so-called slums, because, as is known, the revised national budget is not adopted as a total package, as is the case in the case of the harvest, but is adopted chapter by chapter. This has happened up to several times in recent years, with a useful end result. So that freedom of action will be exercised by the Cooperative Government. I can notify you so much that the revision is also demanding, because there are some expenditures that are rising quickly automatically, and for which we need to find discovery.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-05.ana.ud155e556	Kristin Halvorsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-05.ana.ud155e559	I can confirm to the Prime Minister and the President that we are in dry practice in order to be able to form a new majority of next elections, including a majority government. There is the big difference between the right-hand side and the left-hand side of the policy: there can be a majority option on the centre-left side, while there is only one minority option on the right-hand side. The rationale for trying to obtain a majority government is strong. This government has no way of saying how many of its cases end up in Stortinget. We are sitting with the report of predators, we are sitting with the tax reform, and we are sitting with the revised national budget. The government makes some suggestions, it can go here or there in the Storting, and a lot of time is wasted on clarifying these majority decisions. If we had managed to get to a centre-left majority and a majority government with a clear course, we could really initiate some major projects in Norwegian policy. Is there any possibility that the right side and the Christian People's Party can match this with a proposal for a majority constellation?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-05.ana.ud155e568	A majority constellation centre-right I don't think is very realistic, because, from my point of view, the Progress Party is not a current government partner. But that's interesting, what Kristin Halvorsen now says. I understand that it is necessary to go to practice one and a half years before this can become relevant, because there are certainly some questions to be resolved. It will be interesting to see what the three parties together will achieve before the elections on environmental and industrial policy, on the defence budget – it will be a test already in the autumn – and on the day-to-day NATO policy, and not only the question of NATO membership, which is opposed to SV, but also the daily security policy to be pursued in the U.D., whether it is Kristin Halvorsen to sit there, or it is Jagland or another. I really look forward to this with great excitement. What Kristin Halvorsen now says must mean that the Workers' Party has already cut itself off from taking up the EU case early in the next enlargement period, because if they are to do so, such a tripartite project, according to both the Centre Party and SV, is dead. So that was an interesting new twist and information.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-05.ana.ud155e577	Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen – to the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-05.ana.ud155e580	I record that Kjell Magne Bondevik went to elections with a view to becoming prime minister of a central government, but ended up as prime minister of a Right-dominant government. Jens Stoltenberg has clearly stated that it is an objective to establish a majority government, but he has also always said that the Workers' Party will help establish an alternative government, and that he is open, if necessary, to a minority government. But the aim is, of course, a majority government to avoid having an unpredictable policy with a varying majority in the UK on a case-by-case basis. That is the key question for the Prime Minister: is it not a problem that the future head of the main government party expresses one priority, while the Prime Minister today expresses some other priority? What is the ambition of Kjell Magne Bondevik to establish a majority option with a view to more predictable governance?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-05.ana.ud155e587	The last question I actually didn't realize, because Erna Solberg, to whom Schjøtt-Pedersen was probably aiming, has not indicated the priority that she wants a government along with the Progress Party. On the contrary, she has repeatedly made it clear that she does not think it is realistic, and in this way we have exactly the same opinion. But that's interesting, what Schjøtt-Pedersen now says about Stoltenberg's prime minister ambitions. He now makes it quite clear that Stoltenberg, if there is a parliamentary basis for it, can end up as prime minister of two completely different governments, either for a tripartite government with the Central Party and the SV, or for a purely labour party government. And there are two completely different governments, I would assume, with a rather different policy, because the Centre Party and the Swedish Labour Party must, of course, have influence – it should just be lacking – and then that government policy will be completely different from whether the Workers' Party governs in a minority. These are two widely different government options, and it is very unclear before the elections which we get – if there is a parliamentary basis for it. That situation is quite interesting. Stoltenberg may become prime minister for two governments that are completely different and of course have to conduct a quite different policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-05.ana.ud155e594	The time for the oral question procedure is running out, and we're going over to the ordinary question procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-05.ana.ud155e599	There will be some changes to the list of questions set out, and the President will refer in this context to the overview distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 2, from the representative of Gjermund Hagesetset to the Minister for Finance, is postponed until the next Question Time when the Council of State has left. Question 10, from the representative of Mr Vaggen Malvik to the Minister for Oil and Energy, will be answered by the Minister for Justice on behalf of the Minister for Oil and Energy, who has been removed. Question 11, by the representative Steinar Bastesen of the Minister for Fisheries, will be answered by the Minister for Transport on behalf of the Minister for Fisheries, who has been removed. Question 15, from the representative of Morten Höglund to the Minister for Transport, will be raised by the representative of André Kijkestad.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-05.ana.ud155e618	I am delighted to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs the following questions: ‘Last year the Republic of China was severely affected by the SARS virus. [[Taiwan]] The Republic has applied for membership of the WHO, which in its constitution determines that the objective is to reach the entire earth's population with its help, regardless of borders. The decision will be taken in the near future. Will the Minister for Foreign Affairs support the application of the Republic of China for membership of the WHO, possibly in favour of associated membership?’ [[Taiwan]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-05.ana.ud155e627	Norway, like most other countries, is pursuing a one-China policy which means that Taiwan is not considered as a country of its own but as part of the People's Republic of China. The World Health Organisation (WHO) consists of independent States, including the People's Republic of China. As a result, Taiwan cannot become a member of the organisation. The WHO's top organ is the World Health Assembly. Last year, a unanimous assembly decided not to raise the issue of Taiwan’s observer status on the agenda. However, I would like to stress that, within the framework of the one-China and WHO legislation, Norway supported pragmatic approaches to the practical involvement of Taiwan in international health cooperation. An example of this is the sending team that WHO deployed in Taiwan in 2003 to assist local health authorities in the context of the SARS outbreak.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-05.ana.ud155e634	I am reasonably quite disappointed with this answer. There can be no doubt that Taiwan is operating in practice as a country of its own. They have had their own government, which has controlled the area with their own army, since 1948, they have their own national assembly, they have their own Supreme Court. They have all the organs and all the things that belong to be a separate, independent state. But this is an area where a billion people are subject to a dictatorship. In this area, Taiwan is a democratic pearl, and so the Norwegian government chooses to trample on democracy and support the dictatorship. The Republic of China, i.e. Taiwan, has associated membership of a number of other international organisations, and I therefore wonder why such a solution cannot be accepted in this context as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-05.ana.ud155e643	That is exactly the question I have already answered, and I therefore refer to my answer. I understand that the representative Simonsen is disappointed. However, I am absolutely sure that he is not surprised, because this is a policy that has been in place for decades after decades. On the supplementary question, it seemed that he was not so concerned about the health issue itself, because it is found a pragmatic solution to it, but by infecting the one-China policy that we have pursued for over 50 years. It has been discussed several times by Stortinget, and I am therefore dealing with positions with which the Stortinget is well-known.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-05.ana.ud155e650	There is no doubt that associated membership or at least observer status will make it easier to find flexible solutions in cooperation with the World Health Organisation. I am disappointed with the answer, but hope that the Government will follow up and do its best to find practical solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-05.ana.ud155e657	When it comes to health issues, I can only confirm that we are looking for pragmatic solutions to achieve as broad a cooperation on important health issues as possible. And if you can focus on that, I'm sure you'll succeed in those efforts as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-05.ana.ud155e673	This question has been raised.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-05.ana.ud155e680	I would like to ask a question to the Minister for Health: ‘In the context of the non-proliferation treatment of social benefits from the social security system for the expenses of midwives, it was emphasised by an overall social committee that the regulations were to be designed in such a way that the woman’s freedom of choice as to who should be the primary responsibility for maternity care becomes effective. Does the Council of State consider that this principle is respected in the existing regulations, which allow midwives only to increase the rate of pregnancy control, and that initial examination and sampling are to be carried out by a doctor?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-05.ana.ud155e689	At Stortingen's treatment of Ot. pp. No 89 for 2002-2003, §5-12 of the Grape Social Security Act was extended from the provision of birth assistance outside the institution to the provision of maternity checks by midwives with a municipal operating agreement or in a municipal position. The legislation and related regulations entered into force on 1 May of this year. At the same time, Section 5-11 of the Swedish Social Security Act on Pregnancy Control in a Health Station was repealed. From 1 May, maternity care in health centres is reimbursed at medical and midwife tariffs, depending on whether a doctor or midwife conducts the individual control study. The Ministry has sent circulars on the scheme to the municipalities and professional organisations on 19 April this year. The reform implies that, in addition to maternity care in relation to the health centre, municipalities may also conclude an operating agreement with private-practicing midwife on maternity care. The majority of the case has been dealt with, among other things. stressed the importance of increasing the freedom of choice of pregnant women with regard to the main responsibility for maternity care. The current National Health Inspectorate’s professional adviser assumes that the first full examination of the pregnant woman is carried out by a doctor and that the subsequent control studies should be distributed between the doctor and the midwife. The same is assumed in the circular of the department in connection with the former health centre social welfare regulations. The medical tariff system, which was also used until 30 April for reimbursement to health centres, includes one tariff for the initial survey and another and lower tariff for subsequent control studies. The rate of initial examination is reserved for a doctor, while the control tariff may also be triggered by a midwife employed by a doctor or, until now, in a health centre. In line with this, the new Soil Regulation for midwives provides for a single rate for control studies. The Health Supervisor does not have the status of a prescriber, but is intended to provide guidance on how to manage maternity care. However, if a pregnant woman wishes to have the initial study carried out in the midwife and the midwife considers that it has the necessary competence to carry out the study, it will not constitute a breach of the rules. The examination will also be supported by the social security at that rate in the social security regulation. However, this would lead to a breach of existing professional guidelines if the new regulation had established a separate tariff for the first time survey carried out by midwives. The Directorate for Social Affairs and Health has been given the task of developing new professional guidelines for maternity care. It is planned that a draft may be sent to the hearing within the summer. If this work leads to a conclusion that a midwife should be able to conduct the initial examination on the same basis as a doctor, I will ensure that a separate and higher tariff is introduced for that midwife in the social welfare regulation, as the department has also stated in the said circular. Similarly, a professional re-evaluation will be required before it is possible to introduce, where appropriate, a midwife's tariff for taking and submitting samples to the laboratory. In this case, there will also be a need for changes in the law, as it is clear from § 5-5 that only dentists and doctors can request laboratory examinations for the benefit of the social security. If the directorate here concludes that midwives have professional qualifications to obtain tests, follow-up is to be considered with legislative changes and reimbursement tariffs.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-05.ana.ud155e704	I thank you for your answer. I want the Minister of Health to clarify this a little bit more. I'm a little optimistic when I hear part of the answer here, that he'll look at this. However, in circular I-7/2004, the Ministry of Health writes that it is necessary to reconsider whether the midwife is qualified for initial controls on pregnant women and to take the necessary tests. This has been done by midwives in this country in their maternity care since we received a statutory midwife service in the municipalities. This is contrary to Council Directive 1980/115/EEC, which requires Member States to ensure that midwives have the right to start and pursue activities involving the detection and monitoring of the development of normal pregnancy and to carry out the studies necessary to monitor normal pregnancy. The initial survey and sampling are part of that care. This is where the EEA Agreement breaks down.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-05.ana.ud155e713	Let me say that with the current legal regulation and the current professional counsellor, I do not see that the regulation in relation to the issues raised by the representative May Hansen could have been designed differently from what it has done. But on the other hand, I also find it difficult to see that this involves some restrictions on the freedom of choice of the pregnant woman as to who should be responsible for the main responsibility for maternity care. In the case of sampling, it may be carried out without simultaneous pregnancy control by the physician, but then as part of multidisciplinary cooperation between midwife and doctor. However, I am open and think it would be a natural consequence of new technical guidelines from the Social and Health Directorate to change tariff regulations similar to what may be found in the technical guidelines. These are professional questions, where I will not override the directorate, but I will deal with the recommendations I will receive when this work is completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-05.ana.ud155e722	I thank you for your answer. These are restrictions on the practice that has been taking place in this country for a long time in the case of midwife in maternity care, so there is nothing to discuss. There is also a restriction on the reimbursement of the municipality – so it is more expensive for municipalities to have midwives in maternity care than before, because the reimbursement of doctors is getting higher. I also think it is quite inconsequential on the basis of the consultation round, where both the Social and Health Directorate, the Rikstrøgdeverket and the Norwegian Soccer Association say that the proposal that came undermines the objective of women's freedom of choice, and that it also does not ensure that the midwife will be able to provide the pregnant woman with full-fledged maternity care. Does it not seem to the Minister of Health that it is a concern not to take account of the hearing bodies when drawing up rules on maternity care?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-05.ana.ud155e731	What is essential in the preparation of regulations is that the regulations comply with the law adopted by the Stortinget and that they comply with the professional guidelines laid down by the professional bodies. That is what has been the framework for this regulatory work. When the professional guidelines are amended, the regulations will also be amended accordingly, as I said in my main reply, and I will reject the fact that this regulation provides for some kind of change in the basic division of labour between doctors and midwives in this country.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-05.ana.ud155e739	My question is as follows: ‘I am aware that the Ministry of Health has a report on the rotational services of doctors for treatment. The background to the report is the lack of tour sites in Norway, with the associated waiting time before the start of the tour. A proposal that is being considered is the prioritisation of students from Norwegian universities at the expense of Norwegian students studying for doctors abroad but who also want to obtain authorisation as a doctor in Norway. The Council of State will ensure that Norwegian medical students abroad continue to be treated in the same way. Turn and authorisation?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-05.ana.ud155e748	For the past six to seven years, the number of turns for medical candidates has been more than doubled. While there was an annual need for 310-320 tournament venues in the 1990s up to 1997, the need has increased to 750-800 this year. The increase is mainly due to the increase in the number of study places in Norway and the fact that from 1993 there has been a fee grant to finance any school money for Norwegian students studying medicine abroad. There has been broad political agreement on this increase in order to meet the need for doctors in general care, specialist health services and medical research. We've had a radical improvement in the toy coverage here in the country. Until 2001 everyone qualified for the tour site was given the opportunity to start their tour service shortly after completion of the examination and after any additional tests required. Following a broad consultation round, amendments to the Turnus Regulation were adopted in December 2001. The changes meant that the number of candidates to start the tour service has to be distributed by about as many at start-up summers as at start-up winters. The reason for the change was that many more candidates are graduates in the summer than in the winter. The main explanation for this is that the universities of Trondheim and Tromsø only graduate in summer, while Bergen and Oslo graduate both in summer and winter. The decision was based on the consideration of health enterprises and municipalities as employers and on the determination of supervisors. There were serious problems for these people to receive a variable number of turn doctors from six months to six months. The consequence of the amendment is that part of those who are involved in the turnaround exercise must wait half a year before they can start the service. However, according to the regulation, those on the waiting list are guaranteed the right to choose the roundabout in subsequent drawing. I have to make it clear that so far everyone who has wanted to take a tour in Norway has had such a place, whether they are educated in Norway or abroad. Per. On 3 May 148 candidates were on the waiting list. These are secured places in August if they want tour services in Norway. In the spring of 2002, the Directorate for Social Affairs and Health was tasked with investigating a number of aspects of the rotational services of doctors, including: the question of the possible prioritisation of candidates. A report from a working group set up by the Directorate was sent to the hearing, with a deadline of 15 March. Summary and recommendation of the Directorate are expected to be forwarded to the Ministry before the summer. I will carefully consider the proposals, the answers and the recommendations of the Directorate. Initially, I am determined that anyone who wants a tour service in Norway will receive such a service on equal terms. If it turns out that priorities need to be made, I am aware that this is of great interest to Norwegian medical students abroad. Until I have evaluated the transferred material from the directorate, however, I do not see it as appropriate to advance any conclusion on the question of the possible prioritisation of student groups in the allocation of the tournament space. With regard to the issue of authorisation, it is fully possible for Norwegian medical students abroad to obtain authorisation as a doctor in the country of study. This is probably the case primarily for students in EU countries. Authorisation granted by a doctor in EU countries to Norwegian authorisation. For doctors authorised by the new Member States, transitional rules apply in the first years. In this context, non-discrimination with regard to authorisation will depend on the legislation on which Norway is obliged by the EEA Agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-05.ana.ud155e761	I thank you for your answer. The Council of State concluded that this is also an EEA dimension – there may be more – namely that in general, Turners are considered to be workers under EEA legislation. Would it not, then, break that general rule by any deprioritisation of Norwegian medical students who have studied abroad? Or does the Minister of Health think that Norwegian authorities will be able to implement such a priority freely and thus break the EEA rules?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-05.ana.ud155e766	I want to point out what I said about my principal position, namely that it must be a goal that all students are offered study places on equal terms. With regard to the assessments made in this report, I do not want to go into it, nor to speculate on the consequences of it as to what it might have to say for our other obligations. I want to get the directorate's advice, evaluate it thoroughly, and also evaluate the answers to the hearing, before I go into drawing conclusions. But my starting point, and I understand that, is also the starting point of the Blackevik representative, is that Norwegian medical students should be guaranteed equal treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-05.ana.ud155e773	That's right. My starting point is also education policy. Through the Quality Reform, recently introduced in Norway, we have focused on the international adaptation of higher education. We have also stressed the need to encourage study abroad by contributing financially, as the Council of State was also concerned with in its first response. It is also important for medical coverage in Norway that Norwegian doctors trained abroad practice in Norway. Will the Council of State look at ways other than turns to give qualified doctors permission to practise, so as to avoid unfortunate capacity problems and actually wait time to get into Norway for Norwegian doctors who are trained abroad?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-05.ana.ud155e780	I think it is essential to give full access to practice as a doctor in Norway to review the tour services after you have completed your studies. What is important is to apply for action so that the tour service can be completed in the most flexible way possible for students, regardless of where they have studied. That's my overall starting point. Then I will consider the proposals that are now coming. We have to see the whole thing of this. Basically, it's good news for patients that we get so much better access to doctors. So for that reason, it's a bit more demanding to make sure that they are phased in, lock them into the Norwegian system, but at the bottom there's a good news.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-05.ana.ud155e789	I have the following questions for the Minister of Health: ‘It is a well-known case that health care establishments have a very difficult economic operating situation for 2004 and 2005. It is therefore of great public interest to know whether the number of patients treated in the specialist healthcare service has fallen in the first quarter of 2004 compared to the first quarter of 2003. Can the Council of State provide information on this?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-05.ana.ud155e798	It is true, as the representative Alvheim points out, that health businesses are faced with major migration challenges. In the context of the treatment of the 2004 State Budget, the Stortinget imposed a balance sheet on health businesses in 2005, and there is also a call for about half of the measures necessary to achieve this balance sheet requirement to be implemented this year. At the same time, the 2004 budget provided for the continuation of activities at about the same high level as in 2003. In the field of mental health protection, this is the case, for example: as part of the follow-up to the escalator plan, taken into account that there should be an increase in activity. In total, these two messages present a very demanding governance challenge for health enterprises in 2004. It calls for a stronger emphasis on priority and for resources to be channelled from areas that currently have overcapacity to areas that are characterised by inadequately developed supply, while at the same time ensuring that the necessary migration measures do not compromise patient treatment. I am of the clear opinion that regional health businesses are working very seriously with these governance challenges, and as far as I have registered, there are no unlucky measures in the conversion measures now proposed in 2004 that will affect priority patient groups. The governance structure of regional health enterprises for 2004 provides for a tertiary reporting of activity. We're just five days inside the second tertiary. Therefore, naturally, I do not have a complete overview of the activity development so far in 2004. However, regional health enterprises are continuously following developments in the number of waiting and waiting times. Based on this numbering material, there is so far no indication that the number of waiting lists or waiting times is increasing. In the first two months of 2004, there is also no indication that the level of activity is lower than that envisaged.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-05.ana.ud155e809	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It's not exactly in line with what you get when you talk to professionals around in the companies. I am aware from the budget papers and from the health minister's guide to businesses that he assumes that the level of treatment should be about the same in 2004 as in 2003. In my opinion, this really means a reversal of the treatment capacity, and I have registered in the media that several hospitals have announced a cut in the offers and plan further cuts of different types. In this context, can the Minister of Health confirm that the lack of operational resources in 2004 has not led to, or may lead to, a partial inactivity of professional personnel in our hospital?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-05.ana.ud155e818	I maintain what I said is that it's my definite impression of the number material that I've seen so far, that there's no indication that waiting lists and waiting times are increasing, as the representative Alvheim asked. I make a clear premise that healthcare companies make good use of the personnel they have. What is essential, however, is that resources are deployed where they are needed most. In a situation where there is overcapacity in some areas, switching is required to be able to deploy resources so that they meet where we have waiting times and unacceptable capacity problems.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-05.ana.ud155e823	Once again, I thank the Council of State for the answer, and expect the Storting to be briefed on developments. Several entities have been signaled that, in order to maintain liquidity, they have had to significantly increase their overdraft loans. Although the level of interest rates is low today, the rate of overdraft would be reasonably high and could help hospitals simply throw money out of the window instead of using the funds for patient treatment. Does the Minister for Health have an overview of the percentage of overdrafts carried out by enterprises so far in 2004?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-05.ana.ud155e832	Of course, the Minister of Health does not go around with these figures in his head, and I cannot therefore give a concrete answer to the question that Mr Alvheim is asking here and now. But I promise that in the revised national budget we will review the hospitals' economy, we will review the needs of hospitals for loan frameworks for investment purposes, as we have promised the Stortinget. If I can allow myself to say that, I don't think that's the basis for a black paint of the situation. I have also read with interest an interview with the representative Alvheim in Dagbladet where, if he is quoted correctly, he has said, ‘Everything is not as bad as I’m going to have it for’. I'm really happy about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-05.ana.ud155e841	I will be allowed to ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘Health Mid-Norway has decided that a new hospital must be built in Molde, because the condition of today’s hospital is so poor that it would not be reasonable to spend too much money in a rehabilitation. The need for a new hospital is so precarious that it should start construction as soon as possible. Will the Council of State take a positive view of an application if it appears that private individuals can handle the investment in the building, while the health business can stand as a tenant, in order to achieve a rapid realisation of the project?’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-05.ana.ud155e850	The scope of ongoing and planned investment projects in healthcare enterprises represents a major challenge, both for each regional health enterprise and for the country’s overall specialist health service. I have several times in the past stressed that not everything can be implemented at the same time, both on the basis of the possibilities we have for managing many projects in parallel, and on the basis of the costs involved. When assessing possible solutions for development projects, regional health businesses have been given the opportunity to cooperate with private actors. A very central condition for health care establishments is that future development projects must and must be carried out within their budgets and priorities. The representative Nesvik points out that the hospital in Molde is in poor condition and asks how an application for a particular model will be met. When assessing investment, there are two aspects that are particularly central: Do you have the means to implement the investment and will you be able to bear the costs when the construction is to be put into operation? I am aware that there are plans – at an early stage of idea – for the construction of a new hospital in Molde. The desire for the development of a new hospital must be seen, independently of the project model, in the context of the development of a new university clinic in Trondheim in the same region. This expansion — a multi-billion-dollar project, adopted by the Stortinget — will capture a great deal of available investment resources during the development period. This will therefore have to limit the possibility of other development projects over the next decade, not only regionally but also nationally. The need and desire for new projects must therefore also be assessed from a national justice perspective. We can't let all construction activities happen in parallel. Cooperation with private individuals, e.g. through so-called OPS solutions, the project may not charge the liquidity directly during the development period itself. There are equally significant economic pressures and risk factors in this type of solution. It is not the case that costs ‘disappear’ even if private investors participate in a development project. On the contrary, such a solution could result in heavy bonds in the form of a burden on future operating budgets; a private investor would, of course, be entitled to a return on capital injected. But I'm making myself clear that private actors can contribute to good solutions, including in the area of investment. However, I would warn against a presentation that private investors should be a simple solution «on the side of» ordinary systems. There are no mild gifts here. The assessment of these types of solutions, such as for other project models, must be made with a view to economic realities and priorities and the specific requirements of competence as follows. Just economic realities must now be burdensome for Health Mid-Norway in order for those responsible to carry out further assessments and priorities of current hospital interventions in Molde. With the regional and national investment now taking place in central Norway, there must be realism to what extent further projects can also be launched in this area. The Ministry's view is that there must be a realistic approach. New major projects in central Norway requiring exceptional funding from the Stortinget cannot be expected to be carried out in parallel with the major ongoing project in Trondheim, which is the largest hospital expansion of the time.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-05.ana.ud155e868	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I'm not so happy with that, I'm counting on the Minister of Health to understand that. If I interpret the Minister of Health correctly, you have to finish the project in Trondheim before you can assess other things, that is, after 2014. What is the reality is that the Molde hospital requires so much in terms of rehabilitation funds in order to be able to continue operating for the number of years referred to here, that it would lead to an amount in the hundreds of millions of dollars if we were to have an uprising hospital there. Is not the council of state that if a new hospital had been set up in Molde earlier than 2014, as outlined here is the time when you can start this, you would save money to rehabilitate the already existing building, and thus save that money?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-05.ana.ud155e875	I'm going to be the first to recognize that there are major challenges to the building mass at the hospital in Molde, and that there is a need to do something about it. However, this cannot be seen in isolation from the whole system of investments in the hospital sector and from the national priorities in this area. The size has chosen to give priority to two major hospitalisations in the coming years and to provide exceptional funding to the two health establishments concerned. This means that health businesses other than Health Mid-Norway and Health East have had to put in line with projects they have wanted to realise in the same period. Then there will be a question about Health Mid-Norway can handle investments in Molde without extraordinary funding from Stortinget. If they can do that, there is one situation, but if they are to ask for extraordinary funding from the Stortinget, as received in Trondheim, and as received in Aarhus, there is a completely different situation for national health policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-05.ana.ud155e880	The last answer from the Minister of Health, at least I interpret it more positively. As far as Health Mid-Norway is concerned, they have already decided that a new hospital should be built in Molde, and if we receive external funding on the investment side, and if we are to stand as the tenant, this will go beyond the operating situation and the operating resources that Health Mid-Norway has to put on the table in order to operate that part of it through the agreements that a potential builder will have. As I interpret the Minister of Health, he is at least positive that if there are private investors who will be responsible for the construction of this project, Health Mid-Norway can start the project without applying for general investment funds from the state – and earlier than 2014. Do I correctly interpret the Minister of Health?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-05.ana.ud155e885	I don't think Stortinget's Question Time is a suitable place to clarify large expansions like hospital expansions. But it's true that I'm basically open that OPS solutions can also be assessed in the hospital sector, and the system is such that regional health companies have the power to make investments that they can defend within their economy. But let me remind you that, as far as I know, Health Mid-Norway has also decided to stop some of its ongoing investment plans, because they do not have enough investment funds within the framework provided to them. And in such a situation, it's more than speculative to answer Nesvik's questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-05.ana.ud155e894	I have the following questions for the Minister of Health: ‘There are estimated to be around 900000 people in Norway with allergic plagues. Many of these are so plagued that it can impair their situation in life and participation in school and work. Some causes of allergy appear to be clear, such as pollen, tobacco smoke, food products, etc. Nevertheless, it is claimed that both knowledge of allergic diseases and research into allergies are too poor. To what extent is systematic research conducted in Norway to reveal the causes of so many allergies?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-05.ana.ud155e903	Allergy and asthma constitute a major health problem in our country. The problem affects children and young people in particular, and is a cause of considerable long-term morbidity and resource use. It's been estimated that maybe 40 pst. by the population at any time in life will be plagued by allergies. The causes of the development of these diseases are not known. In some areas, there is some knowledge of what increases the risk of developing such pests, and there is some knowledge of what enhances allergy in those who have already received it. Allergy arises from an interaction between inheritance and the environment. Knowledge of the hereditary factors is important, for example: to develop new medicines and other treatments. In order to prevent allergies, it is important to know what conditions in the environment are causing allergenicity. In recent years, central authorities have taken the consequences of a lack of knowledge in this area. Under the direction of the Norwegian Research Council, two research programmes on indoor climate, environmental pollution and health were launched between 1995 and 2000. The programs focused, among other things, on: on the causes, extent of such health problems and knowledge of prevention strategies. From 2001 onwards, these programmes were continued in the Environment and Health research programme, which is planned for 2005 onwards. There is a lot of cause and effect research on good international standards in this field in Norway today. The study that so far has given us the most knowledge of the development of asthma and allergy among children is the so-called Barneastma study, which has been a collaboration between Ullevål Hospital, the Adult Hospital for asthma and allergy, and the National Institute for Public Health, where 3 500 children have been followed from birth until the age of 10. The Norwegian ‘Mother and children survey’, under the direction of the National Institute for Public Health, will provide good opportunities for getting closer to causes of asthma and allergies, as we can here explain whether conditions in pregnancy may affect the development of this. The children’s allergy study in Trondheim, directed by SINTEF and NTNU, investigates the causes of childhood allergies and the effectiveness of prevention measures. The Public Health Institute, in cooperation with the Regional Hospital in Tromsø and the University of Tromsø, supports the study of asthma and allergy among children, which is part of an international study on the difference in the incidence of asthma and allergies in Europe. Haukeland Hospital in Bergen also has an active research environment in research into asthma and allergies. The National Institute for Public Health operates in cooperation with the Food Authority and the Veterinary Institute Food Allergy Register, which is a reporting system to identify the occurrence and causes of allergic reactions. It's an extensive business. In a relatively small country such as Norway, this shows that much research is being done in this complex research area. It is still important to provide a financial framework for this research so that it can contribute, on the one hand, to exploring any particular Norwegian situation and, on the other, to contributing to international cooperation in order to create new and important knowledge that can benefit the individual patient.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-05.ana.ud155e920	I thank you for the answer, which, in my opinion, was quite right. In general, I am very concerned about medical research, because what the Minister of Health was also involved is only through research that we can identify causal relationships, develop new drugs and improve treatment. Unfortunately, Norwegian research has gradually become worse than the research of other countries, because we are spending less money. Doctors won't be researching, and many professors are unconvinced. As the Minister of Health pointed out, many different research projects in the field of asthma and allergies stem from different environments, and not least from fires within the field. But after the Minister's reply, I still record that the projects are very fragmented, and I wonder if the Minister for Health sees any possibility of taking the initiative to coordinate the current projects better than the one that might be the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-05.ana.ud155e929	I want to answer positive to that question. We have been commissioned by the Ministry of Health to create a new strategy plan for the prevention of asthma and allergies and indoor climate-related plagues. This was mentioned in St.meld. No 16 for 2002-2003, Public Health Communication. This new strategy plan will be available in a short time. Research will be one of three key areas in this Strategy Plan, and the coordination of the overall research effort is an important topic in this context.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-05.ana.ud155e934	When I have raised this question on a completely free basis, it is because asthma and allergies are so severe, as the Minister of Health was. I believe that there needs to be a strong focus on systematic and coordinated research. So it is now that regional health businesses have also been given a very clear responsibility to ensure that research efforts are increased and improved. Does the Minister of Health have any idea of how enterprises deal with research in the field of asthma and allergies?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-05.ana.ud155e939	In my main response, I reviewed some of the most important research efforts in this area, and referred there to research related to several of our health companies, both Ullevål University Hospitals and University Hospitals in Bergen and Tromsø. So my clear impression is that this is a topic that focuses on health businesses. The idea of developing a new strategy plan will be that the whole sector, both the research environment, the institutional environment for other and health services, including healthcare companies, will focus their efforts on the priorities set out in this strategy plan. We're talking about one of our major public diseases, and that's why it's important that it has broad attention from all sides.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-05.ana.ud155e949	I will ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘Many wear with overweight in Norway. The causes are different, but the common feature is that there is a strong desire and need for treatment. Extreme overweight is a disease, which applies to at least 15 pst. by the population. Nevertheless, there is not a good public service provision for everyone. This group must receive a proper treatment offer. Will the Council consider providing financial support for treatment provision for obese people abroad until a good enough offer is established in Norway?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-05.ana.ud155e958	The adopted amendments to the Patient Rights Act help to strengthen patients’ right to treatment. The amendments will enter into force on 1 September of this year and will require patients with the right to the necessary health care to have an individual deadline for treatment based on medical conditions. If this deadline is exceeded, the patient could be offered treatment at private or abroad. This means that patients with extreme obesity may be offered treatment abroad when the capacity of Norwegian hospitals has been decommissioned, provided that the patient concerned is entitled to the necessary healthcare under the Patient Rights Act. Regional health businesses will be responsible for implementing these changes in the Patient Rights Act. In my opinion, these changes ensure that all patients with the right to the necessary health care receive treatment either in the regular health care, in private or abroad within a professionally sound time frame. This is a better solution than granting earmarked funds for treatment abroad for some patient groups. Furthermore, I would like to mention that the treatment offered to patients with severe obesity is now being developed in Norway. On the action page, prevention is the most important and is part of general public health work. Among other things, the measures of the EEAS related to changes in diet and physical activity will be a significant contribution. In addition, people with severe obesity need good health care services. On behalf of the Ministry, the Directorate for Social Affairs and Health has drawn up proposals for action, which are now available in a separate report. Several of the proposed measures in the report are in the process of being implemented. Among other things, routine measurements of height and weight shall be introduced at the health station and in the school health service. Furthermore, the Social and Health Directorate develops professional guidance to meet the need for increased healthcare skills in this field. The aim is to provide patients with a comprehensive investigation and appropriate treatment based on reliable and relevant knowledge. The 2004 governance paper requires regional health companies to establish regional and multiregional treatment services for patients with health problems due to strong obesity. This has resulted in the regional health enterprises planning to establish a national network for this type of issue and a significant improvement in the capacity of the operational offer. In addition, multi-disciplinary and longer-term treatment services with a focus on lifestyle changes are planned. Health West has for a long time offered surgical treatment for patients with severe overweight. In addition, Health Mid-Norway has started such treatment, while Health South and Health Nord are planning to start in the autumn. Health East has put in place or has to deal with a number of proposals for patients with severe overweight, e.g. the decision on which healthcare provider is to perform surgical treatment in the near future, while organising specialist seminars with a view to developing a regional action plan for this patient group. In other words, it happens very much positive. I believe that in a short time we will see a promise for this patient group in Norway, as well as strengthening its rights to treatment abroad.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-05.ana.ud155e975	Thank you very much for your answer. I think the Council of State gave a positive response, and it also seems that the Council of State is taking this problem seriously. I want to say that my question concerns those who suffer from an extreme form of overweight, and we know that most people are in the disability queue. We know that they can't function fully in society, we know that many people sleep with oxygen at night, that's diabetes 2, so the disease image is very serious. I fully agree with the Minister of Health that earmarking appropriations for operations abroad is not the way to go, but until now this patient group in Norway has not received sufficient help. Now we have hope that the Council of State will be right in saying that during the autumn this patient group will get a fully-fledged straight line with other patient groups, if it is medically justified and recommended by a doctor. I do not have any specific questions to the Council of State, but more as a small recommendation would ask him to follow this closely and carefully, for these are people who are not first in line to press for their interests.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-05.ana.ud155e980	I can confirm that this patient group has my attention. That is why I asked the Social and Health Directorate for this professional report, which is the basis for the measures now being implemented. That is why I have instructed regional health companies to establish treatment provision in Norway. We've been too bad about this, and there's been a group that hasn't met the requirements, as many other groups do. Therefore, it has been important for us to lift them up and exert a strong pressure to develop better treatment in Norway. I now feel safe about that. In addition, that safety valve will be there when the new Patient Rights Act enters into force, that treatment abroad can be obtained if the medical deadlines are exceeded here in the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-05.ana.ud155e985	I'm tempted to ask a short supplementary question. Many may also ask the question of when we have the opportunity to build up a good treatment provision in Norway, so I want to challenge the Council of State in time. It is clear that by building up such an offer, one will also have a completely different competence in this field nationally, so I wonder if the Council of State can be a little more concrete in relation to the time when it is possible to have a good national treatment offer for this group.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-05.ana.ud155e990	Yes, I can be. Health West has an offer, in Førde. Health Mid-Norway has recently started treatment. Health South and Health Nord plan to start up in the autumn, and Health East has taken a number of measures and will decide in a short time which health care establishments are to perform surgery in this area. This means that in all health enterprises there is now activity to increase supply. Something is already going on, and the rest will be going on this year.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-05.ana.ud155e998	My question goes to the Minister of Justice: ‘In newspaper Politiforum nr. 4 for 2004 is an interview with Tromsø's rapporteur, Hermann Kristoffersen. When asked about ‘Do you have similarities between crime and the well-being of its citizens?’, Tromsø’s rapporteur replied, ‘In part, but it is not exactly the same. Intrusions and car thefts are irritating, but no more.» Does the Council agree with the rapporteur on this?'
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-05.ana.ud155e1007	Security is a central welfare factor. Circumstances that create insecurity for the inhabitants, e.g.: crime, is also an attack on our welfare community. Crime is therefore the opposite of well-being and reduces the quality of life of individual citizens. A safer everyday life is a shared responsibility in cooperation between public, diverse organisations, cooperative actions and voluntary forces. Individuals as well as institutions must be protected from abuse and criminal acts. In this cooperation there are many untapped opportunities. This is why the Government’s overall policy focuses on both preventing and combating illegal acts. General crime, such as thefts of profits, thefts of use and damage, affects many people. The public's confidence in the police and the general sense of security in the community depends not least on how such crime is handled. Intrusions into the dwelling and in the car are different from violations of economic values. Such crime, i.e. burglary, is often perceived by the victims as a serious breach of integrity and can create great insecurity. Combating the criminality of profits requires both preventive measures and effective criminal proceedings, not least against reperpetrators. The Government has proposed and, with the support of the Progress Party, has adopted a more severe punishment for repeaters. It is the Riksadvokat, not the Minister of Justice, who decides which issues are to be given priority by the police and the prosecution authority. Nevertheless, the police and the prosecution authority shall give priority to their efforts to secure people against crime. Combating general crime must be balanced against the fight against the more serious crime prioritised by the National Attorney. Such serious crime tends to constitute a smaller number of crimes, but requires the greater effort and relatively large resources to be resolved. But it would be wrong to say that a stronger priority of serious crime contributes to undermining criminal policy as a significant contribution to the well-being of people. The police shall therefore provide the necessary assistance and assistance to the public within the framework of such general crime as burglaries and car thefts. And as a direct, summarizing answer to the representative's question, this crime is violating the well-being of its citizens.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-05.ana.ud155e1016	I thank the Council of State for the answer, and especially the end of it. I fully agree that it is strange that a rapporteur is debating something as serious as this. As I get on the go, there are probably two burglaries with killings where one has hidden the action in the form of fire. I'm thinking about Sea Vegan and the Breivikeidet, and these are still not clear. So that type of crime, that is, serious thefts and car thefts, has serious consequences in some cases, and then I find it strange that the rapporteur in Tromsø makes this a small trifle. I do not know whether this is the position of the country's rapporteurs, but I would ask the Council of State to say something about the general position of the country's rapporteurs on this type of crime.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-05.ana.ud155e1023	With respect to reporting, I know the rapporteur in Tromsø as a rather libertarian, and in this context I am told that the representative has a quote of a statement, and that is the quote I am commenting on. The rapporteur probably has something to add, and he will probably do that, but based on the question, and based on this quote, I have answered very clearly. I will not reply on behalf of the Norwegian rapporteurs. I will answer as I would feel myself, as a Norwegian citizen. How would I think of myself as a Norwegian citizen? I have the impression that the way I think about it as a Norwegian citizen, I should also think of it as a trust vote for Norwegian citizens, i.e. as a state council. Therefore, the value response I chose to give to a value-oriented question from the representative, not only the Council of State Dørum's answer, it's also citizens Dørum's answer. That's what I want to establish in my meeting not only with the agencies I'm responsible for, but also with citizens elsewhere in this country, including local political trustees.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-05.ana.ud155e1030	I am dealing with the State Council Dørum in this matter and in this room. Let me conclude with one question: is there a need to inform the country's rapporteurs about the evolution of crime that is about to take place on a national basis? For the statistics, both for Tromsø and the rest of the country, there is a clear increase in crime, and the resources of the police are going down. In the light of what the rapporteur has said in this interview, how are rapporteurs in the country generally informed about the evolution of crime and its consequences for the well-being and quality of life of citizens?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-05.ana.ud155e1037	It is my impression that Norwegian rapporteurs, as most people, are concerned with security, and that is reasonable and important. With regard to the specific matter, I would just like to say the following: I have taken the initiative to strengthen something that I know is happening, namely that the police chief in a police district is meeting with the rapporteurs locally. I encourage you to keep doing that, and there is also an opportunity to have dialogue with the police locally. It happens in this city, and there are many places in Norway. It's a good form of dialogue, where you can get the insight you want to share with each other, so get something from the police and give something back. I am going to appeal for that form to be reinforced, and I have also specifically asked that meetings be held during this year in all the police districts, between the rapporteurs in the district and the police department.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-05.ana.ud155e1042	The President feels that this has been done as a previous rapporteur.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-05.ana.ud155e1045	Then I just have to add that I see rapporteurs as excellent people!
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-05.ana.ud155e1050	We're all the same!
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-05.ana.ud155e1057	This question, from Mr. Ingvild Vaggen Malvik to the Minister of Oil and Energy, will be answered by the Minister of Justice on behalf of the Minister of Oil and Energy.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-05.ana.ud155e1060	I have allowed myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Oil and Energy: ‘State power has been required to sell its 50 pst. ownership of the power plants in Upper Namsen, and Nord-Trøndelag Electricity plants want to buy. [[NTE]] However, it appears that Norway’s watercourse and energy directorate will require NTE to be transformed into a group in order to be allowed to purchase State power’s holdings. [[NVE]] Is it in line with the Government's policy that the NVE enters and stops a public owned company's purchase of a hydropower plant by reference to the company's organisational model?»
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-05.ana.ud155e1069	Nord-Trøndelag The purchase by electricity plants of Statkraft's ownership in the Upper Namsen power plants triggers the concession obligation under the Energy Act and the Industrial Concession Act. NTE’s applications for necessary concessions under the Energy Act and exemption from concession under the Industrial Concession Act are currently pending in the Department and in the NVE. Under the Energy Act, the NVE is to decide on any authorisation for the purchase, while the Ministry deals with the concession issues under the Industrial Concession Act. It is established practice in such cases that the Ministry obtains a professional position from the NVE in the handling of the case under the Industrial Concession Act. At the same time, the NVE assesses whether the directorate is prepared to grant permits under the Energy Act. The decision of the NVE under the Energy Act may be appealed to the Department. Since this is a matter that is currently under consideration, I ask for an understanding that I cannot prejudge the proceedings either in the NVE or in the department. Also, as I know, the NVE has not completed its professional treatment of the matter. In dealing with energy-related issues under the Energy Act, the authorities take into account the leadership given by the Storting in the treatment of Ot.prp. No 43 for 1989-1990 and Ot. pp. No 56 for 2000-2001 on the Energy Act. According to Ot.prp. No 56 for 2000-2001 may be subject to group model requirements in relation to all mergers, purchases/purchases, other acquisitions or establishment involving both network and competitive activities. The group model includes, inter alia: network activities and production and marketing activities must be put into separate legal units to help prevent the exploitation of the monopoly situation of network owners. The companies may have the same parent company, but they cannot own each other. As there have been many purchases and mergers in recent years, many companies are organised according to such a group model. I would like to mention that this type of organisational requirement is a topical issue in the context of the EU's new electricity market directive, which is currently in the department, with a view to implementing the EEA Agreement. On the EU side, there has been a growing focus on the organisation of companies in order to achieve a well-functioning power market. In dealing with cases of exemption under the Industrial Concession Act, the Ministry bases the guidelines given by the Stortinget on the treatment of Ot.prp. No 31 for 1989-90. The exemption provision may be used in such a way that no obstacles are placed in the way of socially desired mergers. The Ministry has noted with interest that Nord-Trøndelag Electricity plants have signed an agreement with Statkraft SF, so that the electricity plant becomes the sole owner of the Upper Namsen power plants. The purchase strengthens regional ownership and may lead to further optimisation of the production of hydropower plants in the watercourse. I am sure that it will be possible to find a solution to the matter that ensures the interests of the region and serves the purpose behind the legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-05.ana.ud155e1084	I thank the Council of State for the answer. NTE is currently a company with significant production, network activity and turnover, and the NVE has accepted the current organisational model, which is a municipal enterprise. Is the intervention of the NVE less transparent in the accounts or less cross-subsidy in the NTE than that of limited liability companies organised as a group, and is there any reason to believe that this problem will increase if NTE takes over production facilities where they already have significant holdings and where the company has been operating? Or is NVE's intervention an expression of a hidden strategy in the Government for the privatisation of municipal owned power supply, so now it's going to privatize Statkraft by merging the company?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-05.ana.ud155e1093	In the answer I gave on behalf of the oil and energy minister, I first said that the issues raised in the representative's question are being addressed, and I therefore asked for understanding not to comment on them. But I ended up with -- and I'd like to repeat it: ‘The Ministry has noted with interest that Nord-Trøndelag Electric Power Plants have entered into an agreement with Statkraft SF, so that the electricity plant becomes the exclusive owner of the Upper Namsen Power Plants. The purchase strengthens regional ownership and may lead to further optimisation of the production of hydropower plants in the watercourse. I am sure that’ – says Steensnæs, through my mouth – ‘that it will be possible to find a solution to the matter that ensures the interests of the region and serves the purpose behind the law’. That's how far I have cover to give some answer, when you're in a procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-05.ana.ud155e1103	I would like to thank the Minister of Justice for his reply. I would like to point out that my question is not only a question of COHESION and NTE, but also a more fundamental question. I therefore wonder whether there is a basis for claiming that the problem of cross-subsidisation is greater in a multinational group than in a public owned municipal enterprise organised as NTE is today, as an example, since this problem is not discussed in connection with the Statkraft proposal. State power owns significant shares of Norwegian hydropower production, while being co-owners of networks and turnover. The principal aspects here are, I would like the Council of State to expand.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-05.ana.ud155e1110	Yes, the Council of State is not the Council of State, but the Council of State can at least deal with matters in the Stortinget. I'll repeat from my first answer: ‘In dealing with energy-related matters under the Energy Act, the authorities take into account the leadership of the Stortinge in the treatment of Ot.prp. No 43 for 1989-90 and Ot. pp. No 56 for 2000-2001 on the Energy Act.’ And then I said, «In accordance with Ot.prp. No 56 for 2000-2001 may be subject to group model requirements in relation to all mergers, purchases/purchases, other acquisitions or establishment involving both network and competitive activities.’;» I went on to describe this, and it is clear from this what policy guidelines the Government intends to base in general. That's what I want to add to this answer now.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-05.ana.ud155e1130	This question, from the representative Steinar Bastesen to the Minister for Fisheries, will be answered by the Minister for Transport on behalf of the Minister for Fisheries.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-05.ana.ud155e1133	I have a question for the Minister for Fisheries – which will be answered by the Minister for Transport: ‘Refer to the proposed fee scheme for registration in the trademark register. Fisheries are already heavily taxed in relation to competitors and other industries. This fee mechanism is in addition to many other fees and tax arrangements affecting fishing profitability. How does the Council of State view taxation in general and the new fee to be recorded in the trade mark register in particular, in relation to the current resource situation in fisheries?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-05.ana.ud155e1142	For the regulation of different groups of vessels in fisheries, it is essential to have an up-to-date and correct register as the basis for the arrangements. An annual fee is proposed to the effect that vessels no longer used for catch or fishing are deleted by the trade mark register. An annual fee will be an incentive for the owner of the ship to take the initiative himself and thus contribute to a more operational brand register reflecting the active fishing fleet. This will benefit fishermen. In the adoption of the 2004 State Budget, the size has joined the proposal that the industry from the current year will contribute to the cost of having a correct and up-to-date brand register through an annual fee in addition to the existing registration fee. In order to realise that assumption, an income requirement of 19 million has been adopted. DKK for 2004. This is a real increase of under 15 million. from previous kroner. A recent consultation of the regulatory proposals for such an annual fee has been carried out and the input from the hearing bodies is under consideration. The overall tax burden on the fleet has been taken into account in the proposals for fee rates. In the case of an equation of fishermen, fishermen have the status of self-employed. A special deduction of up to DKK 80000 per fisherman is granted. year from the income of fishermen and fishermen. The deduction has traditionally been justified by the fact that it is reasonable to compensate for the inconvenient working time and the social loss caused by fishermen, in line with seafarers, by their profession. As regards the taxes and charges on fishing fleets, the presentation of the Maritime Communication has created a debate on the financial framework conditions for fishing fleets in today's resource situation. Here I can say that it is announced in the shipping notice that the Government will now assess the framework conditions of the fishing fleet according to both the coastal and sea fishing fleet. This is what the Government will come back to Stortinget with in an appropriate way. The Minister for Fisheries has repeatedly pointed to the need for a structural policy that promotes the profitability of the fishing fleet. This is why, among other things: implement a series of structural measures aimed at improving fleet profitability. A profitable fishing industry could increasingly generate a return to the Community’s best interests.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-05.ana.ud155e1161	It was pointed out that the fishermen are self-employed and that they have a fishing deduction of 80 000 kroner that they can deduct from the declaration. Yeah, that's right. But now the Government, of which the Council of State is part, has submitted a tax notice proposing to remove the minimum deduction of NOK 80000. Does the Council really agree that the minimum deduction should be removed? What are you going to get instead? Should you get more fees instead? Do the Councils really agree with that?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-05.ana.ud155e1166	It is important that we have a good framework for the fishing industry. And as I said in my answer instead, we will come back to Stortinget with a matter where we will address this question, and where also the framework conditions of this kind will be affected.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-05.ana.ud155e1171	Once I have the Council of State spoken, it makes sense to ask a little bit about the draft Commission. We've been presented in the media lately that fishermen are some sad basement rings. What we were confronted with was, of course, everyday life in the European Union. We were confronted with draft fish. The pictures we were confronted with were from Iceland. But what upset us was that we have the opposite regime in Norway. We have a landing order, while everyday life in the European Union is a draft directive. Does the Council agree that the EU should also have a landing order, as we have in Norway? I assume that the Council of States will not join the European Union either.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-05.ana.ud155e1178	The President is in doubt if this falls within the scope of the original question, but it is up to the Council of State to choose whether to answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-05.ana.ud155e1181	It is good if we in Norway can show that we have a healthier policy in this area than other countries have. And then it will be an objective in itself that we can influence other countries to pursue a healthy policy also within the fisheries area. In this way, we can all contribute to good resource management that more than Norway is serving.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-05.ana.ud155e1190	I have a question for the Social Minister: «According to the Evening Post on 29 April d.o.b. it appears that disabled people receive public support for recreational facilities until they are 26 years of age. Although it was good that the limit of support was raised from 18 years old, it is such that as the disability, you need such aids throughout your life. Will the Council of State look at what can be done to allow adult people with disabilities to access recreational facilities?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-05.ana.ud155e1199	Until 1996, only disabled children under the age of 13 had such facilities. In 1996, the age limit was extended to 18 years. We know that training, stimulation and activation are especially important for children and young people. The government therefore proposed to increase the age limit from 18 to 26 years in the context of the 2003 state budget treatment. I'm glad that the Storting joined this. The reason for raising the age limit to 26 years was the desire to provide access to this type of aid to people with disabilities, including young people, particularly those with traffic injuries. The government is concerned with the ability of disabled people to live a life of their own. A few weeks ago, the Government’s big message on the reduction of disability barriers was addressed here in the Stortinget. The Communication, as Mr Olsen knows, contains 120 measures aimed at facilitating the life of disabled people. The main areas of activity are known as work and education, accessibility and better services. A person less than 26 years of age with disabilities can currently benefit from assistance for training, stimulation and activation to maintain or improve their function. There may also be social benefits for special or extra equipment in connection with special toy and sport activities. However, there is no social benefit for ordinary toys, standard sports equipment and competitive equipment. I understand the desire of the Norwegian Handicap Association that adults also need such aids. However, the scheme is targeted specifically at children, later on young people and young adults, because training, stimulation and activation are considered to be particularly important for this age group. In the case of new investments in the field of tools, the Government has prioritised tools for working purposes. The Ministry of Social Affairs has no immediate plans to increase the age limit of the scheme to include disabled persons over 26 years of age. An extension of the scheme to include adults will cost 40 million. kr and must be assessed for other important purposes in relation to the annual government budgets.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-05.ana.ud155e1212	I thank the Minister for the answer. I know that the Workers' Party has agreed to extend the limit to only 26 years. When I still want to challenge the Council of State on that, it is with the background in the media storage recent times. I am absolutely sure that the Minister for Social Affairs agrees with me that these are special equipment/aids that are not exactly shelf food, which are very expensive, and that especially disabled parents with children find it difficult not to be able to participate in leisure activities.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-05.ana.ud155e1219	That's exactly why the limit has been extended, first from 13 to 18 years and then to 26 years. I noticed that the Workers' Party also agreed to that extension. I have no problem getting to know the disabled and disabled people who are addressing this issue. But I would like to remind you of the Workers' Party's priorities, because there were no proposals of this type, in addition to the Government's 120 actions, when the paper was dealt with a few weeks ago. It is a rather problematic or priority in the 2004 budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-05.ana.ud155e1224	The Minister for Social Affairs refers to St.meld. No 40 for 2002–03, which has just been addressed, i.e. the reduction of disability barriers. The Labour Party was given a majority for a proposal for a decision to draw up mandatory action plans for accessibility for people with disabilities. Then I would like to ask: could the Minister for Social Affairs imagine a stepping-up plan in support of assistance for people with disabilities?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-05.ana.ud155e1229	As I said in my main response, the government has chosen to prioritise precisely what is going on as a tool in relation to work purposes, rather than leisure time. That's a priority. I have no plans now to raise the age limit so that it covers everyone or more. It has to be assessed for a number of other important purposes. The government has assessed the labour market with regard to the organisation grant and the fact that employers no longer have to have a special share in relation to aids. It remains a priority in relation to the organisation grant under the inclusive labour contract. Other batches must also consider stepping up towards other important purposes. The government has done that. I do not have any immediate plans to extend the scheme. This is linked to priorities within the State budget. The calculations carried out show that there is a sum of 40 million kroner.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-05.ana.ud155e1239	‘The 2004 State budget states that night and night services are to be continued in 2004 and that this needs to be seen in the context of the implementation of 6 pst. value added tax on the carriage of passengers and the elimination of electricity charges. According to Today's Business on April 5, d.o.b. the Minister of Finance says that the electricity charge will be reintroduced from 1 July onwards. with certain exceptions. The railway is not exempted. This will entail a cost of 35 million. kr for NSB passenger trains on an annual basis. How will the Council of State ensure the continuation of natogens under these conditions?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-05.ana.ud155e1246	The railway means a lot of places in our country. Therefore, in 2004 from the Government, we allocate more money to the railway than for a long time to make the railway even better – a total of NOK 6 billion over the state budget. Of these, over NOK 1.4 billion is the purchase of passenger transport from the NSB, both in close traffic and over long distances. It is a proper priority for environmental, road safety and good use of scarce land in metropolitan areas. It is clear from the 2004 State Budget that the Government considers it essential to maintain noctogens. Improvements in the VAT system have a significant positive economic impact on the NSB as of 2004. On an overall basis, the Ministry of Transport and the NSB agreed to maintain the operation of natogens. In addition, the elimination of electricity taxes on production activities contributes from 1 January 2004. In St. prp. No 1 for 2003-2004, tax, tax and customs decisions, it appears that the Government will come back with a proposal for a new system for the calculation of the electricity charge in the context of the review of the 2004 national budget. The impact of this new system on the NSB and its follow-up will be restored by the Government in the context of the revised national budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-05.ana.ud155e1255	Thanks for the answer. The agreement between the NSB and the ministry is not going to interfere so much. The NSB stated that there was an intention when they said they could continue the night and offer out this year, that they got 6 pst. VAT, in addition to the removal of the electricity charge – and this would apply to the end of the year. The reintroduction of electricity charges, possibly from 1 July, will entail an additional cost for NSB passenger traffic of 35 million. kr, according to those themselves. In addition, there is a freight transport. CargoNet claims that they will have an additional cost of $12 million. kr. They are in competition with trucks – to those degrees! And if there is a desire to get the most freight traffic from road to road, this is very worrying about the competitive situation in which rail freight will come. Governments referred to the Government's railway investment, including: Purchase of railway services for 1.4 billion kroner. What I asked for, is that the Council of State gives some sort of guarantee that the Government will propose to maintain the night train ahead.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-05.ana.ud155e1266	It is clear that the main economic impact of the NSB on the purchase of services and the discussion between the Ministry and the NSB in relation to night and night was related to the conversion of the VAT system. It's most economical. The electricity charge also went out and, of course, has a meaning. We will continue to work, of course, to be concerned that we should be able to maintain a good offer. How this is to be done will be a negotiation case between the Ministry and the NSB, but we are concerned that we should be able to take advantage of the opportunities offered by the use of the railway. We will return to this in the revised national budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-05.ana.ud155e1271	It actually applies to railway priorities and investment in the future. When it's spent $1.4 billion on the purchase of rail transport from the state, it's clearly higher than it's been before, but it's a very small increase compared to what was just four to five years ago. The purchase of rail transport goes largely to the central area to resolve the urban traffic. But on the other hand, out in the districts, where it applies to night and express over long distances, the state does not use anything to keep up the routes when purchasing services. The question is, can we at all think so in the future that this is going to be purely commercial? In my view, too little money is spent on rail. One likes to hit the table with 1.4 billion kroner being spent on the purchase of rail services, but socio-economically, it's actually too little compared to the cost of all the transport that goes on the road.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-05.ana.ud155e1280	In fact, I would say that at the time that the representative Rudihagen was in the Ministry of Transport, more of the railway business was purely commercial than today, it might seem. At that time, 980 million were spent. kr for the purchase of railway services. Now we're up to 1.416 billion dollars. That means it's between 400 million. NOK 500 million and 500 million. kr more. So it's going to be 50 pst. increase. That we're not using any more now, I'm going to refute the strongest. I would also strongly reject the fact that it is only in the urban areas we are now purchasing services. On the contrary, we have now in fact received nocturnal agents into the purchase agreement, initially thanks to the conversion of the charging system. There is something that greatly benefits different districts that have railway today.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-05.ana.ud155e1288	‘E6 through Norway has one ferry link and it runs between Bognes and Skarberget in the Nordland county. The holiday home of Bognes is 15 meters, while the requirement is 21 meters. In the case of low water, it must be built up under pulley buses in order to get them on land. the break between the berth and the ferry. The short berth has on several occasions caused buses to damage the chassis, to land at low tide or to have to wait for high water. Will the Council of State take the initiative to install a 21-metre berth?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-05.ana.ud155e1295	The holiday home at Bognes is 18 metres long after I have been informed. This implies that it is the longest standardised ferries in the country. There is no requirement for 21 meters of length of brown. In the case of Bognes, summer time must be used for running a car compartment one to two times per. weeks to get tourist buses on board and ashore. However, according to the State Road Service, the problem is not big enough to give Bognes ferjekai priority to other quays in the area. I see it as natural that professional priorities of which quays are to be prioritised for remediation are up to the state road system.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-05.ana.ud155e1302	Now it is possible that the targets I have been given by the ferry company are incorrect. Nevertheless, on the E6, which is the main road through this country, you have to use timber to get the buses on land. And then you won't give priority to this connection, which is the most important link through this long-range country. That means in a modern society that we have, the ferry has to wait for it to float, to get the buses on land, maybe with trailers and passenger cars that don't get past. I think it's a little expansive attitude the council has, when she accepts that it's like that. After I understand, there is a cost framework of 2-5 million. kr to expand the existing berth to get the ferry in place. Won't the Council of State take the initiative to solve this perfectly obvious problem?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-05.ana.ud155e1309	If the problem is the way I've perceived it, that one to two times a week you have to use car cabins for tourist buses, I don't think the problem is so big that it's urgent to spend as much money as it's all about here. If this had been a more comprehensive problem, I think there would have been reason to intervene. The representative indicates that timber needs to be available to get the buses on land. I expect the information given to me to be correct, and then this is not as big a problem as it is referred to here. I believe that there are actually some other challenges that are a little bit bigger in the transport sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-05.ana.ud155e1319	So these limbs have to be used one to two times a week. That's about. six hours between spring and flood. It has been such that buses have had to stand and wait for them to float, in order to be able to drive ashore, and tourist buses have damaged their chassis. It is clear that the Council of State rather accepts that buses and businesses should bear the cost of a faulty transport policy in this area than addressing the problems themselves. I think it's amazing that the Council of State accepts that you have to have it so that this happens one to two times a week, or 50 to 100 times a year, and that on the main trajectory through this country. I must say that I am mildly amazed at the attitude of the Council of State here.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-05.ana.ud155e1324	I am concerned that we should have good quality, both on this regular route and elsewhere. But I have to say that I have experienced challenges of slightly different dimensions both on this box and on other routes. I assume that the Road Service continuously assesses such questions as this. If it turns out to be a problem that you have to wait here for the tide and the spring, as it was pointed out, and that is a general problem, of course, you have to intervene in relation to it. As I have explained the matter, the dimensions are not the nature of the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-05.ana.ud155e1332	This question, from the representative of Morten Höglund to the Minister for Transport, will be raised by the representative of André Kukkestad.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-05.ana.ud155e1335	‘It is difficult to obtain qualified applicants for air traffic control posts, following media surveys, at the latest in the VG on 27 April. There is also a large proportion of employees who end up in supervision. VG writes that the supervision does not function optimally, and is moving slowly, this is justified by the decision to transfer the aviation oversight to Bodø. Does the Council share this description of reality, and in that case, what will the Council of State do to improve the situation?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-05.ana.ud155e1342	According to the Air Safety Authority, the recruitment of new personnel in Bodø has proved to be a challenge. The Air Safety Authority has had a wide selection of the 34 first posts of the new Air Traffic Authority in Bodø. Many applicants have signed up, but relatively few of them appear to meet the competence requirements of inspectors anchored in international legislation. However, it is only after the interviews have been completed that something can be said about the outcome. Today, the Air Safety Authority has 113 flying positions. Most of these have to be re-recruited, as few of today’s employees have expressed their desire to move with the Air Safety Authority to Bodø. In order to stimulate employees to become as far as possible in supervision and to join Bodø, the supervision has used wage compensation as an instrument. Furthermore, the Air Safety Authority has engaged a recruitment company, which has put in place various means of reaching persons with the relevant aviation background. This includes, among other things: included a broad national and Nordic notice, as well as a direct search for relevant persons in the aviation industry and active contact with relevant employers in the industry. A close contact has been established between the Air Safety Authority and the Department in this matter, so that I can keep myself informed about the situation. In recent years, 23 employees have joined the Air Safety Authority. The air traffic controller shall continuously seek to fill the vacant posts in order to maintain the necessary air safety work. I would like to emphasise that the oversight of aviation should be satisfactory both in relation to the international commitments Norway has undertaken and in relation to the expectations of the travelling public regarding aviation safety in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-05.ana.ud155e1355	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. The problem could hardly come as a surprise to the Council of State, cf. the debates which were held. I assume that the Council of State did not consider it to be a mere crisis maximisation. When compensation funds are said to have been used up soon and there is still a long time left until 1 January 2007, can the Council of State guarantee that we will not only have satisfactory but well-functioning aviation oversight, which will also maintain Norway's reputation in relation to airport and aircraft security?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-05.ana.ud155e1364	It is important to have a good functioning aviation oversight all the time, and that is what I have to pay attention to – continuously. It is demanding to move the supervision to Bodø. Looks like we've got that all along. We have chosen to do that, and the process is now running. As I said instead, a number of positions have been announced, and there is now a process in relation to the selection of these. It's more than international — and national — for that matter. Here we are subject to an international code that imposes strict requirements. It makes this process demanding, there's no reason to hide. Nevertheless, we have decided this, and the goal is clear for what to do. It requires something from us in the department. It requires that we follow this up in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-05.ana.ud155e1371	I understand the Council of State so that when she now puts security and credibility so high – as I am glad she does – the concern of Director Forest City is that the means of compensation will soon run out, not the big problem, all the time she won't leave it on the economy when it comes to the question of maintaining and perhaps also further developing the reputation and credibility of the Air Safety Authority.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-05.ana.ud155e1376	In terms of the economy of this, we get back to it in the individual years' budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-05.ana.ud155e1384	I will ask the Minister for Defence the following questions: «Avisa Nations writes on 26 April 2004 that Defence Building, in cooperation with the Norwegian Institute for Water Research, has revealed extensive pollution of heavy metals from the Defense Shooting Field. Will the Council of State take the initiative to take action to reduce the environmental problems created by the activities of the Defence Agency in the immediate environment of shooting paths and training fields?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-05.ana.ud155e1393	The short answer is yes. The defence has been systematically monitoring the field of metal pollution since 1991, for 13 years. The aim has just been to be able to take measures to limit possible environmental impacts. This year's report, which is the 13th in the series of monitoring reports, shows that the defence takes this type of environmental work seriously. In order to ensure a professional and independent assessment, the preparation of these annual status reports has been carried out by the Norwegian Institute for Water Research, NIVA. Flexible and appropriate shooting and training fields are necessary for effective training and training, and are therefore essential for our defence capabilities. But for me, it is very important that the defence is able in a good way to balance the environmental impact of shooting and exercise fields, against the need for sabotaged and co-interested departments. Therefore, for a long time, the defence has been monitoring and implementing measures to precisely limit environmental impacts in shooting and practice areas. So far, 25 shooting and practice fields are monitored. The prioritisation is based on experience regarding where contamination may occur. Specific measures are considered in eight out of a total of 25 fields, including among others. installation of filter installations that bind loose metals, revegetation to reduce the risk of erosion and adaptation of measurement areas to avoid fragmentation of projectiles. The focus has been on the fields with an indication of elevated run-offs, precisely based on the reports. For shooting lanes in particular, the Ministry of Defence's environmental action plan has set a target of 50 pst. of which, by the end of 2006. One of the measures is environmental remediation, which aims at removing existing gunpowder with sand and projectiles and replacing them with run-off-proof fillers. At the same time, the use of leaded handgun ammunition will be reduced. Existing shooting and practice fields are established over a long period of time before the pollution law came into force. On the other hand, the new fields, including the newly established Eastern Region, are subject to a concession requiring emission control measures for air, water and land. The State pollution control authority granted access to emissions of limited quantities of heavy metals into water and land within the outer boundaries of the field in its emissions permit of 18 March 2004. At RØ, the Defence Agency has established a significant programme to continuously monitor the environment. The field is established for the purpose of preventing emissions, by the design of the firing bays so that heavy metals are captured before they are released into the wild. We also increase the use of simulator training to save the outdoor environment as much as possible, although it can never replace shooting training. Overall, I feel that we have complied with what is the queryer's intention.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-05.ana.ud155e1416	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I'm pretty happy with that. I feel that the Council of State is taking this problem seriously, because it is worrying what has emerged in this report. It is clear that part of our biodiversity is at risk from part of our shooting and practice fields. It is therefore important, as the Council of State says, that action should be considered. I might have gone one step further and said that action should be taken. I have a specific follow-up question, and that is: can it, for example. be relevant to the implementation of run-off requirements for existing launch areas as well? And will the Council of State ensure that the defence now follows up this so that the necessary measures are taken so that we save biodiversity, simply?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-05.ana.ud155e1428	Yes, I can confirm that we are not just considering taking action; we are taking action. As an example of this, I can once again bring forward the new Eastern region, which is becoming virtually lead-free, because the defence itself has wanted lead-containing handgun ammunition not to be used. This, together with the reduction of the annual consumption of white phosphorus by close to 50 pst. compared with the planned in 1999, the pollution load in RØ is reduced than assumed at the time of the decision to set up RØ. This is one example. We also initiate other measures in other fields. Fortunately, this is a long list of good examples. We have also established the Ministry of Defence's environmental protection price, which we distribute to those who have earned it. Here I want to draw up Halkkavarre shooting grounds, which received the environmental protection price last year. To put it simply, the state of the environment there in many ways is actually better than outside the field of fire.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-05.ana.ud155e1435	I just want to say to the council that I feel that she takes this seriously, as said, and will follow it up. I feel safe about it. Then the questioner is satisfied with the answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-05.ana.ud155e1440	I say thank you to the questioner. I appreciate the question. I would also like to take the opportunity to pay tribute to the Defence, which has really felt enthusiastic about addressing the environmental problem. There is now some sport in competing to get the year's environmental protection price. It's done that we've turned something that could possibly have been viewed as a problem, to be a positive challenge. So we meet the interest that both the questioner and others are exposing us to.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-05.ana.ud155e1447	Question 17 is from the representative Heidi Sørensen to the Minister for the Environment. The President cannot see that Heidi Sørensen is currently present in the Chamber. So we move on to question 18.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-05.ana.ud155e1453	There was a little rush! I have a question for the Minister for the Environment: ‘What is the timetable for the submission of new planning and building laws?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-05.ana.ud155e1462	It came quickly, but it was a good question.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-05.ana.ud155e1465	The plan law committee's position with proposals for new planning provisions in the Planning and Building Act has been at a wide consultation after it was submitted last spring. More than 200 partial consultation opinions have been received. The Ministry is working on the review and systematicisation of these opinions. At the hearing, opinions on specific proposals were requested with a specific deadline. These were proposals which could be promoted independently of the other amendments and which would have an impact on more efficient and predictable planning. The provisions on appeals and objections aimed at reducing ‘rematches’ during the planning process, submitted to the Storting and adopted on 25 March this year. I intend to implement the provisions from 1 July this year. The Government has also submitted proposals for amendments to the provisions on impact assessments which make them simpler. At the same time, the proposal follows up the EU Directive on impact assessments on plans and programmes, which the Stortinget has decided to include in the EEA legislation. The proposal is being discussed in Stortinget. It is now working on proposals for legislative provisions on development agreements in the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs in cooperation with the Ministry of the Environment. These may be present until the harvest. Already, on the basis of the Plan Law Committee's first sub-opposition, the Government proposed time limits in the planning process. These entered into force on 1 July last year. The work on changes to the Planning and Building Act is therefore well under way. With regard to the other proposals of the Plan Law Committee, they involve major changes to current legislation. A thorough evaluation of the comprehensive consultation material is needed. Furthermore, the Plan Law Committee in its investigation has shown that some questions require further processing before the final legislative proposal is drawn up. The building part of the Law on Construction and Construction is also being reviewed by the Building Law Committee. According to the plan, the setting of the Building Law Committee shall be in place in spring 2005. Int. O. No 67 for 2002-2003 on time-limits for planning, the Committee on Energy and the Environment, in its comments, considered that the Stortinget will be dealt with as a whole a proposal under the Planning and Building Act. I would therefore like to await the outcome of the work of the Committee on Building Law, so that a comprehensive review of the entire Planning and Building Act can be carried out with a view, inter alia, to: improved interconnection of planning and construction materials.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-05.ana.ud155e1484	I thank you for your answer. The plan law committee's attitude was an extensive work. One of the very important issues highlighted by the Plan Law Committee was the desire for strong coordination of sectoral legislation in a comprehensive planning and building law, including: coordination of the pollution law with the Planning and Building Act. The plan law committee's attitude was also a clean-up, a simplification and a broader local democratic anchoring of the planning legislation. It would be a pity if this were not to be followed up politically by the Government, and that one should be careful just to make a little bit of proposals for changes in the Law on Planning and Building, as we have seen so far. It is positive enough in itself, but it is not enough to follow up the extensive work that the Plan Law Committee has actually done. I understand that this has to be more thorough assessments. My follow-up question is nevertheless: can the Council of State guarantee that a new planning and building law will actually be promoted in the light of the decision of the Plan Law Committee, with the consultations and subsequent work currently in progress?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-05.ana.ud155e1495	First of all, I would like to underline the importance of following up the things in the Plan Law Committee's position that enabled us to set deadlines in the planning procedure, which has been a workshop for many years, also in relation to making restrictions on how many times a person can complain about one and the same case. There we will have a new legislation in place and we will also have simpler rules. Today, we have a somewhat comprehensive regulatory framework, which we are trying to make simpler, easier to access and more understandable. With regard to the overall position of the Planlov Committee itself, to which it is now addressed, more than 200 consultation replies have been received. The Committee has also underlined the desire to deal with a proposal under the Planning and Building Act as a whole, which was also addressed by the representative. If I am going to do that, I am dependent on us actually also waiting for the work and suspension of the Building Law Committee, which is due in the spring of 2005. Once it has been consulted, it would be natural to promote an overall proposal. I don't think it's right to see the two things separated. Nor did I understand the representative who wanted a comprehensive legislative work for the Planning and Building Act as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-05.ana.ud155e1502	I see that there is also a need to be able to await the decision of the Building Law Committee and the hearings that have taken place around the Planning Law Committee. What worries me is if the right-wing party now wants to be led by sector interests not to coordinate the sectoral laws of an overall planning and building law, as proposed by the Plan Law Committee. Coordination, I think, is extremely important if you are to be able to achieve further simplification of the planning and building law system. I agree that there are some things related to deadlines and things that it has been important to promote individually. But the promotion of things individually must not lead you to believe that you have followed up the decision of the Planning Committee. I therefore expect that, out of the response of the Council of State, I can interpret a clear yes to the fact that a proposal is being made for the coordination of the sectoral legislation provided by the Planning Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-05.ana.ud155e1509	What the representative can draw as a clear conclusion of what I said was that I also relate to what I have understood was a wish from Stortinget, and in fact also indirectly in the representative's first post, that we have to look at the plan and building law together when this is to be dealt with first. And it is not possible to do so until the setting of the Building Law Committee is available. When it is available and has been consulted, an overall case on the Planning and Building Act will be promoted. So I notice with interest that implicitly in this question, it is that the government will continue this work. But then we're talking about the spring of 2006. I would also like to be in the situation that I can participate in promoting a comprehensive law in this area together with the Minister for Municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-05.ana.ud155e1516	Yes, it was predicting the future! We're now going back to question 17.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-05.ana.ud155e1525	I have a question for the Minister for the Environment: ‘Copper is an environmental poison the environmental authorities have prioritised among chemicals to be significantly reduced by 2010 at the latest. Emissions of copper to water are increasing in Norway, and further increase is also expected. What do the authorities intend to do to achieve the objective, and will the Council consider prohibiting the use of copper where full alternatives exist?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-05.ana.ud155e1534	The government's objective is to significantly reduce copper emissions to the environment compared to the 1995 level by 2010, which the representative is also concerned with his question. I'm busy achieving this goal. The latest SFT report shows that the total emissions of copper have decreased by 30 pst. from 1995 to 2001, a reduction of more than 200 tonnes. Emissions to water are decreasing most, and emissions from the industry are decreasing most. There is also a decline in emissions from products. So it's not like copper emissions are increasing, they're reduced by about one-third. However, it is an objective to further reduce emissions. Although copper is dangerous for the environment, it is significantly less dangerous than many other pollutants. Therefore for some purposes copper is an acceptable alternative to even more hazardous pollutants, such as TBT, chromium and arsenic. Without accepting the continued use of copper in some applications, it would not have been possible to stop emissions of even more hazardous pollutants. Different products contribute to more than 70 pst. of the copper emissions, where the note impregnation in the farming industry and the use of bottoms on boats are the main sources. The release of copper in the washing and impregnation of nuts in the farming industry has caused significant environmental damage to the purse seines. That is why, in the autumn of 2002, I established a ban on such emissions. It also contributes to better framework conditions for technologies and practices which are completely without the use of copper or other environmentally hazardous preservatives. In the case of bottoms on boats, it has been possible at global level to agree to halt the use of endocrine disrupting pollutants TBT from 2003. Norway strongly contributed to this global ban on TBT. However, there are not yet adequate alternatives to copper-based fuels that have been developed, I have been informed. In order to stop the use of wood containing even more dangerous heavy metals — chromium and arsenic — the use of copper impregnated wood is currently acceptable. The comment on the regulation prohibiting impregnation with chromium and arsenic states that even if the prohibition does not include copper, copper is to be sought by alternatives. The same is true of the substitution requirement of the Product Control Act. For impregnated wood, there has been a tearing product development. There are now good alternatives that neither contain copper nor other heavy metals. Increased practical experience with copper-free alternatives will provide a basis for increased substitution of copper-based preservatives with less environmentally hazardous alternatives. I believe there is a need to consider further measures to achieve a significant reduction in copper emissions by 2010. In the feedback on SFT’s reporting, I would like to ask for an assessment of possible further measures against products that contribute to copper emissions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-05.ana.ud155e1558	I thank you for your answer. I believe the Minister for the Environment understands the main use I have been aiming for with this question, which is what is going on in wood. Otherwise I have to say that I share the Council's assessment that we've got rid of the worst chemicals, like TBT, chromium and arsenic. That's where we're on the whole line. But because there has been a ripple development, in fact also in Norwegian, in terms of alternatives to the use of copper in wood, we want the Council of State to be somewhat more offensive in terms of saying that when we have good alternatives, we don't have to use this environmental poison in that context. In addition, the fact that Norwegian companies will also benefit from the World Patents on any of these technologies should in this way not be a disadvantage to the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-05.ana.ud155e1565	When it comes to being more offensive, I registered that the representative did not comment on the fact that I stated that it has been a 30 pst. reduction in Norwegian copper emissions between 1995 and 2001. So there has been a sharp reduction in copper emissions, which is not the premise of the question, where it says that there has been a sharp increase. In the case of impregnated wood, it is a joyous development that environmentally friendly alternatives are now available. However, emissions from impregnated wood account for a relatively small proportion of the emissions of copper – less than 2 tonnes, or approximately. 4 pst. It is because most of the substances will remain in the wood when it becomes waste. Therefore, in order to assess measures that provide adequate target achievement for copper, it is necessary to assess measures for all uses. That is why I am now asking the SFT to review this in order to see if there can be tools beyond those we use today, which can be cost-effective and sensible.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-05.ana.ud155e1572	It is true, as the Council of State says, that emissions have been reduced since 1995. The problem is that the emissions in the last two years have had an opposite curve of what you've had before, but of course you can choose the starting number you want. This is, of course, due, inter alia, to: that we've got the worst away, but then in a way we don't have to let the second best be the enemy, when we have technological opportunities available. I registered that one of the Minister's colleagues during the election campaign was very concerned about this matter and visited the company Kebony, which has alternative technology for wood impregnation. He stressed that this company has a technology that allows us to improve the quality of Norwegian timber, so that it can be a good substitute for the tropical wood that unfortunately is still in the Norwegian market. There is no doubt that the companies involved in these technologies want a more stringent approach from Norwegian environmental authorities to help create environmentally friendly jobs both in Norway and perhaps in other countries in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-05.ana.ud155e1581	I would probably have interpreted my answer in a somewhat more appropriate way than the representative now does, but it has to be up to herself. I have asked the SFT to go through the various instruments available, so that we can achieve the objective even more by 2010. As we know, no other country has imposed a ban on copper in products such as impregnated wood, nor by note-taking. As far as the last relationship is concerned, a regulation prohibiting it in Norway is laid down, so that's where we've gone in front of it. So what we're now discussing is a relatively small proportion of the emissions of copper – less than 2 tons, or about 2 tons. 4 pst. – as the representative then believes I should ban above the table, as the only country in the world. There must be consistency between the environmental challenges and the instruments used. But now I'm not denying that we're going to look at the totality of this. That's what SFT is going to do. Then I also believe that the company, which obviously has a very exciting and important environmental concept, is best served by following this and marketing the positive side of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-05.ana.ud155e1588	That sounds good. We're going to go to the last question in this questioning.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-05.ana.ud155e1596	I would like to ask the Minister for the Environment the following questions: ‘Mjösa’s white swan, ‘Skibladner’, is at risk of being banned from sailing due to: no derogation is granted in relation to the problem of sewage. Can the Council of State help this old, venerable boat so that it can still sail to great pleasure for all the passengers it has and will be able to carry in the future?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-05.ana.ud155e1605	I believe that the representative must be satisfied with this answer, because yesterday I granted an extension of the exemption for «Skibladner», as the press also says. With this decision, I have placed the decisive emphasis on the continued operation of ‘Skibladner’ as one of the country’s most important protective vessels. However, the consideration of the water quality in Mjösa suggests that efforts should continue to be made to find a solution that is both hygienically and antimicrobialally sound.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-05.ana.ud155e1612	I thank the Council of State for a positive response and a positive decision, and I would also like to congratulate it on that decision. Now, what's noticed is that this is not a new problem. On 1 November 2000, I asked the same question to Siri Bjerke, Minister for the Environment at the time, and received almost the same answer. But now you have a slightly longer postponement, and we all hope that we will achieve this. The goal is there, but the way out there can be a little bit squiggled. Maybe it's about economics. I remember that in 2000 the conversion would have cost approx. One million. kr – I stress that it is about the number of persons – if possible. It cost approx. NOK 100000 in operation, and it is facilitated by practical means to create a good treatment of emissions. However, we are hoped that we can contribute jointly to the continuation of the “Skibladner” sail, including during the 2009 and beyond sailing season. This is a boat that, if I remember correctly, is 148 years old, so there are some practical problems that might show up.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-05.ana.ud155e1621	Now, after intervention by the Ministry of the Environment, ‘Skibladner’ can at least sail until 2009. Then one will try to find a solution that is antiquariously sound, as well as environmentally sound, so that one can handle the sewage from “skibladner” in a proper way. In the case of any support for these measures, the national product also has a grant budget which it could be appropriate to apply for, provided that it is possible to do so within the limits of the antique qualities contained in the boat. It has turned out not to be very simple.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-05.ana.ud155e1628	I thank you once again for your answer. I also believe and hope that we will get to the goal. But there are some deadlines here, and deadlines are good, I think. That is said on 1 April 2006, and that is said by 1 April 2008. But we have hope, as I said, that we will jointly be able to solve these practical problems and that the economy is now in place. As I understand it, the Council of State now says that there may be opportunities to seek financial support as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-05.ana.ud155e1635	I have nothing more to add.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-05.ana.ud155e1640	That being the case, it is no. 1 finished.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-05.ana.ud155e1651	There is no record.
