ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-10-lower.ana.ud127e35	At the request of the Committee on Family, Cultural and Administrative Affairs, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that three lines of reply be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-10-lower.ana.ud127e44	The changes in the marketing law that are being passed today are an attempt to curb a phenomenon that has irritated many of us for a long time. Hopefully, the new legislation will be an important step towards making our job life even brighter – if you succeed. The problem we're talking about is mass e-mail advertising, or what we're talking about in everyday language with the English word'spam'. Most of us are well aware that so-called spam acts as an irritating moment in our everyday lives, by the fact that it pops up like spam on the screen at all times. It's in the way and still has to be removed. At the same time, we know that this phenomenon is causing great costs to society. Both private and public enterprises must bear these financial burdens. In addition, spam also represents a safety risk. Combined with viruses, for example, cause major damage. Used for so-called spy software, the possibility of obtaining sensitive information from closed registers is open, e.g. on personal and private matters. One variant is the one where it can be used to map our consumption habits, then target or tailor-made sales messages to individuals and businesses. Here, it's probably just the imagination that sets limits. The background to the proposed amendment is Article 13 of the EU Directive on privacy and electronic communications. It is a question of prohibiting the transmission of electronic advertising to all natural persons without their consent. It is also prohibited today to send such e-mails to consumers without their consent. The amendment now adopted is a similar prohibition on workers and traders being able to receive unwanted e-mail advertisements. I would like to draw attention to the fact that there is also an exception in the case of marketing directly to my own customers via our own customer registers. The Government's proposal follows mainly the EU directive, but differs on one point. The Directive states that the requirement of prior consent shall apply to ‘subscribers who are natural persons’. The government bill states that it only applies to ‘physical persons’. The proposal provides a full justification for the choice of formulation made. There has been some disagreement among the hearing bodies, but most support the Government's proposals. It should also be noted that the different EU countries have chosen different solutions and that our neighbouring countries Sweden and Denmark have used the same solution as proposed by the Norwegian Government. The proposition also contains some other minor changes, but here I refer to the proposition and the notes in the setting. I do not find reason to elaborate on this in more detail the moment there is as broad an agreement on the various proposals as it may be. A unanimous committee agrees with the legislative amendments. The Progress Party and the Workers Party have made a proposal to combat spyware, so-called ‘ad-ware’/‘spyware’. There is no reason to disagree with the point made by the Progress Party and the Workers' Party here in relation to the phenomenon – on the contrary. However, when several of us do not support this proposal, it is probably due to more uncertainty about what is really in it and what the scope of this proposal will be. Therefore, I would like to pay close attention to recommending the Government to look at this with spy software in its further work and possibly come back to Stortinget with changes at a later stage if it finds it necessary. It remains to be added that the legal ban adopted today is hardly enough alone to address this problem. It's rare that laws alone are sufficient in that context, so there's a responsibility here also on other agencies in society. Not least, I would like to point out that the ICT industry itself must take responsibility and go into the fight against this obscurity.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-10-lower.ana.ud127e65	You might be able to make a humorous point that my speech today is handwritten. This is a matter which interferes a lot with the everyday life of the computers, and it is a mere coincidence that the script is handwritten this time. Those who are active users of computers know — or should know — the term ‘spam’. As the rapporteur said, this is simply about the mass dispatch of e-mails that have not been requested. In some cases, this may be advertising for serious products. In most cases, there are unprofessional products or direct attempts at trickery, fraud and fraud. Last week, this was one of the main themes of one of CNN's broadcasts that addressed the problem of what the Americans call "fishing", which we can translate into Norwegian: fishing. There are attempts to get people to give their personal identity number, credit card number, etc., for the purpose of cheating money from them. We are in an area where the terms can confuse: ‘spam’, ‘fishing’, ‘spy-ware’, ‘ad-ware’, ‘worms’, etc. What is simply about are bandits and unprofessional marketers who want to run people for money. The problem is that only a few of these are active and operate from Norway. To a large extent, it is about gavage related to the United States or more exotic countries, with little or no regulation in this area. The legal decisions we are making today are well suited to protect Norwegian consumers and Norwegian employees in companies from over-industry operators from Norwegian companies. But it doesn't help much for the majority of the problem, which is foreign. It is good to get legislation in place in Norway and a number of European countries, but it is also important to focus on this with countries outside Europe. Here's my hope that the government can do a job. It is, after all, a good consumer policy, and it is that spam is involved in making the Internet less efficient. The Progress Party will go slightly beyond what the Government proposes in its proposal, by promoting, together with the Workers' Party, a proposal for a ban on so-called spyware, ‘ad-ware’/‘spy-ware’, where users have not given their explicit permission to do so. Of course, we are pleased with our cooperation with the Workers' Party in this context. We are also pleased that the rapporteur now indicates that he hopes that the Government will take a closer look at this specific issue. Hopefully, the government will come back with something concrete in this area, such as: is a problem for the individual's privacy and in the case of fraud and that kind of thing. In doing so, I take up the proposal from the Progress Party and the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-10-lower.ana.ud127e82	The representative Ulf Erik Knudsen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-10-lower.ana.ud127e85	In other words, the legislative proposal to be dealt with now concerns the prohibition of unsolicited electronic marketing. Electronic spam or spam is currently a major problem for users of e-mail and the Internet. Both privately and on the job, the inbox is filled in by e-mail advertisements that you have not asked for, and which are most often undesirable. For individuals it means breaking up and irritating to have to clean up all this e-mail you don't want. For enterprises, this means loss of efficiency. In particular, the trust in the Internet as a channel for communication and e-commerce will be undermined. I have noticed that there is no disagreement in the committee on the legislative proposal itself. I would nevertheless like to briefly review the main proposals. First, the population being protected from spam and the like is expanded. Today it is prohibited to send electronic advertising to consumers without the prior consent of the recipient. The legislative proposal requires prior consent from all natural persons. This makes it clear that workers and entrepreneurs, who are natural persons, will not receive spam on the job. Secondly, a new exemption from the pre-consent requirement is introduced for e-mail advertising to own customers. For example, the book clubs do not require prior consent when sending e-mails about books to their members. However, there shall be a simple de-registration option for the customer, i.e. that he or she should be able to say stop at any time. In order not to dilute the general rule on pre-consent, it is important that the rule of exception is interpreted in a narrow manner. I'm glad the committee is behind this. The Storting has previously asked the Government to investigate what should be lawful in the case of so-called ‘tips a friend’ functions in the case of e-mail marketing. The issue is dealt with in the proposition, but there are no legislative proposals to this effect. The general clause of Section 1 of the Marketing Act and the guidelines given are considered to be sufficient regulation. Finally, I have noticed that the Committee points out that it is unclear to what extent sanctions and enforcement responsibilities towards natural persons other than consumers are well respected. To this I would say that the Department is facing a major revision of the Marketing Act. This issue will be addressed in the context of the assessment of the marketing law’s sanctioning system in general. In the case of the minority’s proposal for a ban on surveillance by means of spyware, I would point out that this is partly regulated in the eco-regulation §7-3 and in the provisions of the penal code on data breaches, § 145, second paragraph. The government will come back to the matter if it becomes relevant. If necessary, this may be a matter for the Data Crime Selection to assess.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-10-lower.ana.ud127e102	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-10-lower.ana.ud127e110	The odelsting shall then vote in case no. 1 on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-10-lower.ana.ud127e117	During the debate Ulf Erik Knudsen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Labour Party and the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose that spy software, known as ‘ad-ware’/‘spy-ware’, should not be used to monitor other people’s ICT equipment without the user’s explicit permission.’ The proposal will be sent to Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-10-lower.ana.ud127e247	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-10-lower.ana.ud127e257	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-10-lower.ana.ud127e268	There is no record.
