ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-16.ana.ud1215e37	Representatives Anne Berit Andersen, Jan Sahl, Haakon Blankenborg and Sverre J. Hoddevik, who have been licensed, have once again taken their seats. The called alternate of the South Tribute County, Karin Galaaen, has taken the seat. Requests for permission to attend the NATO Parliamentary Assembly in Italy have been submitted to the Advance Party Group on Tuesday 16 November by the representative Per Roar Bredvold. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The application shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The representative of the goods, Johnny Hult, is invited to meet during the period of leave.3. Johnny Hult is elected to the Lamentations for the time he meets the representative of Per Roar Bredvold.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-16.ana.ud1215e77	Johnny Hult is here and wants to take a seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-16.ana.ud1215e95	With the reasons that lie in our remarks, we are going to vote against the proposed increase in remuneration.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-16.ana.ud1215e100	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Fooding, see page 386]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-16.ana.ud1215e115	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fooding, see page 386]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-16.ana.ud1215e130	A four-year action plan was adopted in 1997 to strengthen the municipal care services and, in particular, the provision of services to people over 67 years of age. The aim of the plan was to increase the capacity of services, improve their quality, ensure that users are provided the most comparable on a national basis and better government governance. The purpose of the National Audit Office’s investigation has been to analyse the extent to which the objectives of the Action Plan for Old People’s Care have been met and to present and discuss relationships that may shed light on any missing target achievement and municipal diversity in the care of the elderly. It was also a goal to analyse how the add-on arrangements and their management functioned in relation to the objectives of the action plan. The Riksrevision concludes that the coverage rate of sick homes, old-age homes and care homes in relation to the number of older people aged 80 and over appears to increase in line with the target. The forecast for the overall coverage of residential and care facilities is 32.5 per year. 100 inhabitants over 80 years of age in 2005, compared with 26.4, which was the starting point when the plan was adopted in 1997. Care services have been given increased capacity by having received 12000 new annual works. Anyone who wants to do that is getting a little over with. The share of one room space is 95 pst, versus 83.1 pst. in 1997. In addition, half of all hospitals are newly built or fully refurbished during the action plan period. I, and the rest of the committee, join the researcher Tor Inge Romeur, who has coordinated the Norwegian Research Council's evaluation of the action plan, his words: ‘It is rare to see such a high level of achievement in general government.’ The majority, with the exception of the Progress Party, are largely satisfied with the implementation of the action plan for the care of the elderly. At the same time, I find it useful to highlight the fact that several other groups in the care sector take note of the initiative. The initiative was aimed at the whole care sector. One sees it, among other things. for users under 67 years of age is the group that has had the strongest increase, e.g. Younger people with disabilities and people with mental disorders. Thus, one cannot ignore the fact that the needs of these groups have been underestimated from the outset. The Christian People's Party is concerned that all groups should have an equivalent offer as needed, and is pleased that this bias in service provision has been corrected gradually. The National Audit Service believes that a total of 25 000 more health care centres and care centers only represent a standard highlight and not a monthly capacity increase. This is enough to some degree right. On the other hand, capacity is a multiple variable. Following the implementation of the action plan, the new bus and service provision has been organised and organised in a completely different way. The practical implementation of the reform has probably saved society from spending on treating even more bad backs than we already have, not talking about spending on health and social security. In my municipality of residence, the press has characterised the standard of the new hospital ward as ‘hotel standard’. All care services must be based on the needs of the individual user. This was also the starting point for the development of sites within the action plan. However, the Committee is uncertain as to whether this criterion has been decisive when the municipalities decide what form they would give priority to. The system of grants in the action plan, together with the distortive effects, related to different legislation on the payment of users, support and financing of medicinal products and aids in the two types of housing, the hospital and care facilities, may have an impact on the scale of the development of care facilities. After listening to several of the major actors in the care area, the core of the conflict seemed to be attached to the fact that it is relatively unclear which can be defined as whole-day care and care. Regardless of definition, I'm glad that the majority in the committee believe that good care and care can be provided both in the nursing home and in the nursing home, as long as those who live there receive a care offering that is large enough and of high quality. Here I would like to commend the Government both for having taken up the cases where the Health Authority has pointed out that there has not been sufficient help, and for having started to fill the new dwellings with content, by following up the housing reform with a quality reform – through the Storing Message, which was handled by the Storing now in ours. The action plan is closed, but a lot remains. Among other things, we're facing a population that's getting older, which means that it's getting older. New measures will be required for both housing and services. The challenges of care for the elderly are therefore fully present, and I think that the committee has been well developed. It is therefore very interesting and encouraging to note the results of a study conducted by SINTEF on behalf of the Norwegian Medical Association, the Association of Nurses and the Trade Union. Good leadership, organisation and empowerment have a positive impact on quality. Increased manning may not give you an increased quality. Found in the report, the Government thus supports its policy of developing quality in the care sector. Of measures that are partly in progress or alerting, I would like to mention: one, in cooperation with KS, supports the establishment by all municipalities of a quality system before the end of 2004, the development of quality indicators, the implementation of user surveys and the publication of quality results, ensuring, in cooperation with the KS, better management and quality of service provision through the leadership project ‘Flink with people’, ensuring the quality of service provision through a common regulation on the quality of municipal health and social services. The Directorate for Social Affairs and Health will publish a guide to the regulation during the fall to ensure access to professional staff by following up the actions in the health and social staff recruitment plan to increase the focus on professional skills, attitudes and professional practices in cooperation with the KS In summary, I would like to say that the management report provides us with important knowledge of the situation of municipal elderly care in Norway today.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-16.ana.ud1215e172	As the rapporteur explained, the Riksrevision has carried out a comprehensive and thorough examination of the action plan for the care of the elderly, and I conclude in all material terms on what the rapporteur has said in this matter. The underlying plan numbers have been reached to a very large extent, and so the Storting must be satisfied with the implementation of this plan. However, let me give some general consideration to some of the challenges we face in terms of our ability to improve and further develop the offerings to the elderly, which the Riksrevision has also affected in an excellent way in its report. Firstly, there is a need for a clearer understanding of the real needs. There are relatively clear indications that there is a great lag in the offer of lucky day staff. That was the situation before the action plan, and that is the situation after the implementation of the action plan. If we look at hospitals, we have a common understanding of what a nursing home has been. There is a dwelling where older people with high care needs have the necessary services around them, available 24 hours a day. If we take this offer, it looks like, based on the reports and the information we have, that it will be missing approximately. 14,000 such sites in Norway in 2005. Now, as the rapporteur said, it is not a clear and unambiguous definition of the concept of ‘good luck’, which includes: create problems in providing a good basis for the forward-looking work. County officials, county councillors and municipalities themselves have certain variations when determining the day-to-day care. I will be allowed to quote what Dr. Sigurd Sparr said during a hearing that was conducted in connection with this matter. Spar represented the National Association for Public Health, and he said the following: ‘Although we do not have any definition to which we have general agreement, we do have a common understanding of the concept that suggests about the same thing that has been said here, that it means that there are competent personnel and sufficient personnel close enough to the patient, so that he or she can get help in a very short time when necessary. It implies, as far as I can see, that a health home model, where there are staff in the same house where the patient lives, must be a kind of starting point, that there is a system in which the patient can summon this staff at any time in the day, and that the staff will arrive in a very short time.» It will be necessary to gain a common understanding of this concept, and I assume that the Council of State will find the opportunity to contribute to this. Another issue we need to face in the coming years is to ensure that care for the elderly is provided in all areas and at all levels sufficient and qualified personnel. I'm not going to make any attempt to give any complete recipe for what needs to be done to get this to, but I think there's some relationship that's pretty obvious. First of all, we must recognize that this is an increasing problem. It will be that there will be greater and greater problems for us in providing qualified personnel for this community service if we do not base good and functional plans in the future. It is no longer the case that we have large reserves to take off in our professional life. Elder care has to compete for well-qualified personnel for these tasks, and then we have to put conditions well into it. The subject groups in question need to be better able to specialise in the areas concerned than at present, and it is necessary to facilitate the development of professional environments. There is also a need to facilitate — many better than today — the possibility of careers in the care of older people for the occupational groups concerned. Last but not least, in this context, there must be room for individual offers to the residents. These professional groups have chosen their professions because they want it and find it useful to take care of us when we are sick, when we are old, or when we need their skills for other reasons. It is therefore unlikely that we will be able to recruit these groups, if we offer a working situation that consists of running between patients and constantly being in arrears in relation to the offers they understand the residents need and want to benefit from. The plan of action was a promise. It shall not in any way be underestimated. However, care for the elderly cannot – at least not just – be further developed through shipper’s roof. We need to keep a constant pressure on each other to ensure the necessary progress forward. I also think there can be a lot of money to make sure that the elderly even in a stronger and perhaps more formalized way than today are involved in shaping tomorrow's care and offerings to the elderly. In the end, I have to say that when we discuss care for the elderly, we cannot do it isolated from the financial capacity of the municipalities. It would be pointless to take good care of the elderly in Norway if we do not at the same time ensure that the municipalities have the financial capacity to follow this up. I don't know if the picture will be very good, but I guess it's like asking someone to melt butter out of the skimmed milk. As far as I know, it's a very twisted exercise.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-16.ana.ud1215e205	At least it's a long-term project.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-16.ana.ud1215e208	The review and evaluation of the action plan for the care of the elderly by the National Audit Office has been very useful and has actually brought good knowledge both to the administration and to the Stortinget. However, what may have come into the cold water of the investigation is what I actually find most interesting. The monitoring hearing carried out by the Committee revealed a somewhat different picture of the situation from that of the common public opinion, namely that, after the implementation of the action plan, care for the elderly is in place – now the situation is good, now we can look forward to a good old age. That picture was completely shattered in the hearing, and there were several who clearly indicated that there was a need for a kind of alarm in the challenges of the elderly care system and the quantity of care for the elderly in the years to come. It was also pointed out quite clearly that the action plan and its development, especially when we look at it afterwards, are more characterised as a housing reform than as an old-age care reform. Because there is no clear and unambiguous definition of what can be considered to be the provision of services and care by lucky days, it has been shown – as the National Audit Office’s study also reveals – that where there are nursing homes with relatively minimal provision of care, watchkeeping, etc., it is included in the concept of ‘sales services and care’. That means that what's not really a nursing home has been calculated in that category. Then, as both the president of the Medical Association and the head of the Nursing Association said, it becomes more a housing reform than an old-age care reform. This was also made clear in the hearing, including: from the central association of municipalities, that there were different practices in the municipalities by how to put their different care services into these concepts. That's why there was an inflating of the figures for what we in daily numbers rain as a nursing home, but that's probably called the happy day care offer, where a good number of other types of housing units also went into the numbers. That is why I have allowed myself to come forward with a proposal to ask the Government ‘ensure the establishment of a clear and unambiguous definition of what is to be done in order to ensure that an offer can be regarded as a service of good luck’. I heard Kjell Engretsen say that he thought it would be natural for the Council of State to take care of this. As this is a very important problem, which no government has ever addressed and provided in the past, so that the information provided by individual municipalities can be checked and asked if this is really a service and care provision for good luck, such a definition needs to be made. No one has done so before, and that is why I think it would make sense for a decision to be taken on the occasion of the case. I realized that the Labour Party's representative had the same principle view of this as the undersigned, and since also the Socialist Left Party is behind the proposal, it should be natural for us to take a decision, so that the Council of State in its fight against various forces within the ministry and elsewhere that will point out all the difficulties and problems of making such a definition – because I am pretty sure that some in the departments, and especially in the Ministry of Finance, who always think about crowns and ears, and not so many people, will have a huge number of examples of how difficult it is to make such a definition – may have a collapse decision and a imposition in his back, so that he can tell his office that here it is not a question of whether a definition should be made, but of how the definition should be. That is why I am referring to proposal No. 1st@item: inlistbox I think it is of great importance that the Stortinget puts in place that we no longer want to have the situation that is particularly revealed in the hearing, which is seen as an attachment to the setting. In particular, the information from the Medical Association clearly shows that we have too few hospitals today. In terms of that statistics, it's known how many older people we're going to be in at least the next 50 years, because they're already born, so you can know how many are there? When you look at the number of places, the Medical Association overview says that the goal is that there should be a sick home for 25 pst. of those over 80 years of age. If you have it as a norm at 25 pst. of which over 80 years will require hospitalisation, there will need to be 14 480 additional places by 2005. It's next year. So we're going to have 14,000 spaces at the bottom of what's necessary. There must be 26 to 480 more seats by 2030 and 41 to 730 by 2050. When the public and political situation is really such that we have completed the development of care for the elderly, because the action plan has been implemented, and then, just like everything else, this is quite alarming figures and alarming information. There was a black confirmation of my question as to whether there was a reason to call an alarm, and then we got a response from both the Norwegian Nurse Association and the Medical Association that yes, that was it. The situation was also confirmed by the representatives of the National Association for Public Health. That is why I also refer to proposal No. 2, which reads: ‘The Government asks the Government to provide a notification to the Storting on how the objective of an offer for the maintenance and care of 25 p.m. by the population over 80 years in the period up to 2030, can be reached.’» We're not done with the action plan. We would like to have a new, not really action plan, but: How have the Government and the administration thought that we should have a sound level of both quantity and quality in the care of the elderly, in the future? Thus, the National Audit Office’s investigation has revealed that we do not have a pre-built care for the elderly – on the contrary. We've come to a good start. It's doing a lot of good work, but the challenges are huge. And when, as we are now discussing, we hear in the news today that in a Norwegian municipality you have to put down 62 sick homes, which is probably almost half the number they have, because of what is said to be bad economics, there's no reason for us to be satisfied with the state of things. I imagine that you have to look more closely at the organization, even in other parties. Kjell Engebretsen had as its starting point an automatic idea that the municipalities should be responsible and connect it with the local economy. Then we are back to the fact that when it is the responsibility of the municipalities, Stortinget does not have an opportunity to decide anything about the care of the elderly. If the municipalities choose to build sports halls, cultural houses, town halls, great sports facilities and very expensive roads, so that there is no money left for hospitals, it is the responsibility of the municipalities. That the municipalities in other areas do not have a proper offer, I accept, but I do not accept that you do not have the same right to a proper health care place or an elderly care service throughout the country, regardless of who controls the municipalities, and how they prioritise. That's our starting point. That's why we want it to be a state financial responsibility, by the money following the user, the elderly. We also want freedom of choice in the care of the elderly with regard to who is to perform the service, or to run the hospital, so that you are not deprived of the freedom of choice because you start to get up in the years, a freedom of choice you have in every other context in the past. We want freedom of choice. Then we want a system where the money follows the user's choice of supplier or relative's choice. I would also like to ask the Council of State to launch a study, a rapid assessment, on the extent to which we can also make use of research and experience in other countries regarding the RUG system, i.e. not the DRG, which is the payment system in hospitals, but the RUG, which can be a payment system in the care of the elderly. It says, for those who had to cheat on it, for the Resource Utilization Group, a payment for patients or residents in a nursing home based on the need for care they have. Then there will be different groups. Someone needs a lot of care. Some people need a little. Then there will be different rates per. 24 hours or per day. months. In such a system, it would be the same as with unemployment benefits and sickness benefits, the money would come from an estimate based on the real need – which, of course, had to be managed by public authorities today. When the need for a sick home place was approved, the money would automatically come to the hospital home or the family elected. Then it wouldn't be the way we read about it in the newspapers, that there are sick homes because there is a lack of money, while there is actually no shortage of qualified residents. We want a ringing, a state funding, of this. I challenge the other parties to start thinking about how they can provide care for the elderly in this house when we have no control over how the money is spent. Finally, I would like to bring up with the Council of State another theme that I know very many relatives are concerned about. This is the significant lack of information that is perceived as being related, perhaps especially to demented elderly people, but also to other elderly people entering hospital homes. We have both laws and rules, and we actually have regulations on the quality of nursing homes. But the relatives get no information, no information, when it is that your mother or father has become a dent and come to the hospital, that this is the situation, this is the legislation, this is what you can expect from the hospital, this is the manning, this is the information, the details about who washes clothes, who is responsible for things in the room at the hospital – a lot of practical daily tasks that there is no information about. What do you do when clothes are gone, possibly stolen? What is the code? Do you have permission to give your mother a bottle of red wine that she can have in the room, or isn't it allowed? There are a lot of practical things about which there are almost no information activities. I allowed myself to ask the representative of the National Association for Public Health, to consult Sigurd Sparr, about this. He says: ‘It is also true that we have examined in our association whether relatives and patients are familiar with the health regulations and the quality regulations. We've been studying it, and it turns out there are strikingly few people who have been informed about the regulations that apply to hospitals. Actually, there is a requirement, in an indicative instruction for hospital staff, to make such information, but we see that it fails to a great extent." I would like to ask if the Council of State will take an initiative, so that when you get a patient in a nursing home, there is to be a written message to the relatives where there is a part about laws, regulations, rights, payment rules, including things that the National Association for Public Health also supports. I want it to be a completely different information both to those who are users of care for the elderly, before they come to the hospital, and to relatives, so that you can make use of the efforts of the relatives, and so that the relatives on behalf of the resident can also check whether the quality, offers and activities of the hospital are within the regulations that apply, and how you can possibly complain, to whom, and what the rules for such care are. I allow myself, as I mentioned, to take up the two suggestions included in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-16.ana.ud1215e247	The representative Carl I. Hagen has taken up the suggestions he made.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-16.ana.ud1215e250	I would like to join with the rapporteur and other speakers on both the action plan and the Riksrevision report. This study shows how important it is for us to have a national audit that provides management reports to enable Stortinget to acquire knowledge, as the rapporteur just said, to learn through evaluation and follow-up of its own decisions and plans and to see if the course needs to be corrected. I also agree with the representative Carl I. Hagen said that the hearing that we had gave a somewhat more nuanced picture of the plan than what is – let's say – the picture outside. There is no doubt that many older people have been better off after the power cut that has taken place, both because there has been a plan and because there have been funds to inject into the care of the elderly. More targets have been reached, including: the goal of new hospitals and nursing homes. As a result of the standard raising of dwellings, many older people with a high need for care have had a higher level of living. For someone who has been around hospitals, it is not difficult to see that it has led to much more well-being and easier work, because hospitals and nursing homes have become better built-up, so it is easier to work in. But – and there I share the vision of Carl I. Hagen – this has become a housing reform. Not that something is wrong, but we need to look at what this reform has done. What this study shows is that many older people do not get the help, the care and care they need, for example. because the municipalities have to a large extent built up nursing homes, also for those who had needed a sick home place, with the requirement for staffing that applies there. I have therefore been working on this plan as the Committee has done, asking me many times: Is it so that after this large expansion it is as difficult to get a sick home place as it was before the plan was implemented? Unfortunately, I think the answer to that is yes. Now the majority – and SV is part of it – say that elderly and others in need of care can get good luck and care both in hospitals and in nursing homes. The crucial thing, as the rapporteur said, is that those who live there receive a care offering that is large enough and of high enough quality to enable them to get the help they need. It is therefore important to follow developments closely, both by the county and county council members and by the Stortinget, because the municipal economy means that there will be no more jobs in home-based care and in hospitals. On the contrary, we are now told that it cuts down on the number of posts. In Bergen, for example, the health sector has now been cut by a total of 142 million. kr. Clearly, it will be of great importance to care and care and to the operation of the nursing home. As the representative Hagen said, this morning we were informed that a municipality, Notodden, has plans to lay down almost half of the hospital places. And KS can report that half of the country's municipalities are now planning to cut down on care services. One of the major challenges of the Norwegian welfare state in the years to come will be to provide a worthwhile offer to people who grow old, because they will need care and care. It's good that the council recognises that it's a way to go before everyone gets it, he actually did in the hearing. But there will be troubles when the government is not willing to take a power cap for the local economy. That is why I want to challenge the Council of State to see if the local economy makes what is now made of offers coincide like a card house. I want to challenge the Council of State to see if there is any reason to fear that the housing will not be filled with the quality, the content, that the Storting wants. I don't think it's like the local politicians don't have the same wishes as the Stortinget have. I believe that municipal politicians want older people to have a worthwhile offer. I think it's to a large extent the local economy that makes them see themselves now forced to cut down on this offer. There are some challenges ahead. The community economy is one, but another challenge is that home-based services also need basic staff to ensure qualitatively good services for all those who need it. We know that in many places the basic staff is not good enough, and this leads to many municipalities having difficulty recruiting and holding qualified personnel. It has something to do with pay, it has to do with opportunities for further training and it has to do with part-time problems. Many choose part-time because the work is hard and physically stressful, but many help nurses, carers and nurses are forced to work part-time for the tour to go up. I just heard about an assistant who has a whole three part-time job within the care and care, because she must have a salary to live on. That is why we in SV believe it is important to work for the right to full-time, but the possibility of part-time. Another challenge is medical coverage in hospitals. Elder medicine can be complicated, and its competence is also needed in hospitals. Sick elderly people are admitted and are discharged to municipalities more quickly than before. Many who used to live in hospitals are now in hospitals. It requires much better interaction between municipalities and specialist health services, but it also requires a different competence in municipalities than before. Then it is alarming that a report from SINTEF reports an availability of medical services of an average of 10 minutes for those who have a place to stay in hospital, in some cases down to 3 minutes. It makes sense to call on the decision-makers to participate in this work, as the Committee has done, but we cannot avoid strengthening the care of the elderly if the elderly — and more of them — are to be treated properly. A third challenge is the financing mechanism of the specialist healthcare service. Effort-driven funding based on DRG credits makes profitable patients easily preferred – profitable patients with simple disorders. It has a previous national audit report that we have discussed, namely shown. In other words, the ISF system can easily lead to occupational economic thinking in hospitals. Older patients with rehabilitation needs and complex disorders are not ‘rewardable’ patients in an ISF system. That is why I am concerned that the negotiations on the budget have now resulted in the ISF system having a greater place in hospital funding. In our opinion, it will stimulate faster printing and swing door spacers, as we have seen so far, which is unworthy of the elderly and leads to pressure in the municipalities. It is now necessary to clarify what is to be done to ensure that an offer is considered to be a good care offer, not to solve all problems, but it appears from the report that ambiguities here have led to the fact that not everyone is receiving the assistance that the elderly in need of care. And here I share Mr Hagen's view that what is the opinion of the Storting should also have emerged in voting. Then we believe that Stortinget must receive a message about how an organized offer for happiness and care for 25 p.m. by 2030, the population aged over 80 can be reached. SV is in agreement with the Progress Party on these proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-16.ana.ud1215e284	The Central Party does not have members of the Control and Constitutional Committee, nor did it attend the extensive hearing in this case. As usual, the Riksrevision has done extensive and thorough work, and the study provides a good background for the Stortinget for a debate on the reform of the elderly and whether it has worked or not. The aim of the Riksrevision study has been to assess whether the action plan for the care of the elderly has been followed up. At the same time, there has been a purpose to look at the grant schemes and their management, and whether the funds put at the disposal of the State have gone for the purpose for which they were supposed to go. With regard to the action plan for the care of the elderly, the Riksrevision concludes that it ‘has brought about a standard increase but, to a lesser extent, an increase in capacity’. It's interesting to notice. Furthermore, with reference to the control tasks of county and county doctors, it is possible to conclude that the funds made available to increase the activity in the care sector have been used for this purpose. From this point of view, it does not appear that there have been leakages to other sectors. This means that at least the municipalities seem to have fulfilled their obligations, and I think that is good, so that we do not get a response game between the state and the municipality in this case as well. I want to go back a little bit to what concerns the increase in capacity and standard lifting. At the end of the discussion of the action plan on the table here in Stortinget, we had a request from the municipalities of the country to extend 9 400 seats. There were sites that were applied for on the basis of the recommendations of county doctors, and from the point of view of treatment in the House Bank. Compared to the 9400 places, the government's answer was that it would contribute 2,000 places. As a result of the landfill treatment, it was added in a further 3000 places. So the answer to the request from the Norwegian municipalities was to build 5,000 places, compared to an application mass of 9,400. The centre party already believed that this was wrong. We wanted to meet the wishes of the municipalities on the basis of the application mass that was. It wasn't a random number, it was an application mass that was thoroughly thought out, and we thought it was right to contribute to the construction of all places. Now we see that there would have been a need for this capacity, and probably in a few years' time there will be a need for additional places in the particularly health care sector. The fact that the old-age reform has been a housing reform more than an old-age care reform, I think I should join – there are several speakers who have been involved here. It is good that we got an upgrade both in number and in quality in terms of living conditions for older caregivers, but there are several things that remain, and that should be obvious and visible challenges for everyone, not least the content of the service and that one still has too little capacity and too much bad luck care and care. Another thing that makes the challenges ahead very many is that the elderly tree is coming too far towards 2020–2030. These include: It has now been pointed out that possibly 2000–2500 new hospitalisations are needed due to the increase in the number of people over 75 years of age. What is happening in the hospital sector today and in the specialist health service is building hospitals. In particular, local health places seem to be seriously affected by the reform of health enterprises. It really scares me. I believe that the interaction between specialist health services and care services in municipalities and primary health services needs to be much better, we need a decent and proper care for the elderly in the future. First of all, we should make sure that we have hospitals and treatment places for the sick elderly, so that you do not get them as a burden on the nursing homes. At the same time, there must be enough capacity in municipalities to allow these patients to be taken back and cared for, and there must also be a primary healthcare treatment that is adequate. This, along with the phenomenon we are now seeing in the context of the health reform, with an increasing number of swing door spacers, makes me very concerned. Many elderly people have more illnesses and should have more diagnoses. But what often happens is that these elderly people get hospitalized acutely for one disease case, get a diagnosis after that, are treated quickly and sent back, and then at the next turn to come back for both that diagnosis and a new diagnosis. So there is no full diagnosis and treatment in our specialist health service, and so it is mainly these that end up as swing door spacers. And then I'm going to use an expression that's not respectful, but I think many of these older people today are being treated as parcel post. They may be sent directly from home to hospital in the specialist health service, then back to the hospital, with a view to getting them back to home, and this is how this round dance goes. If you want to make an older sick person confused and even worse, we have to keep doing this, but I think it's unworthy. I think there needs to be a much more thorough review of the care of the elderly in the border country between the specialist health service and the primary health service, care and care services, at municipal level. Then there is the question of the quality of nursing homes and municipal care. It is too bad today, in my opinion. There has been talk about the medical coverage, and I agree that it should get better. It should also be in my opinion that you have at least some beds that have the nearest hospital standard. With the hard-handed printing that health businesses are now doing, for example: by no longer talking about pre-treated patients, but about ready-to-print patients, hospitals and primary health services are increasingly burdened with nursing and treatment-intensive patients, and then it should be upgraded at our hospitals. I have little faith in the two-way service in this context, among other things. Assuming that then there will be another stop on this parcel round that I talked about, and I think that is unworthy. I think that those who need more than care, that is, some more medical treatment, have to get it either in hospitals, and primarily there, or in a nursing home, where they should be like in a home. The doctors also have to get a kick in the back of getting more interested in old age diseases and geriatrics, and that is what we need to do first and foremost. General medical training needs to be strengthened, and career paths in this area need to be improved. The same applies to geriatrics, and you have to get more specialization in geriatrics. Similarly, nursing needs to be made more attractive in relation to care for the elderly and geriatrics, and it needs to be reflected in both basic and continuing education and career paths. The same applies to other care professionals. Then we talk about well-being and a full range of services also in the care sector, and then it's important to rehabilitate. Both physiotherapy and ergotherapy capabilities are needed, and logoped is also needed to improve the condition of the elderly after disease, not least after strokes. The qualities of the daily environment are also a little in focus, I think. There must be enough people, plenty of hands and hearts. Hygiene, food, activation, culture are also factors of well-being, and what makes you have a holistic and good care for the elderly. With the economy that the municipalities have today, this is largely utopia. But I believe that if we want a society that we're talking about as a welfare society, with a real care ethic, this is the one that we also need to include in the debate about whether we've been successful in caring for the elderly, or at least whether we're going to succeed. Care ethics are very important, I believe, if we can say that we have a complete offer and a complete thought here. Money is very important, economics is important to provide enough staff, well enough staff, and also to have good enough quality content in the rest of the world to have a good old age policy for the oldest generation. Soon we'll be there, and if we don't plan now, we'll at least see a much bigger chaos and many more violations in the care sector when we get to 2020-2030, because that's when it really will come to light, and then I think it's okay to be a little lead was. If we had some overcapacity now, I'm not in doubt that that overcapacity would be more than utilized when we get to those years. The Directorate for Social Affairs and Health, in cooperation with the State Health Inspectorate, has been given the task of developing a new and comprehensive quality strategy for social and health services for the 10-year period until 2013, a 10-year period that we are at least one year into now, and it is high time that we received the Government’s long-alarm notification, a major communication on care and care services for the future. The long-term challenges are already here, and that's why it's a bit of a shame, and as an outgoing big business representative, I'm a little sorry, that this big business message is not being presented in this period. I would have liked to be part of the treatment. I also think that due to the time and the problems we see here, that big message should have been submitted a long time ago. It also has economic aspects; not least, such a notification and plan should be passed on to members of the general government because it costs to have quality, and we have to make sure that the resources are there. At the same time, there are also other economic aspects here, in relation to what the patient is going to pay for, how self-employment 2 is going to work in relation to the care sector, etc., and this should have been in place at least during this period, so that we had been notified this winter. Moreover, I agree with the two minority proposals that have been promoted here from the Progress Party and the Socialist Left Party, and I would recommend that the members of the Central Party vote in favour of them, so that we get a clearer definition and definition of, among other things. happy day care services, what this costs, and what kind of economy and organization it takes to have a proper coverage of this when we get to 2030. I really think that we should have had clarity for a long time before. And I'm not sure about 25 pst. by the population over 80 years is the right number when we get to 2030 either. If the life expectancy goes up and the amount of older people gets as big as we can predict, I think we need to have a greater percentage coverage then.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-16.ana.ud1215e314	There has been an interesting debate in the sense that the Riksrevision with a relatively broad pen can be said to have a conclusion that this is a plan that has gone according to the plan. The discussion in Stortinget today has been very much about what we should do in the future. It is also a very important debate. Let me just say right away that in the case of the big message that Ola D. Lukewarm mentioned, it's definitely in a frame in relation to the time we've reported it coming to Stortinget. It will, of course, address many of the elements that have been raised in this debate. Whatever the case, we are at least pleased that we can today deal with a matter in which most people agree that we have achieved the important objectives we set in 1997, when the Action Plan for the care of the elderly was adopted in Stortinget. And as I said, I guess we can sum up the Riksrevision conclusion that we basically have a plan that's gone according to plan. This is not always the case with the plans that have been adopted and that have been attempted. Both the National Audit Office and the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs concluded that the action plan for the care of the elderly has achieved the objectives set, compared to the 12 000 new annual work for nursing staff in hospitals and in home care. We have had an increase of more than 5,000 new hospitals and more than 22,000 new nursing homes. The single-room reform was finally implemented, with a single-room coverage of 95 pst., and the standard and quality have been significantly increased by a replacement and upgrading of old-age and nursing homes. The majority of the Control and Constitutional Committee, on the basis of this main commitment, is satisfied with the implementation of the action plan for the care of the elderly, as set out in the opinion. The Committee shall display, inter alia: to the researcher Tor Inge Romeur, who has coordinated the Research Council's evaluation programme of the Action Plan. He writes in his report: «It is rare to see such a high level of achievement in general government.» I myself sat on the Social Committee when the Action Plan for the care of the elderly was adopted in Stortinget, and I know that it came because the municipal health and social services had not been able to keep pace with the growth of the elderly. We were simply in arrears and had to take it back again. At the same time, municipalities had to be able to meet further needs increases as the number of older people continued to grow. We found it necessary at that time to use completely exceptional state instruments, both to develop capacity and to upgrade the standard at all stages of the care chain. It is the government's view that the municipalities have followed up the action plan and that the results are well in line with the concrete objectives laid down at the time of the adoption of the action plan. However, on the basis of 1997 it is necessary to extend both the investment framework and the action plan. Therefore, excavators and carpenters are still in full activity in Norwegian municipalities to complete this action plan. In fact, there are still about 10,000 nursing homes and nursing homes under construction. Most of them will be completed as foreseen by 2005, but some municipalities have been postponed for another year or two. Ten years have passed since this action plan was launched. One side of the plan of old age that, in my opinion, has not received enough attention is the many old and worn-out institution buildings that have either been completely taken out of operation or modernised. Many were clean fire traps, many had double or multibed rooms with common bathroom/WC, often at the end of a corridor, and many lacked lift and wheelchair availability and for bed. Many had a physical work environment that caused injury to employees and long sick leave. Now half of all nursing homes we have are either newly built or fully modernized during the action plan period. I have no doubt that the upgrading of the building mass of the care services has had great positive effects, both for those who live there and for those who work in the care sector. Should we recruit new employees for this sector, such as: part of the representatives have been involved, and retain them, we need to facilitate relations in this area as well. The municipalities have chosen to implement this action plan differently. They have modified and adapted the solutions to local needs. It is therefore sometimes difficult to see differences between care facilities with health care standards and nursing homes with similar care housing standards, on which some representatives have been involved. One example is the municipality of Os in Hordaland. In one of its institutions, the name of a nursing home has been retained, but various care homes have been built in connection with this. It is a permanent staffing centre, but the residents pay rent and share for the home services. Such examples of local sensible adaptations are many of them throughout Norway. No people and no municipality have exactly the same needs in this area. The local adaptation of the action plan has therefore been absolutely necessary to ensure a good offer for users. However, as the Committee rightly points out, the possibility of providing good care and care will depend on adequate and qualified staffing. There is reason to recall that the action plan for the care of the elderly provided the municipalities with 12,000 new posts. According to the calculations in St.meld. No 50 for 1996-1997, one half was to be used to strengthen home services, while the other half was to contribute to the development of the 6,400 places of good luck and care in hospitals and nursing homes. However, the successful implementation of the action plan for the care of the elderly has not solved the main problems and challenges of Norwegian care for the elderly. It's just a step on the way. Thus, after focusing on quantity and on the development of spaces, housing and annual works, the Government, in close cooperation with the Municipal Councils, has solved the qualitative challenges, i.e.: to look at the content of the service, management and organisation, competence and recruitment vis-à-vis employees and perhaps not least in relation to supervision and procedures in municipalities. The government’s objective for care services is to ensure the quality of services for individuals. Services shall be designed on the basis of the individual's wishes and meet individual needs in a sound manner, irrespective of their social status, their personal economy, their place of residence or their form of residence. The strategy for improving the quality of care services received broad political support in Stortinget through the treatment of St.meld. No 45 for 2002–03 Improve the quality of municipal care services. The government is concerned that there is a need for individuals to control resource efforts and staffing in the services, and not centrally defined standards. This view is supported by two new research reports from SINTEF: Manning and services in nursing homes and operational variations at 9 hospitals — a qualitative approach. The reports are commissioned by the Nursing Association – I kept saying by everyone – the Trade Union and the Medical Association, and state that there is no automatic link between manning factor and quality. I will actually take the opportunity to praise the Nurses' Association, which in its press release to the report has the following honest comment: ‘The Sintef report does not support our demands for a standard of living for all occupational groups as an instrument for improving the quality of the service of patients in nursing homes.’ The challenges of the future in this area cannot be addressed through nationally defined manning standards and coverage levels. However, together with the Nursing Association and others, we will work to improve the quality of supply through the most effective measures. According to the SINTEF report, the main contribution is to improve the quality of building and an environment that provides opportunities for development of skills. Cooperation with relatives and interactions with other services is also an important factor in ensuring good quality. The reports thus support the Government’s strategy in the Quality Communication in order to strengthen management functions, build skills and improve recruitment. In order to achieve the objective of providing users with services tailored to their own wishes, we also need to be willing to give users more power. The user choice of care services gives each individual greater influence over their own everyday life. Together with the municipalities, we will work to ensure that more people are given freedom of choice in relation to care services. The principle of individual organisation of the service provision is also underpinned by the recent NOU 2004:18, the wholeness and level of social and health services. The Bernt Committee considers that individual needs should form the basis for services, regardless of whether the recipient lives in a nursing home, a nursing home or at home. This investigation shall now be carried out at the hearing. The government is going to make sure that we meet the future prepared. Longer life expectancy and high birthrates in the post-World War II period, our society faces major challenges, but also new opportunities. The new "senior society" will be the theme of both the Government's perspective message and the work of the Pension Commission. Furthermore, the Government’s senior council has been asked by the Government to draft a proposal for a senior policy programme covering all aspects of social development, with an emphasis on active ageing. In this context, we are now working in the Ministry of Health and Welfare with a new communication on the care services of the future, where we want to outsource the course for safe and good services for the elderly and disabled in the future. The message, as the representative of Lutvold emphasised, will come after he has resigned from the national Parliament. I hope, however, that the Social Committee will be so well-managed that it will be able to deal with it properly. I have noticed that both the National Audit Office and the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee believe that different payment schemes in hospitals and nursing homes may have resulted in unintended distortions in relation to the development patterns of municipalities. We work on these issues in connection with the message. Today, we are going to go through a task that is soon to be done. The action plan for the care of the elderly has been one of the most important initiatives or projects implemented in public Norway. It is the government's view that the municipalities, the housing banking offices, the state officials and all those who have been involved in this work have largely implemented the action plan in line with the objectives and intentions of the Stortinget at the time of its adoption. Whether this was enough is another matter, and you will have the opportunity to come back to it. I will take this opportunity to comment on a few questions raised by previous debaters. One was linked to a proposal in the position that goes on what is meant by good luck and care. There's a lot of such concepts that don't have a legal definition. The vast majority of these terms don't have that. It is nevertheless such that the Storting through St.meld. No 31 for 2001-2002, when we spoke about the completion of the action plan for care for the elderly, had a definition of what we talked about that 25 pst. the care of the population over 80 years of age should be provided successfully. Then there was a listing both of the care homes, in the case of old-age homes, and in the case of nursing homes. I see it as a significant minority who will vote in favour of such a proposal. I also believe that the representative of the Workers' Party would find it appropriate to clarify what the exact content of the concept should be. It would be natural to make such a balance in the context of this big message, so it would definitely be possible to come back to it, because it would be beneficial to have an agreement on the content of such a central concept as a norm on the percentage of a certain population to have a given offer. The representative Hagen pointed out that in many institutions there was a lack of information for the relatives. I have to give that to the representative Hagen right in that it is. It's the same in the somatic field, and so is the psychiatry. There is no doubt that we have focused too little on the situation of relatives, dependants are bit by bit of the process that is taking place when we are trying to treat our sick or our elderly. To the information of the assembly, I can say that 14 days ago I was in England, looking at just these issues, which are dealing with the information and participation of both patients and, not least, the relatives. In fact, it is already before Christmas to be held a meeting with all the stakeholder organisations who have pointed out and been concerned about the matter raised by the representative Hagen. I intend to receive national advice in relation to the care of the elderly, where it is the municipalities that are the operator. But for hospitals, where I also have the operational responsibility, there is going to be a completely different kind of quality assurance of the information that goes to patients and relatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-16.ana.ud1215e383	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-16.ana.ud1215e391	The store is ready to go to voting in the cases on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-16.ana.ud1215e436	Mr Valle has asked for the floor to be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-16.ana.ud1215e439	I just want to make it clear that SV will vote against the proposed increase, as we have said earlier. I want it to go forward here.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-16.ana.ud1215e444	The president thought there was no doubt about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-16.ana.ud1215e498	During the debate, Mr Hagen put forward two proposals, the proposals No. 1 and 2, on behalf of the Party of Advancement and the Socialist Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-16.ana.ud1215e517	The Labour Party agrees with the proposals put forward here. When we do not vote for them now, it is because today, as expected, the Council of State has confirmed during the debate that these are matters that will be taken care of. We do not think it necessary for the Stortinget to take these decisions, so I recommend that the Labour Party vote against both proposal No. 1 and proposal No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-16.ana.ud1215e522	The President then sees it as voting on the two proposals together, that there is no reason to split them up at voting time.
