ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-23.ana.ud379e34	From the European Parliament’s delegation to the 2004 session of the Council of Europe, second part, in Strasbourg, there is an application for leave, signed by the Head of the Delegation, the Grandfather Haakon Blankenborg. The application concerns a period of leave from 27 April to 29 April for the representatives of Haakon Blankenborg, Martin Engeset, André Kukkestad, Per Erik Monsen and Elsa Scarbøvik, and on 27 and 28 April for the representatives of Bent Höie and Jorunn Ringstad, respectively. This application is proposed to be examined immediately and to be accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The first alternate for the Vestfold County, Inger Møll, is currently abroad and is therefore prevented from meeting at Stortinget. The following alternates are proposed to meet during the leave period: For Akershus County: Harald Espelund For Uppland County: Reidun Gravedahl For the Rogaland County: Inger Lise Aarrestad For Sogn and Fjordane counties: Liv Signe Navarsete For Vestfold County: Inger Lise Hansen and Vidar Andersen For Eastfold County: Gretha Kant – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Inger Lise Hansen is proposed to be elected to Lagtinget at the time she meets the representative of Elsa Scarbøvik. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-23.ana.ud379e113	At the request of the Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 10 minutes to the Christian People's Party and 5 minutes to each of the other groups. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of response be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-23.ana.ud379e120	In the examination of the 2004 budget, an increase of 12 pst in the percentages of medical, psychological and physical therapy was adopted. from 1 January 2004, which was to introduce a self-proprietary application in the middle of a contractual period. This meant changes in negotiated fees between, for example: the State and the Norwegian Medical Association, which in turn led to new negotiations between the State and the Medical Association with the following results: part of 35 SEK for simple contacts per person letter and telephone contact without subsequent prescription, reference or medical notice supplement in a proportion of DKK 15 for consultation and medical visits by general practitioners specialising in general medicine supplement in a proportion of DKK 21 for consultation and medical visits during medical care The proportion of 35 SEK for simple contacts per person letter and telephone was a brand new type of trade. I was personally familiar with this through enquiries from the press on 30 December 2003 and was very surprised at the result. On the same day, I stated in a letter to the Minister of Health that the Department had to look at this matter again with a view to finding another solution to the self-proclaim. My reason was that this kind of peculiarities could hit very unfortunately, among other things. having regard to the fact that in very many district municipalities and municipalities, telephone contacts are used in a way that is favourable to both patients and doctors, and which may be economical in that patients will meet in the medical office to a lesser extent than is currently the case. Attendance at a doctor’s office means, in many cases, skyscraping costs and higher fees from a doctor. It should also be possible over time for a greater proportion of the doctor-patient relationship to take place. Phone. I was pleased to see that the Minister for Health had already given answers on 2 January, including: expressed: ‘I am therefore concerned that in the forthcoming negotiations on the standard spring tariff, the State will aim to correct possible adverse results of the self-proprietary increases carried out from 1 January of this year.’» The Social Committee has then brought the matter under Document No. 8:20 for 2003-2004, promoted by the Socialist Left Party, which has the same starting point for addressing the matter that I had, and which I referred to in my inquiry to the Minister of Health. In the mention of this proposal by the Minister of Health in a letter of 23 February 2004, he summarises: ‘The negotiations in December were complicated by the fact that self-promotion was to be carried out in the middle of the contract period, and the present outcome is clearly unlucky. I have therefore initiated a dialogue with the Norwegian Medical Association in front of the spring roof stoppage. In the light of the experience we can then summarise, it is my position that the State should aim to correct the possible adverse results of the self-promotion applications carried out per person. 1 January.’» The majority of the Committee considers that the new proportion of telephone consultations is unfortunate and that it must be re-examined during the negotiations on the standard tariff in spring, while the minority clearly states that the part of the matter has to be removed. But then a joint committee says that it assumes that adverse adjustments from 1 January 2004 will be corrected at the spring peak, and has confidence that the parties will jointly arrive at a good solution to the problem of equity. Yes, I think that will happen, and the message from Stortinget to the Minister of Health should not be misunderstanding after this. This means that the proportion of simple contacts per person. letter and telephone without subsequent prescription, referral or medical notice will be lost after the spring's normal tariff negotiations are over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-23.ana.ud379e156	On the basis of the budget debate of the Stortingen, new negotiations were held with the Medical Association and the State. The result was an extra charge of 35 kroner for simple contacts per person. letter and telephone contact without subsequent prescription, referral or medical notice. There was an extra charge of NOK 15 for consultation and medical visits by general practitioners who are specialists in general medicine, and a supplement of NOK 21 for consultations and medical visits during medical care. The background for these changes was that the Storting did not accept the Government’s proposal for an increase in self-participation, but chose another device to do so. In view of this, the State had to renegotiate with the Medical Association in order to make changes to the tariff system. There's a lot of one that could say about the debate that followed after this, but there's two things that I'm going to draw up. One is that such a measure of the handling of the legislation to which the Medical Association had joined, which was something special. Some of the most glaring examples drawn in the press were not relevant and were outside the scope of the change. The second was the presentation of the background of the proposal, and it was quite special to see that so many doctors who were a member of the organisation that had negotiated this result, obviously went out against it. That being said, there is every reason to say that there is an absolute basis for reviewing this in the negotiations with the Spring Games Association. But it is important that the Stortinget, although having views on this, does not undermine this negotiating institute in the middle of a period of now overrule a result of such negotiations. I believe that the State and the Lege Association as partners will be able to find good solutions through the negotiations that are and the framework for the negotiations. There is also reason to point out that perhaps such an unfortunate effect is that one has received a two-stroke system related to general medicine specialists. We have a fixed medical system in Norway. This means that most people are largely awarded a permanent doctor, and there will then be different peculiarities, depending on whether this specialist is a specialist in general medicine or not a specialist in general medicine. It is also a matter that the Committee has pointed out that there is reason to consider. But we will await the outcome of the negotiations that will take place in the spring.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-23.ana.ud379e169	The present case has a principle political aspect which is not mentioned in Document No. The 8th proposal or in the position of the Social Committee, namely that when different political constellations come forward to the State budget and make a settlement, a third party is often taxed or taxed, in this case the patients, who have received a new tax on sickness by having to pay a balance for the necessary telephone contact with their doctor. Of course, this extra tax particularly affects elderly and chronically ill people who have a greater need for regular telephone contact with their doctor than younger people. This has not least to do with a sense of safety for the patient, but it has as much to do with the importance for the treating physician of being able to follow up on whether side effects arise from initiation of treatment and medication. It was therefore quite timely that the proposers of Document No. 8:20. This matter arose so quickly and asked for the new self-payment for telephone calls to be removed. The outcome of this case is the way I understand it, not in any way given by the treatment in Stortingen today. As I see it, both the Government and the Workers' Party release a little too easily from the problem they themselves have created, in the present case. If one believes today that the proportion of telephone calls to doctors is unreasonable and unacceptable, one should, of course, have the same view on this matter before the scheme was implemented. On behalf of the Advance Party, I would like to reserve the right to come back to the matter when one sees the outcome of the negotiations with the Spring Medical Association. It is neither fair nor reasonable for those patients who have been randomly given a specialist in general medicine – as most general practitioners gradually become – to pay higher percentages than others without being informed of it in advance, as they sought a doctor’s list. Equally unreasonable, and perhaps worse, is the health minister's suggestion that particularly poor patients who need longer consultation time, and often elderly and chronically ill, pay a higher proportion of the same services. In general, the Progress Party believes that the proportions are high enough as they are, and that this new proportion introduced from 1 January, in telephone calls, should be removed effectively. I hope it is possible to obtain such a result without this excess being shifted from telephone enquiries and charged to other types of patients that I have mentioned.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-23.ana.ud379e182	The excess of telephone consultations introduced from 1 January as a result of the budgetary agreement between the Government Parties and the Workers' Party is only one of many examples of patients becoming balancing posts when the government budget is to be settled, whether on a proposal from the Government or through conciliation between different parties here in the Chamber, as was also the case with the representative Alvheim. If we look at the state budget for the last few years, the increase in the proportion of patients affected has been far out of the ordinary price increase. New excesses are introduced and old excesses are greatly increased. This is the general picture. In their State budget proposals, SV has opposed these increases. So the special feature we're dealing with here today is when patients call their doctor. This is a system with very many unfortunate consequences, in addition to the fact that there is a tax on disease, which is all the components of the healthcare system and which SV opposes. Firstly, many patients, especially those with poor advice, will be able to refrain from taking a phone call to their doctor when necessary. This could have very unfortunate consequences, not least for those patients who will initially reserve themselves against contact with the healthcare system. For example, it may apply to patients with severe psychiatric disorders, those with drug dependence or persons with chronic disorders. In addition to these moments, this is a very bureaucratic system that will capture valuable time from the individual doctor who could otherwise have been used for necessary patient treatment. One may ask himself whether the purely administrative costs associated with this scheme may in fact be as high as the reimbursement so far. I don't think it's far from the truth, and it just shows the madness of these kind of peculiarities. The SV therefore proposed that this excess should be removed as soon as possible, initially by 1 March. I am pleased that a total accumulation is now quite clear that this excess is to be removed in the spring's tariff settlement. There can be no doubt that that's what the Storting wants. The Minister for Health has said in a letter to the Committee that there will be changes in this area, as I interpret it. When we know at the same time that the medical association is not happy with this specialty, all conditions should therefore be in place for a completely hopeless system to be completed quickly, and that is a good thing. We had primarily wanted this to happen faster than it is now scheduled to, but because of the treatment period in the committee, that the normal tariff negotiations are now near at hand, and also the very clear signals from both the Stortinget and the Minister of Health leave us alone to promote an aberrant proposal. And then finally, I would like to stress that we don't have to end up in the situation that the excess that everyone now wants to remove is replaced by another excess that has many of the same unfortunate sides, because then we'll be equidistant. So it's going to be the challenge for the Department and the Council of State: to make sure that it doesn't happen through the negotiations that are now taking place.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-23.ana.ud379e203	The budget agreement with the Workers' Party led to an increase in the proportions of doctors by approx. 12 pst. It is rare that some cheers over increased peculiarities, but the husband of dissatisfaction is long since I have experienced. This time not only the patients protested, but also the doctors – despite the fact that the Norwegian Medical Association itself was involved in negotiating this result. One of the reasons for this was that one had to negotiate in the middle of a contract period for the standard tariff, which expires on 30 June this year. This time, of course, gives less freedom to deal with self-employment in such a way that it does not at the same time rock the income policy element of the agreement between the State, the KS and the Medical Association. The picture was extra complicated by the fact that the negotiated result was accepted by the specialists as part of the standard tariff, but not for the general medical profession. For the 60 pst. this means that a consultation of the prescribers who are specialists in general medicine costs NOK 132, i.e. NOK 15 more than that of other general practitioners. The Christian People's Party is pleased that the parties agree that a two-price system in the fixed medical system is unfortunate and should be corrected in the settlement of the spring. The Christian People's Party welcomes the fact that the Minister of Health, in a letter to the Committee, says that he will also correct possible unfortunate results with the new tariff for simple contacts per year. letter and telephone contact introduced on 1 January of this year. Telephone consultations have until this year been paid by the Rikstrygdeverket, i.e. no special interest for the patients. The fare is triggered either by the doctor calling the patient or vice versa. From this year on, the patient himself has to pay a gift of NOK 35. The amount does not seem large in isolation, but as an overall committee underlines, this may have unfortunate consequences. People who are in a difficult economic situation cannot contact a doctor even if they should. This, in turn, may lead to a break in the trusting relationship between the doctor and the patient. In the case of medical offices in the districts, one is totally dependent on telephone consultations. For many patients, this means that they let go of long trips to a doctor’s office. One saves skyscrapers, and one saves higher fees from the doctor in the presence. The fixed medical system leads to the doctor’s knowledge of his patients. Therefore, it is professionally sound with a greater degree of telephone consultation. This is a win-win situation for both patients and doctors. It has been found that doctors are charged a fee for the collection of the new excess. This is time-consuming, impractical and bureaucratic. A dispatch fee of up to 45 kroner is required, which is also charged to patients. The letter from the Ministry of Health on 2 January clearly states: «This is assumed to be covered within the framework of the basic medical allowance and the fees charged by the doctor.» I am pleased with this clarification. It is unreasonable for patients to pay for invoice fees. In conclusion, I would like to point out that many of the patients want to have a free card early in the year, and the doctors thus do not want to demand the new excess. The Christian People's Party is looking forward to the Minister of Health summing up the experience after six months with this speciality, and that they aim to correct unfortunate outcomes at the spring roof stoppage.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-23.ana.ud379e232	Until 1 January of this year, a telephone consultation with a doctor was refunded from the public interest, and this was seen free of charge for the patient, while from the turn of the year it was such that the patient had to pay up to NOK 80, in fact, divided into NOK 35 as a fraction and up to NOK 45 as a dispatch fee. It only emphasises that this scheme was more expensive bureaucratic than it was repayable. As you can see, this is a rather hopeless case. In view of the treatment of the State budget by the Storting and the budgetary settlement then concluded between the Government Parties and the Workers' Party, new self-proprietary arrangements were put in place in the middle of the contract period. There is reason to note that this – not just this time – occurs quite often. The representative Alvheim described it as a matter of principle. I would say that it is more an unfortunate and unfortunate practice that one gets such tax increases and changes as a result of budgetary ageing and settlement in a late night. The centre party believes – and has been thinking for several years – that self-interest increases should generally be avoided, and that the excess is high enough as they are, as a special tax on sickness and disability. We have voted against these increases in budgetary procedures in recent years. We think it is quite inconsequential that the government parties here say that one should not override the negotiating institute, that one should not intervene now, and that it is unfortunate that we should make some very strong objections. In fact, it is the government parties and the Labour Party that have intervened in the negotiating institute when one has to renegotiate these excesses in the middle of a contractual period. The size is in its entirety right when we say that we don't want to be involved, this has to change quickly. I'm, like some of the other representatives who have spoken to now, a little bit skeptical about what's going on this spring. A joint committee, based on the Minister of Health's assessments by letters sent both to the Committee and to the party groups, says that it will be possible to change the mechanism of the excesses and remove this excess in telephone consultations. But I'm afraid that it can be a change of ownership that just becomes a new form of propensity, in another and equally unfair way. I would like to ask the Minister of Health that, as far as possible, during these negotiations, a better system of self-interest, where costs are not only shifted from one to the next, at the patient's expense, and that perhaps the State can also be assessed through social security. There must be a good policy for some of the weakest in society. This self-promotion system at telephone consultations is at least such that it greatly affects the elderly and chroniclers, and perhaps even to some extent small children’s parents, who need quite frequent consultations with doctors for periods of time or over a long period of time. This is very unfortunate not least in relation to psychiatric patients, where the doctor should follow the patient closely and quickly, and here telephone consultations will be a good practice. There is also reason to say that in the community health service it is both practical and economical that doctors and patients can communicate by telephone. It also means savings of public money. So I think this is a scheme that one has to get rid of as soon as possible. I hope, therefore, that in the spring debate we can see that this is going to be gone, and that the big community may be able to take some more of the costs that patients are otherwise burdened with.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-23.ana.ud379e247	When examining the 2004 State budget, Stortinget adopted an increase in the proportion of its own resources, among other things. for medical treatment of 12 pst. The adjustments were to be implemented from 1 January 2004, i.e. in the middle of the period of the current basic grant agreement, operating grants and tariffs from 1 July of last year. This gave fewer degrees of freedom to adapt the increase in an appropriate manner, because it had to be done within an unchanged financial framework for doctors. Therefore, increases in existing excesses would require a reduction in other tariffs. On the other hand, when an increase in self-employment is made in the context of a capping process, it can usually be applied within the agreed increase in medical income, without a direct reduction of other tariffs. On this occasion, the negotiating situation brought about a solution with the introduction of several new excesses within the applicable fees. Among other things, establish an additional component for consultation and medical visits by a general practitioner specialised in general medicine. Thus, a two-price system was introduced in the fixed medical scheme. Both parties considered this to be an unfortunate solution, and concluded in a protocol submission that this fraction should be removed again at the roof stopping per. 1 July, if settlement allows. In addition, the tariff for simple patient contacts was per year. letter or telephone, so-called telephone consultations, converted from reimbursement to partial. It is this excess that is subject to the treatment of the Storing today. What is called simple patient contacts in the tariff system can be done at the doctor’s office by patients or by bids, or per. telephone or letter. Simple patient contact tariffs can only be used when the contact contains medical evaluation and advice, e.g.: due to a change in the patient’s condition or a change in the treatment schedule as a result of studies conducted. Often, the purpose of the contact is to renew a prescription or extend a search message. However, the tariffs cannot be used in connection with e.g.: hourly or simple notification of the results of the tests carried out. Until the end of the year, there was an extra charge of 35 kroner for all such simple contacts, except for contacts per person. letter or telephone that does not result in prescription, referral or medical report. This discriminates between different types of contact and a fragmented tariff system. By optimising telephone contacts, too, the basis was to clean up the various tariffs and to have a common tariff for all simple patient contacts, regardless of the contact form. This thus represented a simplification of the tariff system. However, I have no problem seeing that there are significant disadvantages both for the patients and the doctors in relation to the new proportion, as described in the document that is being dealt with here today. In addition, the question of billing fees on such small bills has contributed significantly to the irritation and to the reactions that have occurred. I think I can say that none of the parties initially had any desire to introduce new excesses into the tariff system, and no one is particularly satisfied with the result. I have had a meeting with the President of the Medical Association on these questions, as I notified in a letter to the Stortinget, and I can confirm after that meeting that we are both committed to actively contributing to the unfortunate aspects of the adjustments made in January, being corrected by the tariff negotiations that are now right around the corner.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-23.ana.ud379e258	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-23.ana.ud379e261	I find the Minister of Health both in his letter to me and in the letter to the Committee to which I referred in my post, and with what he has said here in the Chamber today, giving clear signals that adverse effects should be corrected. The Labour Party both respected and accepted that a reassessment of what was carried out from 1 January 2004 had to be carried out in the ordinary negotiations on the normal tariff. It is important that the will of the Storting is put into practice, and I am absolutely sure that the Minister of Health shares that view. So my question to the minister, in the light of what I have now heard from posts here in the Chamber, is, have there been any signs to the ministry that the introduction of this excess should not have been unfortunate? So, in other words, is it convenient to go on?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-23.ana.ud379e271	I do not think it is necessary to go around the pike in this matter. The Council of State is set to follow up what is clearly expressed in the Committee's position, and to balance it in view of the fact that the parties to the negotiations must conclude a new agreement. I think we should do that, both in respect of the will of the Storting and in respect of the fact that these are negotiations, and that they are two parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-23.ana.ud379e276	The letter from the Minister of Health to the Committee makes it clear that the Minister of Health believes that removing the proportion of telephone contacts, as the Minister of Health also states that he is positive, would have to cover the loss of income by increasing the proportion of other services. Special mention is made here of general medicine specialists and consultation time of more than 20 minutes. But there is another solution, and that is to correct the imbalance in relation to telephone contacts in the revised national budget. Or is it a thought that the Minister of Health doesn't have in his head?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-23.ana.ud379e283	To the representative Alvheim's question, I must say that as Minister of Health, and especially in recent months, I have received good training in having more thoughts in my head at the same time, and I am also trying that in this matter. My letter to the Committee refers to the situation facing the parties following the budgetary conciliation and the budgetary decision here in the Chamber before Christmas last year, where either these other tariffs had to be applied or new ones introduced. That's what's behind that problem. A regular ceiling cut-off will also provide an increased income framework for the profession in question — at least normally. It's usually the way revenue goes. And then you will also have the opportunity to finance all or part of such a change within an increased income framework. That's what makes you have a greater degree of freedom in ordinary settlement than in the middle of the contract period, as you can't increase your income.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-23.ana.ud379e290	I have to say that I am reasonably satisfied with the signals now given by the Minister of Health, and take it for granted that the proportion of telephone consultations will be removed on the first occasion. Then I was in my post concerned that when this excess is now removed, it must not be replaced by another excess that has many of the same unfortunate consequences, for example. for chronically ill. Will this also be an overall objective for the Council of State in the negotiations that are to take place?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-23.ana.ud379e297	I can't go beyond what I've already done, when it comes to adding leadership for the settlement that lies there. I have said that I will follow up the clear opinion expressed in the Committee's position. However, when I have been concerned that this change should be addressed in the ordinary contract negotiations, it is in order to have the opportunity to finance changes within an increased income framework and thus avoid the parallel increase in other excesses that are forced to be addressed in the middle of the contract period, as one had to do in January.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-23.ana.ud379e304	It's a lot about the same thing now, but what worries me and others here is what the Health Minister says in his letter of 23 February: ‘What excesses shall be introduced instead?’ Now I think there's a little bit of a different song in the pipe, by the health minister signaling that an increased income framework might be able to cover these expenses, and that this may be related to the revised national budget. That's good to hear. It's just before these negotiations start. Negotiations cannot go into, but we can be curious about the strategy and the proposals of the Minister of Health. I would like to hear what suggestions the Minister for Health will make in order to remove the excess in telephone consultations, without causing patients to be burdened with a different kind of self-interest.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-23.ana.ud379e316	The section of the letter of 23 February to which the representative refer relates relates to a situation in which these changes were to be made outside the ordinary negotiations, and thus there will be no income framework to eat from. Now this seems to be approaching a situation where we'll be in ordinary negotiations. It would then be totally wrong for me to say from the Chair of the Stortinges what that protocol will look like – before the debates are held. However, as I have notified the Stortinget, I have had a meeting with the management of the Medical Association, and both the management of the Medical Association and the Ministry of Health expressed in that meeting a clear intention to actively contribute to correcting the unfortunate aspects of these changes that have been the subject today in the context of the tariff negotiations that are now right around the corner. It should be fully satisfactory for Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-23.ana.ud379e323	Several have not asked for the word for a line. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Footage, see page 2522]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-23.ana.ud379e345	Private health services have gone from being a combustible policy theme to being accepted as a desired and necessary supplement and corrective to the public. Private health services have now become a small but very important part of the publicly funded health service for all. Although private hospitals and specialists make up a small part of the total capacity, there has been a positive growth in recent years. At the same time, waiting times and waiting lists have been reduced to a great deal of joy for patients. This is well illustrated by the fact that last year the number of waiting list patients treated with surgery increased by 3.5 pst. Private commercial hospitals accounted for nearly two thirds of this growth. It shows that it is very important to ensure this offer, in the interests of patients. The background to this interpellation is that I have a clear impression that the clear leadership of the Government and the Stortinges towards regional health companies in terms of the role of private hospitals and specialists is not being followed up to a sufficient degree. The leadership of the Government and the Biggest is clear through the budgets and governance documents of the last few years. The last time this was expressed was in connection with the treatment of St.meld. No 5 for 2003-2004, where a unanimous committee says it is: ‘important that private individuals have equivalent conditions in order to ensure long-termity and predictability in their operations, which are of benefit to patients’. Privates also have a responsibility towards their employees and have made large investments. They therefore need predictability. There are examples of enterprises not renewing contracts within the deadlines but allowing private subcontractors to make only verbal promises that ‘they will find a solution’. The RHFs are in many ways in a monopoly position and therefore have all the power in that type of negotiating position. Other undertakings conclude short contracts of only a few months and have very limited diagnostic groups in the agreement. The scope of the agreement is a challenge both for patients and for private hospitals. An example of this is the treatment in the context of breast cancer reconstruction. It is a treatment that takes many interventions over a long period of time. The problem arises when the contract is actually less than a complete process of processing in time. Quality should also be a significant factor in health enterprises choosing to buy services from others, but it seems that price is rather one-sided. I want to be the first to recognise the major migration challenges of healthcare companies, while already experiencing overcapacity in some areas. In such a situation, I can understand that it may be tempting to protect your own businesses and cut out private individuals with whom you have contracts. But it won't be acceptable with the type of lightweight solutions. Such a strategy will initially go beyond the patient and in the longer term lead to a reduction in the number of health bills left. When the Stortinget is concerned that private individuals should also be a corrigendum to the public, one believes, among other things. that the public can learn from the way in which private individuals organise their work, but also that regional health establishments are given the opportunity to compare their own activities with those of others, both in terms of price, quality and efficiency. Today, it is prevented by the fact that undertakings do not carry out bidding rounds in which their own activities compete with private individuals. When there are bidding rounds, it is private that competes with private ones. There are also clear indications that regional health businesses continue to use the individual section’s consultations to define what should be outsourced to private individuals. This allows us to see cases where a choice to cut out private offerings, even though the public offer is both more expensive and less expensive for society and patients. This highlights the dual role of regional health enterprises. They are both orderers and performers. This dual role is reinforced by the fact that some companies have chosen to place their own directors on the boards of local health establishments. This means that members of the board, with their personal responsibility for the total economy, meet themselves at the door as those who decide whether or not to compete with the undertaking from a private perspective. Experience from both municipalities and larger private groups shows that it is not impossible to handle such a dual role — which orders and at the same time owns one of the providers — but this requires great attention, competence and not least a very conscious organisation. It is clear to me that regional health companies have not yet managed to deal with this in such a way that they have developed confidence in their private subcontractors. I expect that the ability of regional health businesses to handle this dual role will be part of the evaluation that is now being launched by the reform and that the department will continuously assess whether to make demands on how these roles are to be distinguished within the current model. A distinction between the order and the execution role makes liability and division of tasks between the authority body and the service manufacturer clearer. It is based on contract management, where ordering defines the content and quality of the service and carries out is responsible for production and delivery in line with the order. If this is combined with tenders and competition, one will also ensure that one gets more health for the crowns. However, if the model is cultivated in the form of many orders, many contracts that are short-term and at the same time narrow in content, there is a high risk of increased bureaucracy, high administrative costs and a high need for expertise and resources in contract design and follow-up. Experience from countries that have tried this is not convincing. In both the United Kingdom and New Zealand, one went back to this system after the cost of red tape exceeded the financial gains. The aim of this interpellation is therefore not to address that type of solution. I would like to point out some essential issues that need to be improved: Privates must have long-term contracts that provide predictability both for business and for patients. The arrangements must not be designed to prevent hospitals from providing patients with full care. Regional health establishments must provide confidence that they are able to distinguish between the ordering role and the carrying out role. When using competition, quality and service must also be an element. Competition must also cover its own activities. The private part of the healthcare system must not be reduced. In the case of overcapacity, undertakings must not unilaterally protect their own business. Initially, I explained that after the reform was introduced, patients have received a significantly better offer, and the private actors have been given better framework conditions and have become part of the publicly funded offer to all. We're not going to forget this, even though the background for the interpellation is to bring forward the conditions that don't work after the intention. I hope that this debate can lead to these issues being corrected, and I look forward to an exciting exchange of views.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-23.ana.ud379e401	It is in health policy provided that private hospitals and specialists have a role to play in achieving health policy objectives. I perceive the interpellation of the representative Bent Höie as a question of how this is followed up and ensured. How can this be done, given the organisation that specialist health services have now received through the hospital reform? Let me first make a few brief comments on the starting point for the problem. Often, the contrast between public and private is produced as an almost fundamental political theme. There is no comprehensive characterisation of the organisation of healthcare in Norway. On the contrary, the organisation of specialist healthcare requires good interaction between public and private actors. The prerequisite for such interaction comes, for example: as expressed by three aspects on which the specialist health service is based: 1st@item: inlistbox The objective of equal access for the population to healthcare requires strong policy governance of the service. Among other things, the public has to take substantial financial responsibility. I believe that no one disagrees that there must be significant public governance of the service, and that this will provide a framework for the involvement of private actors in the service.2. Public service establishments, which are, in general, health businesses, will be the main providers of public health services both today and in the future. I also perceive that there is a broad consensus on this assumption. It is therefore not up-to-date to transfer a large proportion of tasks from public to private enterprises. However, within these frameworks, there is a good place for private enterprises, and they can play an important role in achieving the objectives of health policy – in some areas a more important role than today.3. The role of private enterprises should be linked to complementing, alternative and challenging public enterprises. It is also important that private representatives represent alternatives to the public service, i.e. that they can have other ideal or organisational approaches and user orientations that provide dynamics for the development of the overall healthcare system. Such interpellant points out, there are several challenges in dealing with private actors in the organisational model chosen by the business organisation. The five regional health establishments have been given the so-called responsibility to ensure that the population in the health regions is provided with the necessary health services. Therefore, through the annual appropriations of the Storting, they are allocated all material public resources to specialist health services. They are responsible for proper and comprehensive prioritisation and for ensuring that the funds are used as rationally as possible. In addition, they own healthcare companies in their region, i.e. the establishments which provide the largest part of the services to fulfil the responsibilities of ensuring that the population has access to healthcare in an efficient manner. I would like to highlight four challenges that today’s organisational solution provides – a good understanding of the challenges is important when selecting strategies and actions: Firstly, regional health businesses need to deal with their two roles in a rational, fair and – I would say – transparent way. Regional health enterprises must not use their position to protect their own enterprises when private enterprises can provide better solutions. Secondly, the achievement of health policy objectives is not just a matter of providing health services. A good health service is also concerned with emergency preparedness, preparedness in a broader perspective, decentralised provision, education and training of health professionals, research, etc. Good solutions for such tasks often need to be integrated with regular patient care. Private contributions to patient treatment must not weaken the assumptions for this type of purpose. But as I'm going to come back to, those tasks don't always have to be in the public sector. Contract relationships with private establishments entrusted with health care tasks of a duration and scope should focus more systematically on the provision of such broader aspects as education and research. Thirdly, it is important that private enterprises are given predictable framework conditions, as the interpellant pointed out. Private enterprises that have employees and invest in equipment must also be guaranteed a reasonable degree of predictability in public demand. It cannot and shall not be such that the private are used only in cases where the public does not have the necessary capacity. Fourth, in Norway, we have access to overcapacity for some types of treatment. The capacity must then be reduced, either in the undertakings or in the private undertakings. Such situations are particularly challenging with regard to the proper achievement of health policy objectives and that private individuals should have predictable framework conditions and be treated in an equivalent manner in relation to public services. So to the strategies and measures that can ensure that private enterprises are well used to achieve health policy objectives. It is central that regional health enterprises should be in charge of managing the use of private enterprises. These shall also be the organisational level at which contracts are concluded – this in order to avoid hospitals deciding whether to provide the services themselves or to purchase them from private individuals. The specialist health service shall be quality-oriented and dynamic. It should, of course, characterise the overall management of development measures by regional health undertakings in their own owned undertakings. However, there should be a similar focus on how the use of private offers can have the same effect. By virtue of the requirements laid down by law, undertakings and private undertakings may not, in practice, participate in the same competitive tendering procedures for services. They have different framework conditions and regional health businesses need to make overall decisions on the division of labour between the two sectors. These decisions set out the framework for private use, including the tasks to be set out for competition between private individuals. However, it is important to strive for as equal a competitive environment as possible for public and private service providers. Regional health enterprises face challenges related to the need for operational budgets to be balanced in 2005. Given the current organisational challenges and the challenges that the service is facing, there must be an overall follow-up to the fact that there are no unintended major shifts in the division of labour between the private and public sectors. The proportionate contribution of private enterprises to health care shall not be reduced by the processes that must be carried out in the regional health establishments. It will also be assessed whether to impose more horizontal requirements on how to organise the relationship between providing the for-roll and the role of owner of the underlying health care establishments. In the dialogue with private individuals, I record that many people are open to taking on tasks that go beyond the very provision of healthcare, for example. education and research. This possibility should be used more frequently when the assumptions justify it. The identification of the need for predictable framework conditions by private enterprises must be taken seriously. Therefore, the governance dialogue with the regional health undertakings provides guidance on tendering and contractual techniques that can take this into account, without unduly jeopardising the need for administrative flexibility for regional health undertakings. Techniques for this may include the conclusion of multiannual framework agreements and their combination with the conclusion of annual volume agreements under the framework agreements. This has been put into service and it will be assessed whether more should be done. I am not going to address this issue here, but I would like to inform you that in the 2005 budget proposal there will be a follow-up to the Stortingen's treatment of the gross domestic product report on the specialist healthcare income system in relation to the relationship with private X-ray institutions and laboratories. In the arrangement that will be presented there, the handling of the issues that I have referred to more generally today will be central. In the article I have focused on the relationship between health businesses and private businesses. Similarly, it is important that the relationship between private enterprises is managed in a qualified manner. I leave this as a key element to highlight and underline the importance of following contract, competition and tender legislation and follow-up. In summary, I would like to say that the Ministry of Health and Regional Health have a responsibility to ensure that private enterprises can play their part in the public health service. In the hospital reform, a model has been chosen without a unique organisational distinction between the order and delivery tasks. Although theoretically there were arguments for such a model, it was among other things. assessed that such a split model could lead to unnecessary red tape and resource use. But I fully agree with the representative, Höie, that, within the framework of such a principle of choice, the roles can be better clarified and cleared. Reference is also made to the assessments made in the Landfill Communication on the income system for the specialist health service and its treatment by the Storting, which provided for the continuation of such an integrated model. Once you have chosen such a model, it is essential to be able to deal with the challenges that result from it. The Health Ministry’s 2004 budget proposal points out that it is a key objective of the governance of regional health businesses to further develop and improve their management of their combined role as the manager of care and as the owner of the underlying health enterprises. In the follow-up work now taking place between the Ministry of Health and the regional health enterprises, it is central to establish a framework for private enterprises that are both predictable and rational in relation to the objectives of health policy. In conclusion, I would like to say that I support the message that the representative Höie had in his interview, that the relationship between private and public service providers, and in particular the management of their roles in relation to this by regional health companies, should and will be an important theme in the evaluation of the hospital reform that I have announced that I will present to the Stortinget a proposal in the 2005 government budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-23.ana.ud379e463	I would like to thank the Minister of Health for a good and important answer. I want to draw up in particular three parts of the answer that I believe are of great importance: that regional health establishments handle their two roles in a rational and fair manner. Regional health establishments must not use their position to protect their own enterprises when private enterprises can provide better solutions that cannot and should not be such as to ensure that private individuals are used only in cases where the public does not have the necessary capacity and last but not least that, in their response, the Minister of Health states that the proportionate contribution of private enterprises to health care should not be reduced by the processes now being carried out in regional health establishments. The latter is not least important in view of the new Patient Rights Act, which will enter into force for the autumn, where it is important that as a patient, it is safe to ensure that if the healthcare provider fails to discharge its responsibilities, there are, in fact, alternatives in place to give the patient its rights. I am also pleased that the Minister of Health indicates that it is necessary to assess whether more comprehensive requirements are to be made on how the relationship between caring for the role and the role of the owner of the underlying health business, and that it is emphasised that this role-sharing will be an important topic in the evaluation to be carried out by the business reform. However, there is one point in the answer that is new to me, and it is that the Minister of Health says that according to competition law, health businesses and private enterprises cannot participate in the same competition for services. I would like to ask the Minister for Health to answer in the further debate whether he will be able to come back to Stortinget on a later occasion with a detailed explanation of that issue. We know, among other things. from the municipal sector that the municipality’s own activities participate in competitive tendering with private individuals for services — including healthcare. I therefore have problems seeing the difference between this and the specialist health service. I would also like to join the Minister of Health's assessment that there are matters that are taken care of by our health companies, which have an overall function. Acute functions must, for example: not be weakened by the fact that activity is moved away from the enterprise.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-23.ana.ud379e488	The historical situation in Norway is that the proportion of private hospitals in the country is quite marginal. It can easily lead to some form of public arrogance in the second part of the service apparatus. I believe that we have made a good deal further in relation to the starting point that can easily be the result of how the offer is composed between the private and the public. It is also important for the public service to bear in mind that the hospital services in Norway are historically driven by the private initiative, the ideal and diaconal initiatives. It is also important to have an understanding of what the private offer today is, that it also consists of different types of private solutions. The Ministry of Health has had a review with regional health companies and representatives of private hospitals on how the situation has developed after the reform. My impression is that although we have some challenges, as the representative Höie pointed out, regional health businesses are in the process of clearing up some of the child diseases and becoming more role-conscious. It is clearly on the map of regional health enterprises. However, it is obvious that the ordering/executing roles are not sufficiently clearly cleared in some places, and there is also a need to look at the content and duration of the contractual relationships of the private sector. I would like to welcome the representative Höie's wish to elaborate in a later presentation to the Stortinget on how to ensure greater equality in competition between public and private undertakings in relation to competition for services.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-23.ana.ud379e497	I have listened to the exchanges so far, and will try to express the main vision of the Workers' Party in three minutes. The Labour Party believes that it is definitely a public responsibility to provide a good health service to the entire Norwegian population, including specialist health services. We also believe that the public must ensure that they have a specialist health service in their own hospitals that will mainly meet their needs. The working party so large and unacceptable is missing in our health service, where we had too long waiting time, long queues and also very varied quality in our hospitals. We had to act, and that's why we got the health reform, which has already produced a lot of good results. An important task is to ensure that healthcare is managed with transparency and democratic anchoring, and that the quality of services is good in any hospital. The reform was clear that regional health businesses were to take responsibility for the timely delivery of good treatment to patients. This responsibility has been put into practice by regional health businesses, far on the way. The use of private health services is not a new invention through the health reform. It was fully possible before, of course, and was used, as the Minister of Health also documented in his statement. The use of private health services after the reform is still modest and should be so. Information provided directly to the Committee by regional health companies shows that, at the request of regional health businesses, patients’ treatment in private amounts to a few per cent – figures from Health Mid-Norway show more than three per cent in 2003 – a task that was then carried out in clear and orderly contractual terms. But this has had a significant impact, which also Bent Höie had in mind, on the winding up of the cows, and there is every reason to believe that there is a high quality of this treatment in the private sector. The Labour Party believes that regional health companies should be responsible in their region, and that means that they can enter into contracts with private individuals, but at the same time they must ensure that we have a strong public health system. Of course, for the Workers' Party, there is no point in using the private hospitals more than is necessary for the patient, in terms of both quality and treatment at the right time. But then I would like to add that we are all well served that the private health providers have the most predictability in terms of services and types of services. It will help to ensure the quality of the services agreed between regional health establishments and the private sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-23.ana.ud379e508	It was both surprising, positive and interesting to record this interpellation from the Right Party at Bent Höie. I hope it's the beginning of a greater commitment of the Right in Health Policy in general and in Hospital Policy in particular. So far in the debate, I also note that Bent Höie and the Minister for Health have similar views on the problem that is being raised, and that is, of course, very positive. The interpellant asks a very timely question, which is particularly topical in 2004, and which will become even more topical in 2005, as the budget balance has to be reached – and this is due to the extremely difficult operating economy of hospitals today. At a consultation meeting of the Social Committee with health enterprises and the Minister for Health on 23 October 2003, it was clear from health enterprises that, with the difficult economic situation in which enterprises were then in and which will not be improved in 2004, this had to go beyond the offers made to private health providers. That's exactly what's going on right now. Regional health enterprises are not particularly interested in these agreements, some enterprises have no one, but they also have something to do with the strained economy that businesses are experiencing today. It is natural that even private health businesses cannot operate with such unforeseeableness as it is now developing to be for 2004, and that this has to be stopped for 2005. This can lead to poor professionalism, which can lead to a postponement of investments — new medical and technical equipment that is vital for individual patients — and therefore long-term agreements with regional health establishments must be sought. There I, along with the Progress Party, fully agree with the interpellant that the role that regional health businesses have exercised up to now is rather unclear in relation to this problem. Something should be done, and the proposal of the Progress Party in this respect is to change the role of regional health businesses by giving them total responsibility for the role of order, ensuring the role of the order, and removing from the business the ownership of ownership and adding it to the hospital directorate of a country. We will then be able to solve these kinds of problems and other problems in a good way, and the reform would only serve that purpose, even to the Norwegian population.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-23.ana.ud379e519	I want to open up with a question that I think it is important to ask: Should the organisation of the healthcare system in Norway be a public responsibility, yes or no? For SV it is quite obvious that the answer to that question must be yes. The organisation of the healthcare system in Norway must be a public responsibility. All parties have been able to gather on the intention of creating an equivalent health care offer, regardless of where people live, regardless of age, regardless of their economy. If you think that the health care system as a whole was privatised and based on a principle of competition, it would be impossible to achieve such an objective. Differences in supply would quickly become much greater, and it would of course be so that the ability to pay would be crucial. Therefore, it is important for SV to control the use of resources in health services in such a way that that intention is respected. When questions are asked about the care of the private people, there is a significant reason to do so, that the term private is used with a lack of clarity and precision that makes it impossible to be sure of what you are talking about. SV has been in favour of the permanent reform, which in practice means that former municipal staff doctors become employers and thus through a reimbursement scheme in many ways private practice. But this is done through the conclusion of an agreement with the public that gives strong leadership to the business and that makes them, to the greatest extent, still part of public health. SV means that when you do the same to private specialists in an agreement that ensures that it is for the public health service you take responsibility, there is little reason to be concerned about it. On the contrary, more such agreements should be stimulated. But if what you're trying to do gives a greater degree of privatisation of the health care system without a public responsibility to manage the business and without a responsibility for the private to run that business, and if you're going to spend public money on such reimbursement, you're undermining the whole idea of creating equivalence. And you consume public money in a way that makes us get less for each penny. The whole dilemma with, for example, The health policy of the Advance Party is not to place those to whom they are willing to grant more in charge of the services to which they are actually going to provide. I perceive that there is a pretty big difference between the interpellant and what Alvheim says in his post, even though he is trying to give the impression that the two parties believe the same thing. I believe that it is very important to create a majority in the Biggest that balances this in such a way that we make better use of the resources than we do today. But the worst way to do that is to put a health policy on the premises of the Progress Party. Thank you for your attention, President.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-23.ana.ud379e538	The representative, Mr Höie, addresses an important and topical issue in this debate. The Christian People's Party is also concerned that the private hospitals will have a predictable framework, and that they will continue to play a central role in achieving the goals set by the Storting. The headline in the newspaper on Wednesday, which says that «KrF warns against private care», is misleading. The Christian People's Party wants the public to have the primary responsibility and to provide the main share of health services needed by the population. At the same time, we are totally dependent on the private businesses. The Christian People's Party has always supported non-governmental organisations and other non-profit owners who have had service, and not profit, as primary goals and commitment. For example, Lovisenberg Hospital has traditions with hospital operations back to 1868 and represent an inheritance and accumulating value that says a lot about our culture and history. The hospital was farsighted and has been a driver for the development of new skills and quality offers. This quality of service is a competitive advantage that may challenge the public interest. The Christian People's Party will take care of such good offers because they constitute a very good alternative offer to public care. We want them to have agreements with regional health companies that give them the opportunity to think in the long term about investment and get predictability that makes both employees and patients safe. When the Storting dealt with the wholesale notification of the income system for specialist health services, we were concerned that regional health companies should have overall and comprehensive governance. By virtue of their role as a provider, they shall be ordered by specialist health services to those who need it. At that time, we made it clear that it was important that regional enterprises did not use their ownership position to benefit and protect their own enterprises if they were private operators who could provide better quality services. The Christian People's Party is still standing on this line. It must not be such that the regional undertakings make little private competition with their own activities but use them ‘only as a supplement’, as the interpellant puts it. Public and private hospitals are interdependent, and it is important to achieve constructive and flexible interactions. The Minister for Health was open in his reply that private enterprises that have a contract for a certain amount of services could have other tasks, such as: decentralised provision, education, training and research. The Christian People's Party supports the use of private actors in such a way when they have capacities and assumptions for this.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-23.ana.ud379e559	Let me first say that the Center Party is of the opinion that we both need and have to rely on a strong public health system. It is a public task to ensure that all receive equivalent and good health care services, and in this context also care and care. It must also be in such a way that it is the public that is to bear the main weight and that has the primary responsibility for this service provision. Private activities shall be complementary to the provision of public services. It has been identified as one of the pillars of Norwegian health policy, and it was also a starting point to which everyone in the United Kingdom joined in the treatment of health enterprise reform. In this way, I am pleased with what the Minister of Health said in his first post, when it came to these points. I think it's important that we have some supports that there's a lot of consensus about, even though the right side is trying to undermine part of these supports constantly. It surprised me a little when I heard the representative Woie Duesund say in his post that you did not have to get there that the private offer was only used as a supplement. But we're saying that it's going to be used as a supplement. So what's the definition of not just using it as a supplement? Should it then take over parts of the public offer and replace it completely? At least it will be against our policies. We believe that the public offer must be so, because good healthcare is also about emergency preparedness, and about decentralised services in terms of both preparedness and planned and necessary treatment. A comprehensive offer shall be made by the public. Then we have what the Minister of Health was about, training, research and development, which also the public primarily needs to take care of. It makes it public that has to be the carrybar here. Interpellant, Höie, talked about that it doesn't work today, you have to distinguish more between the order role and the delivery role. It's one of the taboos to the Right, and also this with the care-responsibility. So the representative, Höie, says that the private actors have gotten better, got better conditions, after the health reform. I'm not sure. We have a well-established private sector in the health care system called training institutions and rehabilitation institutions. I just want to remind you of the letter that came from HealthRehab Norway on 1 April of this year, which shows that their framework conditions are greatly deteriorated, in the opinion of these actors, in relation to what it was before the health reform. I then think that this offer should at least be accepted by today's government. This is an offer that does not compete with the public in terms of emergency preparedness and comprehensive care, which must be there 24 hours a day every year in terms of the somatic and psychiatric treatment side. The rehabilitation page should be viewed in a different way.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-23.ana.ud379e569	The right considers that ensuring good health care for all should be a public responsibility. This does not mean, however, that public health services must be provided. In our opinion, they are an important complement and corrigendum to public health. The right, therefore, wants private hospitals to have an important place in the specialist healthcare service. It's the patient who's at the center of the Right Health Policy. For the patient, it is of little importance who performs the healthcare, only he or she gets rapid and good health care. Privates have shown that they can provide healthcare of high quality and at the same time organise themselves so that resources are used efficiently, which benefits both the patient and society. When Health East evaluated their first year of operation under state control, they found that the waiting lists were reduced by 20 p.m. and that the waiting time for those who had waited for more than one year was reduced by 40 p.m. The Executive Director, Tor Berge, gave the following opinion on developments: ‘In addition to increased activity by health businesses, the total treatment capacity will increase by purchasing healthcare from private providers. Through agreements with private commercial providers of specialist health services, we expose our public health companies to competition both in terms of price and quality. In this way, the patient is provided with a wider range of healthcare services and can benefit from the shorter waiting times of private operators.’ When the left-hand side is now working to reduce the entry of private providers, they are working at the same time for longer waiting time and less diversity in the supply of patients. In my opinion, it is a dangerous price to pay for a dogmatic position that serves only the particular interests of the trade union movement, and there is reason for concern if this is to become a brake block for free hospital choice in the future. In order to ensure the best possible health care for patients, there has to be real competition between public and private providers. The integrated corporate model in which the RHF is both ordered and responsible for the State’s performance function poses some specific challenges in this way. In the opinion of the Right, the future of the model will include: depending on the success of the RHF in cooperation with private actors. We are therefore pleased that the Ministry of Health in the governance documents has made it clear the role of regional health companies in ordering. I would like to stress very strongly that private operators must have predictable framework conditions. Otherwise, we may lose the diversity of treatment services and limit the patient’s freedom of choice. On the right, the situation of private operators will be closely monitored, in order to ensure that patients are provided with the best possible health care.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-23.ana.ud379e587	I would like to thank you for a good and interesting debate. There is a debate that one should not go back many years in the political discussion to see would be impossible to hold. When one from all over the political spectrum agrees to underline the important role of private health providers – both commercial and non-profit – in the health sector and as part of the public health service for all, it shows that there has been a major political shift in this area. The representative Alvheim was pleased that the Right now had a health policy commitment. I would like to stress that we are very pleased that, in the Sem Declaration, our main health policy priorities, namely that the private health service should be part of the public offer to all, a patient rights law with individual deadlines and a large extension of the freedom of choice to patients. But we're not just happy that we got a hit in the Sem statement for this. We are also very pleased with the Minister of Health's follow-up to these policy objectives, and that these are all the objectives that have now been achieved. It is therefore a good opportunity to say that the Right is very pleased with the Minister of Health and the work of the Minister of Health. To the representative of Ballo, I would like to say that I am very happy, but also a little surprised, because even now SV says that there is indeed a basis for stimulating more private offers, but of course within the framework of serious and good agreements. There is therefore reason to say that it is now only the Central Party that is standing back in my opinion with a somewhat backward-looking attitude on these issues, and that is no surprise.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-23.ana.ud379e603	After this shelf from the right, I almost lost my mind here for a moment, but I quickly got back in. Let me thank the inter-pellant for the initiative for this debate, because it has helped to put the spotlight on a very important part of the implementation of the health reform. The debate has also shown that there is a broad consensus in this Chamber on the way we are now developing the interaction between private and public services. I think that, like the interpellant, is an important step forward. I think we're going into a new era, where there's a more mature relationship between the major public hospital sector and the relatively modest but nevertheless important private hospital sector. With maturity, I believe that there will be a greater degree of mutually accepted rules of play, and there will be a greater degree of mutual acceptance for different roles. Privates will have an important role to play in being a challenger, being corrective and complementary. There was the representative Woie Duesund's point in her posts. At the same time, it should not be for private providers to be pure cream cleaners in relation to taking cheap points; they should be included and take overall social responsibility to a greater extent. I record with interest that there is a greater transparency to undertake tasks that have traditionally been reserved to the public, which are not linked to profitable production, but primarily to social tasks such as education, research, etc. That, I think, is a sign that we are approaching a more mature relationship between these health care sectors. We will, in line with what I said in my main post, follow up and come back to the questions that have been raised here about the purely structural, among other things. by the representative of Alvheim, on the arrangements for the evaluation of the hospital reform, as I notified in my main post.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-23.ana.ud379e614	Yes, this went well despite the fact that the council said he almost lost his mind. The interpellant debate is therefore closed.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-23.ana.ud379e622	We then go to voting in case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-23.ana.ud379e640	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-23.ana.ud379e651	There is no record.
