ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13-lower.ana.ud2241e73	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13-lower.ana.ud2241e80	This is the second round of the debate on drug injection rooms, and we in the Committee on Legal Affairs intend to do this card, at least shorter than last time. The parties both at large and in the government have the same positions as the last time we debated the matter, i.e. the Government Parties and the Centre Party are opposed to attempts at injection rooms, while the SV, the Labour Party and the Progress Party ensure a majority in the case. A majority of the hearings were also positive for needle and syringe trials when the case was being consulted. This applies, inter alia, to: The Social and Health Directorate, the municipality of Bergen, the municipality of Oslo, various higher education institutions, the Norwegian Medical Association, FO, Fransiskushelpen, the Health Workers' Association, the Health and Social Ombudsman in Oslo, the Church's Bymission, the Church's Social Service, the Norwegian Nursing Association, the PRO Centre and the State Health Authority. On the part of the majority, we would like to commend the Minister of Justice for taking note of our comments and objections from the previous round to the drawing up of the proposition that we are now dealing with. However, there are some changes we want to make in relation to the proposal for law and regulation that the Government has promoted. The majority, i.e. the Workers' Party, the Advance Party and the SV, believe that there should be health professionals in the injection room and that there may be social professionals in addition. In our view, the responsible head of the injection room should have a health professional background at least at university level. The majority are opposed to the proposal on access cards for the users of the injection room. We do not see the need for such an access card for the implementation of this project. It is important to prevent the threshold for using the spray room from feeling high. Furthermore, it is unlikely that heavily charged drug addicts will be able to take care of such access certificates, and we fear that such a card could become a negotiable commodity on the illicit market and lead to considerable extra work for the staff in the injection rooms. In terms of data recording, we believe that an injection room as a health measure only needs to register the name, age and gender of users. In addition, the use of injection rooms is recorded as anonymous for evaluation purposes. Furthermore, we believe that the health record established by testing injection rooms should be based on the consent of the person registering as using the injection room. It should be clarified to the user that there is a test carried out and that the use of the injection room requires the consent of the user. We are promoting proposals in line with this. The majority are concerned that when such a test project is started, it must be of high quality throughout the process. We assume that if the costs of the pilot scheme were to be higher than foreseen, the Government will come back to this in the context of the revised national budget for 2005. We want this confirmed by the Council of State. The last thing I want to touch is who will have access to the injection rooms. Here the majority have split into two minorities, with the Labour Party and the Swedish Labour Party on the one hand and the Advance Party on the other. While the Workers’ Party and SV want to allow polydrug use to also be authorised in injection rooms, the Progress Party will limit its use to injecting heroin. The party of progress will explain its views on that occasion, I expect. In turn, we support limiting the use of heroin in order to ensure that there is a majority in that particular context. But I will briefly explain the views of the Workers' Party and the SV. The starting point for our two parties is that there is hardly any heavy drug addict who only injects heroin. Thus, it makes no sense to say that allowing polydrug use in injection rooms is to encourage such abuse. What we're doing is, on the contrary, we're starting from reality. The government reports: ‘The risk of overdose increases when heroin is combined with other drugs.’ We see this as an argument to allow this in the injection rooms, so that it comes under more controlled forms, and so that, hopefully, fatal outcomes can be prevented in more cases than at present. Prevention of overdose deaths is, of course, an important objective of the injection room system itself. In addition, we do not believe that it will be possible for staff to control what is being injected, and so the restriction could end up as a theoretical provision, which we consider very unfortunate. Finally, I would like to mention the proposal for a decision in the vote. I would like to point out that on page 8 of an incubation, as it is called, a mistake has occurred. Section 3 is replaced by the following: ‘A municipality that establishes an approved spray room system may keep a health record and process health information as referred to in Section 2 paragraph of the Health Register Act. 1 in so far as it is necessary to comply with the rules laid down in or in accordance with the law here." This means that ‘without the consent of the data subjects’ should be deleted from the legal text, because the Progress Party finally joined the SVs and the Workers' Party's proposal, thereby becoming a majority.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13-lower.ana.ud2241e116	The President has noted the changes made to the proposal for a decision by the Advocate General.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13-lower.ana.ud2241e119	We took the principle last time we had the debate on injection rooms, and it is for some of us as challenging today as it was last time. I don't want to take any rematch on it in any way, because we've gone up the boundary lines that were necessary. However, I do need to make some comments in relation to the bill that is here. Brief on the background as well: This is based on a desire and an intention of the majority to try to improve the everyday life of some of the heavy users. It's the most important thing. But it is clear that this is a taboo area for some. You also have a threat to what kind of signals you give outwards, but for the majority, it's been a clear desire to try to make everyday life better for those who are exposed to this, and perhaps by doing so also to make everyday life better for the relatives. It's been our approach. So how can we do that? Well, by testing out new things, things that we haven't done before. The Progress Party, which the rapporteur had in mind, has always had the clear view that this should only apply to heroin. Of course we can have a discussion about realism in it, but for our part it has been clear the whole time that only heroin we're opening up to. We don't want an extension, and as I said, we want to be part of this as a trial plan. Then we'll see how it works, and then we'll get an evaluation to look at what areas the size was right, and where the size might have been wrong, and where the size needs to make any changes. But for our part, we are insisting that it only applies to heroin in the first place. The second thing we're very determined about is the use of health professionals. There shall be health professionals and the management of the injection room shall have health education at least equivalent to that of higher education. The aim, of course, is to ensure that users are offered the best possible quality. When we go to the step of doing this, we also have to make sure that the quality becomes so good that they actually benefit from it. Then I just have to confirm, as the case rapporteur pointed out, that we support the Workers' Party's and SV's proposal for a new section 3 of this legal text.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13-lower.ana.ud2241e132	The Christian People's Party voted against the creation of injection rooms when the Stortinget dealt with Ot.prp. No 56 for 2003-2004 in June this year. We believe that a well-developed lowthreshold and action programme offer is the most important to ensure the dignity and ability of drug users to live a drug-free life. Injecting drug use is not, in our opinion, an appropriate instrument for reducing drug use and for improving the health status of drug addicts. For us in the Christian People's Party, it appears that it is wrong to facilitate drug abuse by creating injection rooms. But we have debated this not long ago, and I am not going to repeat the arguments. The political disagreement during the treatment of Ot.prp. No 8 mainly related to the drugs to be authorised in injection rooms. The Labour Party and the SV will allow drugs other than heroin to be injected, while the Progress Party will reserve the injection rooms for injecting heroin. I would like to commend the Progress Party for preventing, by its position, the drug injection rooms from opening up to polydrug use. The risk of overdose increases when heroin is combined with other drugs. It would therefore be very unfortunate to allow the injection of drugs other than heroin into the injection room. Furthermore, opening up the use of drugs other than heroin will make it difficult to limit the use of the drug to a single dose. I would like to remind you that the objectives of the system of injection rooms, as expressed by the system’s adherents, are several: increasing the dignity of users, reducing the number of overdoses and helping to limit the harm caused by injecting. Mixing drug use is contrary to several of the objectives of drug injection rooms — mixing drugs is more risky than using heroin alone. I must therefore admit that it is difficult for me to understand that the Workers' Party and the SV want to open up polydrug use in the injection rooms. But because the Christian People's Party is opposed to the system of injection rooms, we will also vote against the proposals in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13-lower.ana.ud2241e147	In Ot.prp. No 8 The Government proposes amendments to the temporary law on needle and syringe systems and to the Municipal Health Services Act. This is necessary in order to implement the changes introduced by the majority of the Storting, consisting of the Labour Party, the Progress Party and the Socialist Left Party, in the adoption of the Spray Room Act. It is only to be noted that the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party are now opening up the injection rooms to be open to the injection of other drugs than heroin. The rapporteur just said from the Chair that it was pointless to oppose such a proposal. Then I just want to remind you that this is contrary to the recommendations of the professional community. And the reason for that government in Ot.prp. No 56 for 2003–04 suggested limiting the scheme to heroin only, it is precisely that the Government does not want to encourage polydrug use. The right and Christian People's Party believes that allowing the injection of drugs other than heroin into the injection room would facilitate a practice of polydrug use. The risk of overdose increases when heroin is combined with other drugs, and it would therefore be very unfortunate to allow the injection of drugs other than heroin into the injection room. It is also important for the Right to point out that it would be best in accordance with our Convention obligations to reserve the injection room only for the injection of heroin. I will end by saying that the Right and Christian People's Party in ours opposed the establishment of injection rooms. Our position stands firm, and on that basis we will be voting against the law during today's proceedings.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13-lower.ana.ud2241e160	A brief justification from the Center Party: First, I would like to say that we are not represented in the Justice Department of the Storting. On the basis of this, it was also the case that we last time, in the setting and during the treatment of Ot.prp. No 56 for 2003-2004, supported the Committee's minority consisting of the Right and Christian People's Party by saying no to a proposal for a testing scheme with injection rooms. We still stand for that position and have therefore also now supported the minority in the Judicial Committee, consisting of the Right and Christian People's Party, and will vote against the law today. We will show you, among other things: to the letter from the Minister of Justice, in which he had obtained statements from the Ministry of Health in the previous round in relation to the consequences it will have if one considers injection rooms to be a health service. Furthermore, I would like to comment on this with the injection of different drugs and not just heroin. I am pleased that the Progress Party today ensures that there will be a majority so that at least there will be only heroin injection. If you had anything else, it would have been a polydrug abuse to which the professional community seems to be highly sceptical. In addition, the Centre’s position on the UN’s opinion and advice on this drug issue, in which the UN has said no to drug injection rooms, is largely influenced by, among other things. the simple justification that there is a legalisation of illicit drugs in the public domain. I think it's important to underline it. Furthermore, I would like to say that the central party’s policy towards these heavy drug users must be low-threshold services in terms of healthcare and health care, there must be a rehabilitation scheme and a good offer there, such as that. contains psychosocial services, housing, education, work and the establishment of a social network. It must be important to try to make it possible for those drug users who are drug-free to move to such a day-to-day environment. I think it is rather worrying that we are in favour of this injection room system now, with the far-reaching consequences it has, at least if there had been a majority in favour of the proposals of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left here today. With these words, I want to signal that we are voting against the law.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13-lower.ana.ud2241e175	During treatment of Ot.prp. No 56 in June this year, it became clear that the majority in the Grand Duchy wanted a different design of the testing scheme with injection rooms than the one proposed by the Government. The position of the Judicial Committee and the subsequent debate in Odelstinget showed that the majority, among others: wish that the injection room system be staffed by both social and health professionals, that the users of the injection rooms be offered individual health care, that staff provide specific and individual guidance to the users in connection with the injection itself, and that there should not be a condition for legal access for users to be involved in medically assisted rehabilitation measures, LAR. In order to implement the wishes of the majority for changes to the sample system, it is necessary to amend the law on injection rooms and the draft regulation on the details of the scheme. The government was therefore asked to make the necessary changes to the law and draft regulation. The store also asked to be informed about the regulation before it entered into force. This has been followed up by the Government on the presentation of Ot.prp. No Eight. The government also asked the government to make proposals in the next year’s State budget for the sub-financing of injection rooms. This has been followed by a proposal by the Ministry of Health and Health in its budget to allocate funds for this purpose. The government proposes to maintain the restriction of the penalty for the type of drug to include heroin injection only. The criterion of ‘heroin abuser’ as a condition for legal access to the drug injection room service is also proposed. At the same time, the Government of the Proposition states that this does not mean that heroin users who also abuse other drugs cannot be given access to the service as long as they only inject heroin into the injection rooms. I am pleased that the Government here has the support of a majority of the committee. I record that a majority of the committee is in favour of amending the law, so that consent is required from users before they can be registered as users of the injection room service. The penalty for possession and use of heroin in drug injection rooms is conditional on legal access. Legal access is granted to a person who is registered as a user of the service. Therefore, a requirement for consent to registration means that persons who refuse registration will not be able to use the injection room service either. In addition to the necessary amendments to the law proposed by the majority of the committee to introduce a requirement for consent, I will ensure that the requirement for consent is also clearly stated in the regulation of the law. Of the setting for Ot. pp. No 8 it is clear that the majority of the Committee does not wish to have an access card system. Following the government's proposal, the municipality was given the opportunity to use such a scheme if it so wished. Access cards were intended as a possible mechanism for facilitating access control. However, access cards are not necessary in order to carry out the examination procedure, and I will ensure that the wishes of the majority are followed up when the regulation is to be laid down. In order to carry out a more effective evaluation of the injection room system, the Government proposed to record the timing of individual use of injection rooms. I am pleased that the majority of the Judicial Committee agrees with the Government on this point. The government will follow up the majority’s desire to employ health and social professionals in the injection room service and be managed by a person with a health professional background, in the definition of the regulation. The Government will also ensure that the leadership of the majority of the Committee as regards the use of unskilled personnel is ensured in the context of the issuing of the approval of each examination scheme. I have noticed that the majority of the Committee assumes that if the costs of the pilot scheme were to be higher than would be foreseen, the Government will come back to this in the context of the revised national budget 2005. Finally, I would like to say that the Government will ensure that the adjustments to the draft regulation on the detailed design of the injection room system are made in order to follow up the views of the majority, as expressed in the vote and in this debate. No other amendments to the draft regulation will be made to this effect until the scheme is put into effect. The regulation will be adopted and put into force as soon as the matter is settled in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13-lower.ana.ud2241e196	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 244]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13-lower.ana.ud2241e212	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes per group. In addition, the President will propose that there be no replications after the individual posts, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It’s to look at as affirmative.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13-lower.ana.ud2241e219	What is now being presented by legislative proposals has been the subject of a unanimous committee. They want to have central supervision, a comprehensive and coherent supervisory and service body for all their foundations. Until now, this has been taken care of by the individual county office, and it is believed that a high level of operational benefits and professional quality can be achieved through a single supervision. As I said, this view shares the Committee's view. Where the Committee disagrees — or does not agree with the rest of the Committee — on the issue of charging. We all agree that we should have the opportunity to charge an annual fee, including a fee when the foundation is set up. The question is how much is going to be paid, and how much is going to be paid. The majority want a step fee both for establishment and for payment of the annual fee. The Progress Party believes that using flat rates, you can probably do a not insignificant amount of simplification. This will also lead to speculation as to whether you register the foundation as a business foundation within the Business Register or whether you choose to register it as a foundation in the Foundation Register. It is also true that when one chooses to say that this is voluntary in 2005, but imposed after 2006, because of the way in which the fees are charged, the foundations are asked not to register until the last minute. This means that the budgetary projections for 2005 at best will be minimal. What the Progress Party believes would be appropriate in relation to a flat rate is to avoid a number of potentially unfortunate adaptation manoeuvres by not adapting the capital of the Foundation to a fee rate. It would be similar to the fact that public fees to limited liability companies were assessed on the basis of the size of the share capital. I think most people in this room know that the share capital and the income of a company, or the soundness of a company, have very little to do with each other. But here it is believed that the capital of foundations and the stability of foundations and the economic basis are the same. If you do as the Government discusses later, starting from the administrative capital, it will result in a not insignificant administrative cost for both those who have to assess what to pay in advance and those who will subsequently assess the final accounts in relation to what was the correct profit or loss and, if necessary, set off/recover additional collection fees. Therefore, the Progress Party has proposed this at flat rates and that the State itself should bear the costs of exempting 2 500 foundations from the founding fee. The government correctly points out that you do not have to pay fees to make foundations unable to carry out their tasks. But it doesn't necessarily get better from the fact that the fees that exempt foundations had to pay are reduced to other foundations, with perhaps the same or the best basis for their existence. That is why I am addressing our proposal, which reads: ‘The Government asks the Government to set up the fees for the Foundation’s supervision as flat rates and on condition that the government itself covers the minor income arising from individual formations being exempted from fees.’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13-lower.ana.ud2241e239	The representative, André Kvakkestad, has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13-lower.ana.ud2241e242	The case rapporteur, Kokkestad, has gone through the setting in a good way. I just want to add one thing: when this foundation supervision is now to be established in Förde, it is of course dependent on income. At the same time, the majority of the major foundations, with a basic capital of more than DKK 100 000, are committed to financing the participation of the smaller foundations in the register. In order to reduce the burden on them, the majority – all with the exception of the Advance Party – have asked the Ministry to review and propose that persons and traders requesting information from supervision pay for this. It is the same as if you go into the Unit Register and the Brønnøsund Registers; you have to pay if you want to obtain information. I think it is reasonable that this should also apply to the Foundation Register and the services of the Foundation. So when that proposal comes into place, the additional burden on the larger foundations will hopefully be minimal, and we will have a register that covers all major and smaller foundations in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13-lower.ana.ud2241e247	There are approx. 9 000 foundations in this country. The foundations carry out a large part of voluntary, non-profit-making work. The Christian People's Party believes it is important to stimulate more private people to contribute to society in this way. The foundations are self-ownership, and therefore no one controls that they are managed in accordance with their purpose by virtue of ownership positions. This is the background for the public oversight of foundations. Today, the foundations are supervised by the state. There is a broad consensus that control of foundations must be improved and more systematic than is the case today. This is why, in 2001, the Stortinget decided to establish its own supervision to monitor and keep an overview of the foundations. The Foundation Act was adopted in this Chamber on 15 June 2001. In order for the law to come into force, the Foundation must be in place. In Ot.prp. No 88 calls for proposals for supervisory funding arrangements - funding is a prerequisite for the establishment of supervision. In Ot.prp. No 15 for 2000-2001 it was proposed that the foundations themselves should, in whole or in part, finance the Foundation’s supervision through a registration fee. This proposal joined the Stortinget in examining the proposition. The Government now proposes that the Foundation’s supervision be fully financed through payment by the foundations themselves. An annual fee shall be introduced for the foundations, in addition to the fee for initial registration. The level of fees shall be based on the basic capital of the foundations. It is added that the 2,600 foundations with a basic capital of less than NOK 100000 will not pay an annual fee. The Christian People's Party believes it is right and necessary to protect the smallest foundations against the payment of annual fees. The Foundation’s supervision shall be located together with the Lottery Authority in Förde and will require approx. ten annual works. It is stipulated in the proposal that the annual operating costs will be around 9 million. kr. On behalf of the Christian People's Party, I would like to make it clear that we expect the Foundation Supervisory Board to operate as rationally and cost-effectively as possible. Of course, supervision must have sufficient resources to carry out the desired control of foundations, but in addition to this, minimum red tape must be provided. If the costs of operating the Foundation’s supervision can be lower than proposed, the Foundations could benefit from reduced fees. Such a solution would – to put it in an understatement – not be unfortunate at all. Furthermore, it is important that the Foundation’s supervision helps to keep expenditure down by being open to sources of income other than fees and fees paid by foundations. It is gratifying, in the view of the Christian People's Party, that the majority of the Committee, all except the Party of Advancement, has challenged the Department to propose that persons and traders who request information from the Supervisory Board pay for it. Such revenues shall be deducted from the increased burden on the larger foundations as a result of exempting the smaller foundations with a basic capital of less than DKK 100000 from the annual charge. I want to challenge the Foundation's supervision to be creative in its operations and to make suggestions for other sources of income that can reduce the burden on foundations. On behalf of the Christian People's Party, I would like to endorse the proposals in Ot.prp. No Eighty-eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13-lower.ana.ud2241e270	I just want to give some considerations that have been motivating in relation to the position of the Workers' Party in this case. At first, I think that's the basis for giving the Government credit for the presentation, which I think is balanced in terms of how you think about the institution, and also to a great extent in terms of how you think about the financing of this. I would like to say to the representative Marthinsen that, as far as the issue of establishing foundations is concerned, it should not be obvious that there is something similar to any kind of charitable action or any kind of charitable thought. The problem in local Norway today is, above all, that we have too many charitable foundations that run in secret and that would largely need change and aggregation. Many municipalities do a very good job of doing so. Now, when you decide to set up a supervision, I would like the foundations to also have a kind of motivation to go along with themselves and look at the possibilities to make the foundations – you have thousands – more rational. There is also some of the motivation for our vote in this matter. The Workers' Party believes it is absolutely right, as the Government proposes, that this supervision be financed by the foundations' seas. And to the representative of the Progress Party: Why would the community and the taxpayers have to sit with the bill to finance the necessary control of these foundations? It's completely incomprehensible to me. So it's absolutely right that this is a financing issue that should largely be a matter for the foundations. In addition, it is evident that the practices that have evolved quite differently from county offices to county offices actually show that the control side of foundations is not functioning well enough today. There is absolute reason to subject several foundations to control, both in relation to the use of funds for the purpose, but also in relation to more general law and administrative rules that surround legal entities of such a nature. So then there's also a hope that here you really get control speed and get to help foundations also get under normal, normal rules like others do. 2005So it must be hoped that when you set up such a foundation supervision, where you, among other things, is charged either an annual fee or a registration fee and is thus subject to a burden, it shall contribute to the cleaning up of the premises in relation to, in particular, the small foundations, which could profit from being able to merge and thus be changed. It has also been motivating on the part of the Labour Party in relation to the present proposal, and we support this. We also see the need to assess the question of whether it is natural to charge for those who require transparency, but see that it is likely to be a rather thin source of income for the Foundation's supervision. It will be exciting to see how the department might assess this. This is the background to the support of the proposed proposal by the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13-lower.ana.ud2241e283	The background to the public oversight of foundations is primarily that foundations are self-owned institutions which are not subject to active ownership control, as is the situation, for example. for companies. Nor are the Foundation members, such as the Associations, capable of asserting democratic rights in relation to the management of the Association. The new Constitutional Act was adopted as Law 15 June 2001 No. 59. The Act provides for the establishment of a central supervision of the foundations, the Foundation’s Supervisory Authority, which assumes the functions of the counties under the Constitution of 1980. The Authority shall keep a central register, the Foundation Register. The register shall replace the register of foundations of the counties. The establishment of central supervision has its main reasons for ensuring that the supervision of foundations is carried out in the best professional manner possible. This will create greater security around foundations as an organisational form and help to provide better public service and guidance to foundations. The founding supervisor shall keep a central register of all foundations in the country. In Ot.prp. No 15 for 2000-2001 on foundations – the Constitutional Act – it was proposed that the foundations themselves should finance the Foundation’s supervision in full or in part through a registration fee. The Judicial Committee agreed to this, cf. Inner. O. No 74 for 2000-2001. The Government now proposes that the Foundation’s supervision be fully financed by the foundations themselves. The third paragraph of Section 7 of the Constitution provides that a fee may be charged for the registration of foundations in the Register of Foundations. When the Government now proposes to introduce an annual fee in addition to the fee for registration in the Foundation Registry, it is in order to spread the costs of foundations, so that it does not threaten their ability to realise their purposes. It is the same motivation behind the proposal that the smallest foundations should not contribute to the funding of the Foundation’s supervision. Let me also add that the foundations, together with the Lottery Authority in Førde, will in fact represent a kind of centre of competence for civil society in Norway. Very many of the foundations are non-profit foundations. In fact, by bringing together legal competences in one place that are aimed at respecting some of the good in civil society, both through lottery and foundations, there is thus building up a competence for this part of Norwegian society, which is under considerable pressure in many ways. Anyone who's close to volunteering knows that. So I would like to add a few brief comments to what the representative Marthinsen said. I think I share his concern that you should be as sober as possible. But nine positions at approx. I don't think 9,000 foundations are essentially exaggerating, I think. And if it were to happen that there were some quality pleasure rings that can be secured and at the same time reduce something, then of course we have to keep track of it. And I also know those who run the Lottery Authority, who are going to coordinate with the Foundation Supervisory Authority, right, that kind of thinking will probably be there. But the most important thing I think is that there are now job resources that can ensure that the foundations are actually registered and treated in a proper and good way. I have noticed that the Committee notes that users of the register other than the foundations will also be able to contribute to the financing of supervision by pricing different registers. To this end, it will be reviewed and followed up, as the Committee points out, as soon as the Foundation’s Board of Supervisors receives a certain amount of experience.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13-lower.ana.ud2241e298	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13-lower.ana.ud2241e301	Only a clarification, seen and understood, in relation to our alternative proposal in terms of funding: It's like being generous on behalf of others, to which this law applies, we're skeptical about. And I'm absolutely sure that if you went into another model and were concerned about funding for the Progress Party, we would be doing it quite well.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13-lower.ana.ud2241e308	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 245]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13-lower.ana.ud2241e324	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes per group. In addition, the President will propose that there be no replications after the individual posts, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It’s to look at as affirmative.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13-lower.ana.ud2241e329	I'm going to say on behalf of myself and the representative of Thorkildsen a few words about why we're going against this. It should not be a surprise that the Progress Party and SV vote against. It is in line with what was done in the Control and Constitutional Committee, expressing scepticism to restrict the transparency of public documents. The minority believe that the amendment proposed here will lead to the failure to obtain the information that could be needed for a full hearing in the National Audit Office. In view of this, we are going to vote against the proposed law.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13-lower.ana.ud2241e340	The realities of this case took Odelstinget's position when it dealt with the new law and instructions for the National Audit Office. There is therefore no need to go into any dispute about the content of the matter as such, so I should basically just limit myself to giving the Minister of Justice a warm welcome so that he quickly returned to Stortinget with the matter and followed up what the majority in Odelstinget asked for in June. In addition, I am also very pleased that the Minister of Justice – by the way he has come back to Odelstinget with the case – cut through all bureaucratic and legal talk that could help undermine Stortinget's intention with what was decided in June. What lies here is a proper follow-up of the majority in Odelstinget, and I'm pleased with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13-lower.ana.ud2241e347	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 245]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13-lower.ana.ud2241e363	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes per group. In addition, the President will propose that there be no replications after the individual posts, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It’s to look at as affirmative.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13-lower.ana.ud2241e370	Briefly: The proposals for legislative changes are in line with the Government's proposal in St.prp. No 1 for the Ministry of Justice 2004-2005. The economic consequences of the legislative changes are incorporated into the budget and are based on lifting the multiplier in the Law on Legal Fees. The Committee is in agreement, with the exception of SV, which is opposed.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13-lower.ana.ud2241e377	SV will go against the increased burden on poverty, which the Government’s legal proposal will in practice mean. The proposal for a government fee on a debt collection case where expenses are charged amounts to SEK 4 817, which is more than a month's social assistance in most places. This fee will, in many respects, far exceed the requirement from which it arises. Such a high enforcement fee will make it even more difficult for those in debt and poor advice to settle. In the ultimate sense, this could lead creditors to choose to go to other, more unprofitable debtors than the nominee. Half of those who owe money earn less than 150 000 kroner. If the state increases collection fees, the poorest are affected. This should taste bad in the Christian People's Party. I know that it tastes bad in the Progress Party, which unfortunately has chosen to support the Government, through the conciliation. The proposal implies that poor people who earn less than 150 000 kroner a year will pay approx. 260 million. kr in collection fees to the State next year, according to a calculation by the debt collection agency Lindorff. That's more than 250 million. kr as the Government will increase the so-called real-time turnover by next year. SV believes that with this increase in the legal fee, the Government will transfer part of the tax relief bill to the poorest – and at the worst possible time. We've had a steep increase in the number of debt negotiations so far this year. In other words, the government has budgeted to make money to make more victims of debt. SV believes that this is unsustainable, and we therefore vote against the Government's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13-lower.ana.ud2241e390	I will not go into the matter further – in addition to what it says – but link a few small comments to the fees. I would like to point out the following: in 2002 we released the collection fee from the legal fee, so that it has now been reduced from NOK 670 – as it was then – to NOK 530, that we reduced the late payment interest rate, which was high, to 8.75 p.m., as a result of the general low interest rate, and that the Stortinget has just considered the proposal for changes in civil justice on the basic level, where it was also a proposal for direct enforcement of undisputed claims. Such enforcement of the undisputed claims will save the parties for costs and strengthen the real legal certainty of the debtors. I think it is right that these aspects of the matter are also included in the overall picture.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13-lower.ana.ud2241e397	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 246]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13-lower.ana.ud2241e413	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes per group. In addition, the President will propose that there be no replications after the individual posts, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It’s to look at as affirmative. The first speaker is Knut Storberget – for the spokesperson for Saka.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13-lower.ana.ud2241e422	On behalf of the representative, Gjul, who has sick leave today, I will present this case, which is about reintroducing self-interest in free legal aid. Briefly stated on the Committee's work: the Committee is very much divided on this issue. From being an overall committee two years back on the issue of excesses of free legal aid, the government parties, this time with the support of the Progress Party, have chosen to go to the step of proposing to reintroduce excesses, over which we shall vote today, while the SV and the Workers' Party will vote against the introduction of excesses of free legal aid. I want to take as a starting point the power investigators found out about the situation of many in Norway today when it comes to asserting their rights. One of the main conclusions of the power investigators was just that, unlike previous ones, people today have to go to the courts to get their rights. It doesn't just help to be right, you also have to get right. That's why, with the support of the Progress Party, the Government is actually involved in raising the threshold for those who have the worst advice, in getting their rights and getting the legal aid they need. The question of the justification for referring many more areas of society to the legal area and to the courts for settlement there can be discussed in the broadest possible way, but the situation is this: whether it is housing rights or land rights, issues of social security rights, issues of child sharing, questions of compensation, issues of vital social policy interest for many people with very little money. Such cases are today referred to the judicial system to find their solution. And it goes without saying that with the situation we have around legal aid today, it's almost impossible for most ordinary employees to base their right to go to the courts if you don't get public assistance in relation to free legal aid. It is therefore in the view of the Workers' Party that it should actually be lowered in order to get free legal aid and to be able to get help from the courts. The constraint is high enough. People today are basically afraid to use the courts at all; they have heard a lot about how it is, you are being charged costs, and – not to forget – to the extent that you have to pay the costs of the case, among others. lawyers' fees, anyone may be frightened of raising a case, even if it was very necessary. In addition, many people initially hesitate to contact a lawyer, and not just on the basis of financial interests. As a result, the introduction of the excess in this round becomes a new load on a group which may at least need such a load. I think it's a paradox that a government that adorns itself with being a combatant of poverty and grants between 200 million. and $300 million. € for poverty reduction, while choosing to recover from the very poorest €50-60 million. kr, which is meant to be saved by such a grip. In my opinion, it is doubtful whether there is at all a saving on this, if you do not actually contribute to the unsolved, more complicated and more disadvantageous to those who have the conflicts around them every day. This is in the view of the Labour Party to spare itself. In addition, the Workers' Party believes that at this round one should have actually been stuck on the line that a total accumulation was recorded just two years ago, as these excesses were just removed on the initiative of the Workers' Party and the SV. I can't see that there's any reason to introduce this now, which was not present at the time this was removed, just a short time back. On the other hand, attention should be paid to extending the legal aid system in Norway, helping those in the so-called legal aid dilemma, where one party, for example, is involved. in a child-sharing case, has free legal aid, and the other does not. There should have been an extension. Applications should be considered more widely, and the issue of income limits should also be addressed. This is an unforeseeable policy, which affects to a large extent the weakest of the weakest. And that is in this way the fight against poverty in reverse.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13-lower.ana.ud2241e442	SV joins what Knut Storberget now just said in what we believe was a glittering post. The last time we debated the law, I said this was a great day for anyone else who in the future would have been shocked because what they thought was free legal aid, at all, was not. I'm proud to be one of those who have contributed to people who have problems getting free help, so we can get a greater degree of equality in this country. On that day SV, the Labour Party and the Advance Party agreed to remove the excesses of free legal aid. Now the Progress Party is with the government parties to reintroduce them. So there's reason to say that this is a sad day, because today the majority is in favour of a legal aid scheme that will deprive the least favoured opportunities to pursue their rights through the judiciary. The last time this case was up, I also said that I didn't understand how the government could go into an arrangement where lawyers would be responsible for collecting probabilities, when so many hearing bodies warned against it and said that it would only lead to one thing, that fewer lawyers would take on free legal aid cases, i.e. less like the law. At the time, the proposal was rejected by SV, the Workers' Party and the Advance Party. So now the Progress Party ensures a majority that this is going to happen. It's awfully sad. The last time the matter was debated, I took part in a debate on P3 with the representative of Hofstad. She said that Right – or was it the Government? – do not want to remove excesses because they would rather increase the income limit in free legal aid cases. At the same time, they voted against the proposal to raise this limit to NOK 230 000, as both the SV, the Workers' Party and the Advance Party secured, and I record that they have not proposed any further raising of the limit by this cross-road either. On its side, the Chairman of the Committee, Greece, felt that access to free legal aid had to be restricted. In this way, the Right has now got its position through in the Government. As a result, it is not credible to justify the reintroduction of equity in the budget for the next year, among other things. writes that ‘moderate use of prostheses in cases of need-tested free legal aid will not cause persons to suffer legal losses as a result of a lack of financial capacity’. How can you be so sure? If the intention is to restrict the use of the scheme, it is definitely at risk that people who should have access to free legal aid will not receive it. In particular, when the entrance ticket has a total of 770 kroner, which is to be paid in advance. ‘The client stream will decrease from several thousand to near zero. To a drop in the sea," said lawyer Jacob Aars-Rinning to the Class Battle. He's got 80 pst. of its activities at the Office for Legal Assistance in Oslo. He'll take a thought, sir. Hansen as an example, a man who thinks he's been given too little social assistance. “He cannot afford to pay 770 kroner to start talking to me,” said lawyer Aars-Rynning. ‘A component of this size would simply be an insurmountable barrier.’ Until 1 September 2003 – when our three parties came together – the proportion of free legal aid was NOK 300. We got together before this, but this was exposed. But it was not to be paid in advance, it was collected in arrears by the central government collection centre. You could also apply for it to be completely surrendered. So now 770 kroner must be on the table before the client gets a lawyer in charge. If the problem is that you lie behind with the rent because you don't have the money, you don't go straight into an office and add 770 kroner to the table. Finally, I would like to point out what the Government's seas are saying in the 2005 draft budget: ‘More research projects show that there is an unmet need for legal assistance in the population.’...‘Specially worrying is the fact that the unmet legal needs increase as social and economic resources decline. It's a challenge to control resources against those who need it the most. The need is greatest for those with the lowest income.» SV takes the consequences of the government's own analysis and therefore agrees with the government's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13-lower.ana.ud2241e472	The law on free legal assistance is a central part of the welfare state. It may be essential for individuals to obtain competent legal assistance in the exercise of rights challenged by others. For this reason, the right to free legal aid must cover all those who otherwise would not be able to take care of their legal interests. In addition, the scheme must cover the types of cases which are most relevant to the individual. The theme of today's debate is the introduction of legal aid. The system of ownership of the law on free legal aid was abolished on 1 September 2003. Persons with a gross annual income of less than NOK 230000 may per person: today, without being charged costs themselves, get free legal assistance in cases falling under the legal aid scheme. Thus, free legal aid is currently different from many other welfare schemes, such as drug law enforcement. health care, by not paying a lesser proportion of the costs to users. The cost of trial-free legal assistance has increased by about 25 pst. after the withdrawal of the partial payment. There is a need to prioritise scarce resources and to gain greater control over the development of expenditure. The Christian People's Party therefore supports the Government's proposal to impose abstinence on the part of free legal aid that has been tested. In cases which are not brought before the courts, the proportion of the part shall be equal to the public salary, as per today is NOK 770. In cases before the courts, the proportion is 25 pst. by the costs in the case, but limited up to five times the public remuneration rate, per. today NOK 3850. Those with an income of less than NOK 100000 per year. years, however, shall not pay excess. A system of abstinences can allow free legal assistance to a larger group of the population. This is crucial for me and for the Christian People's Party. You can imagine a more graduated legal aid scheme than the proposals in the proposal put forward. You can, for example: organise for a larger group than today to fall below the income limit of the law, but so that the government covers a greater part of the expenditure for those with the lowest income. Under such a graduated scheme, more people will come under the scheme, and the total cost of legal assistance will be lower for a larger group than today, because the remuneration in free legal aid cases is determined at the public salary rate, and because public expenditure covers part of the costs. The Christian People's Party wishes in the long run a rotation of the legal aid system in line with this. Such an arrangement is today, they must, with income over NOK 230000, cover the entire bill of attorney themselves and pay the ordinary hourly rate charged by the lawyer. This is not unproblematic. It is difficult to understand why the recovery of the excess in the case of free legal aid should be in a position other than the recovery of remuneration in general. The Christian People's Party therefore supports the Government's proposal that the lawyers recover the excess. The Christian People's Party, the Right and the Advance Party agree in the budget position that there is a need for a review of the entire legal aid system with a view to improving the provision of legal assistance. In particular, we want the Government to assess a conversion to a graduated self-payment model, as is the practice in Finland. On behalf of the Christian People's Party, I look forward to the Storting treating the law of free legal aid in its full breadth.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13-lower.ana.ud2241e500	At times, politics has a price that is undesirable. This case is an example of this for the Progress Party. This is a matter that I would have liked not to be part of. At the same time, in a budgetary settlement, one cannot only take the good sides. One has to bring the other too. As long as a party alone does not have a purely majority in this Chamber, most of us are temporarily forced to compromise on something we do not want, cf. the debate on drug injection rooms, where, for example: The working party and SV said that they primarily wanted no one to use heroin, but they saw that in order to find a solution, they had to accept a system of injection rooms. Policy is often a means of achieving a medium-term objective. You don't achieve the optimal, but you achieve a solution you can live with. This is also the case for us in this case. I wish this wasn't a problem, but it is. When the Government finances much of the strengthening of the budget through this type of action and we are not able to finance it otherwise, it is a reality. But it has to be clear that I'm not doing this with any special joy. This is unpleasant, to say it mildly. At the same time, we have suggested that we should also look at other solutions, that we now have a review of the law and not least look at the Finnish model, whether it can help make things simpler and better in the future. Well, that's the way it is – if I can get to tell the representative of Storberget, who was up on the pulpit before me – that this is probably as comfortable for us as it was for him to run around the Stortinget and fight for Bruvoll last year. It is probably equally inconvenient for SV, who have voted against strengthening the family violence project in Westfold. And not least the matter we had up to two years ago, when the Workers' Party and the Advance Party agreed to increase the point of entry for free legal aid in child distribution cases, which SV was against at the time. It is that if you're going to achieve something, you have to give something. Sometimes it's more unpleasant than other times. This time it's unpleasant.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13-lower.ana.ud2241e518	I think there is a broad consensus in Stortinget that there might be reason to consider whether the legal aid system we have today is the best. I noticed, for example. the majority said about this in the budget debate and the budgetary position. That's what the government put forward, where we said we want to review the legal aid system to see if we can improve the overall legal aid offer. In this context, in connection with the budgetary position of the Ministry of Justice, a majority in the Grand Duchy asked that the Finnish system be looked at. If we have such a system, we will have to assess – and we will do so – a graduated legal aid scheme where public spending covers a relatively large proportion of the expenditure for those with the lowest income. This will result in the right of those concerned to a subsidised legal assistance. Such scaling could also lead to the inclusion of a larger proportion of the population in Norway. Today, in our neighbouring Nordic countries, a much larger proportion of the population comes under the legal aid system, but after a graduation, while in Norway it is about. half of which fall under the scheme due to the 230000 income ceiling. With all due respect for everyone here, it is wrong not to mention from this pulpit that those who have a income below 100,000 do not pay anything, that there are arrangements that are not tested and that are to have free legal assistance. But that's also how the representative Storberget went about, that we live in a society that is constantly being legalised. Is it a good thing that we are going to get a permanent lawyer, in birth gift, almost from birth, so that the lawyer is sure that we get through to society? Or is it so that we may need to strengthen other sensible arrangements in this country – such as: settlement council, conflict council – in a number of situations where it is very important that people can settle themselves without the case ending in court, i.e. that it is resolved in a more amicable and simpler way. Is it not true that in everyday life we are also earned that, for example. a number of the good ombudsmen’s arrangements we have, in terms of social assistance, including: in this city, will we have a political debate on how these arrangements should be? I note, for example: Such a debate at the last budgetary conciliation here in the capital led to the improvement of social aid rates in a conciliation between a City Council from the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left because it wanted those who were the weakest to have a better chance. There are many ways to approach it, which I feel is a common concern for everyone in this room, fortunately, that one will try to reach the weakest ones. I can almost not believe in myself, but the last working party put with government power, it is no longer since 2001, actually promoted the Workers' Party's proposal for a self-equity arrangement, which Bondevik II has now moderated. It was then suggested that the income limit be lower than the one we are now proposing, and it was also suggested that those above the income limit should pay ten times the public salary. In our proposal we have done this differently. I wonder if we're not up in a case where maybe, I'm saying, it's easier to have the money when you're in opposition than in position? But perhaps there is also one thing that will lead to the reflection that I am going to give to the representative, Mr Storberget, that we should think about other instruments. I have chosen to take this post to point out the tools that go beyond and outside the courtroom. It must not be the case in Norwegian society that a person has to legalise everything and be completely dependent on a lawyer. In many contexts, the size needs to think about how society's amicable systems can solve problems in everyday life. I have mentioned some of them: conciliation councils, conflict councils – a number of these good traditions in Norwegian society have been preserved. I myself believe that in order to be absolutely sure that you reach those who want the most help, I am very open to assess whether the scheme we have is at all the best. I have indicated that in the budget proposal, and therefore I have also expressed satisfaction with the observation made by the majority when the budget for the Ministry of Justice was adopted. I notice that others, among other things, have been involved. The representative of Storberget, if I understand him quite correctly. I'm open to making such an assessment, just to be absolutely sure that we reach what you call the weakest, in the best possible way.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13-lower.ana.ud2241e537	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13-lower.ana.ud2241e540	It is with both amazement and not so little discomfort that I hear the argument from the Government in this matter. They say you're afraid of legalizing society, and they point to settlement arrangements, for example. Then I'd like to ask, who is there any reason to raise the index finger in such contexts? Should we maybe raise the index finger to those who actually over-consume the legal system? Or should we raise our index finger to those who under-use the legal system, and refer them to such schemes that I fully agree are good and that should be used more? We know who's over-consumption, it's those who have great resources and who have 770 kroner just is pocket-ubergine and won't mean any of the world's things for. While for someone who has to pay this bill, 770 kroner is a lot of money, and that's them this frame. I do not really respect that among those who express their opinion on this matter. It is a reality. The progress party has at least been ashamed to realize that it is wrong, and they say that they should have rather avoided this. But the government defends it, the Christian People's Party defends it. It is clear that this is a tightening, and that it hits someone, it hits those who have little money. So they have to put the money on the table before they get legal help. It's hard to understand. The council says he's willing to look at the scheme, whether it's actually good enough. That's good. But wouldn't it have been better to have kept the arrangements that had protected those we know need this most, and that consume this important good in society at least? So you could look at what's the best arrangement. But you do the opposite, and it's pretty amazing that this government is so focused. They're incredibly focused on a lot of what they're doing. They are targeted at attacking the schemes aimed at helping those at least in society, whether in terms of social security, day-care or social assistance. And now it's legal aid. I think it's bad that we have to experience this, when we see that in other areas, money is distributed to people with high incomes. At least I wish that the Christian People's Party had been a little more humble in relation to those who have little in this matter, that these had been open and honest and seen the problems. Then it might have been possible to get forgiveness for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13-lower.ana.ud2241e554	The Minister of Justice's speeches made it necessary for me to take the floor, for I have rarely heard so many bad arguments to impose a partiality on free legal aid as the one we were presented there, in order to be completely honest. If an argument in this case to political opponents in the Storting should be that it is easier to run the opposition than the position on this issue, I must ask the Minister of Justice to go in and see what the Workers' Party has actually done on the occasion of this case in the last two years. We have put forward proposals in the Grand Duchy to eliminate the excesses, get a majority on them, back them into the budget last year, and back them into the budget for this year. We have taken away the money we needed to remove the excess, from other good purposes. The argument that it is easier to sit in the Storing and Government than to sit in government is not sustainable in this context at all. It's just proof that here's the government out in a field where you probably don't even trust your own argument, which, in my opinion, you should have promoted in a different way in today's debate in relation to this question. Because that's what the representative Marthinsen says, that this is about crucial issues. It cannot then be used in a major legal debate, which the Minister of Justice has now tried to do, and say that once you introduce a proportion of your property, you might get an estimate of the legalisation of society. I was about to say, is it so that it is the weakest, those who have the least money, who are going to rectify the legal process that many of us think is unfortunate? No, rather the opposite. It may well be a liberal, market-driven policy that invites even the weakest to have to settle their cases in the courts. If it's those people who make between $100,000 and $20,000, who are really going to do something about the legal sociological problem we're dealing with by making more and more references to the courts, I'm afraid we're going to get a blow to a lot of people in the future. I also believe that it is very disappointing that the Christian People's Party is now moving into the galley that this really involves. On the basis of the argument from the representative Marthinsen, I also understood that the fact that those with the least resources should be involved and pay a balance can contribute to the participation of more people in the legal aid system. What kind of reverse Robin Hood policy is it? Is that how we want it to be in terms of financing what many of us see as perhaps one of the most important fundamentals in combating poverty – that people who do not have the ability to pay for aid should have access to the courts in Norway, regardless of whether they are rich or poor? I had hoped that the Christian People's Party had announced something more than a will to move forward with this, perhaps notified the will to turn around in relation to the question we are dealing with today.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13-lower.ana.ud2241e566	The Christian People's Party has been challenged in a number of areas, which insist that we want to take from the poor and give to the rich. Now I have made a post where I have justified what I have said. I don't think the representative Karin Andersen could have heard what I said. She has at least not understood what I said, because what I said was that the Christian People's Party has a desire, as part of the majority we're in, to have a full review of the entire legal aid system. That's also how to understand, I think, that whoever's going to grant forgiveness must probably first and foremost be the one who's given the verdict. And if that is, as I understood the representative Karin Andersen, SV, who is the highest court in these questions, it is clear that I can be somewhat uncertain as to whether the forgiveness will come or not, because then you have to agree with SV. I think that's too bad a argument from Stortinget's pulpit. What's a fact is that we're saying here we want arrangements that are as fair as possible. We say people who have less than NOK 100,000 in income are not going to pay, and then you have to have a certain degree of graduation. We also want a review of the whole scheme. For the Christian People's Party, this is not something we want to apologize or forgive for – on the contrary. We are in favour of a system in which we believe we are introducing a principle, and we are in favour of a future solution that will be the best for as much as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13-lower.ana.ud2241e575	For the sake of order, I have not used legal form as an argument to impose a propensity. The argument is clear and clear in the proposition and also made by me today. But because legalization was taken up as a topic, I used it as a reasoning to tell you why I want to follow up on what I myself said in the proposition, why I want to follow up on what the majority said, namely, to see if the arrangement we have today is good enough, so look at a graduation and, among other things, look at it. assess the Finnish scheme. The second reason I brought this up was to show, in a debate like this, to the low-threshold arrangements we actually have in Norwegian society, so that it will also be part of the debate in this area. It's not meant to be any kind of excuse for what's happening. What the Government has done has made it open and direct and presented in Stortinget. But then there's a debate about this that I've initiated myself, and that's described in the budget proposal, where I raise the question of whether our entire system of grading is good enough. And when I raise that question, it's because I want to review the system with a view to getting a better graduation. I will, of course, consider the Finnish scheme, as the majority have asked me to do in the vote on the budget for next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13-lower.ana.ud2241e582	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 246]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13-lower.ana.ud2241e597	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13-lower.ana.ud2241e604	The Government's proposal is to ensure the supervision and control of all lawyers and legal agents, regardless of how they have organised their business. It will be positive, and it will also assure the users, which is the most important. The Committee has no comments on the proposal. On the other hand, what I want to say a few words about is in particular the urgency that has been necessary in this matter. It is, from my point of view, a little fortunate if you think that the Storting should be a pure sand-push agency for the proposals that the Council of State has signed. So it's like from the point of view of the committee, until there was a need for a discharge, it was eight days. Now the matter in itself is not controversial, but I assume that the Council of State is aware that it would be almost impossible to take a treatment if a party had found something that was controversial. Obviously, it is not easy to go through all the issues related to the final question when the department requires matters submitted just before they are delivered.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13-lower.ana.ud2241e613	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[See page 247]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13-lower.ana.ud2241e621	We are ready to go to voting in case No. 1 to 6.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13-lower.ana.ud2241e787	The President will draw attention to a correction: in Section 3, ‘without the consent of the data subjects’ shall be deleted. Right, Christian People's Party, Center Party and Left want to go against.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13-lower.ana.ud2241e799	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The President expects the Right, the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the Left to oppose.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13-lower.ana.ud2241e813	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13-lower.ana.ud2241e820	During the debate, Mr Kvakkestad put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to set up the fees for the Foundation’s supervision as flat rates and on condition that the government itself covers the minor income arising from individual formations being exempted from fees.’ The proposal will be sent to Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure. The Committee had nominated Odelstingen to take such a decision to:
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13-lower.ana.ud2241e874	The center party wants to go against.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13-lower.ana.ud2241e884	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13-lower.ana.ud2241e894	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13-lower.ana.ud2241e922	The party of progress and the Socialist Left has announced that they will oppose it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13-lower.ana.ud2241e934	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The President expects the Party of Advancement and the Socialist Left to oppose it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13-lower.ana.ud2241e948	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13-lower.ana.ud2241e990	The Socialist Left Party has announced their opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13-lower.ana.ud2241e1002	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The President expects the Socialist Left will oppose it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13-lower.ana.ud2241e1016	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13-lower.ana.ud2241e1065	The Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party have announced their opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13-lower.ana.ud2241e1077	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The President expects the Labour Party and the Socialist Left will oppose it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13-lower.ana.ud2241e1091	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13-lower.ana.ud2241e1138	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13-lower.ana.ud2241e1148	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
