ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-11-lower.ana.ud592e34	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the Odelstinget meeting today – and see it as a decision. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-11-lower.ana.ud592e37	I'd like to suggest Gunn Olsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-11-lower.ana.ud592e42	Gunn Olsen is proposed as president of the seat. Other proposals are not in favour, and Gunn Olsen is unanimously elected President of the Odelstinget meeting today.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-11-lower.ana.ud592e61	As underlined in the comments, this matter is a purely follow-up to previous deleveraging in the so-called supervisory notification a year ago. These amendments are adopted in order to allow the media surveillance to operate from 1 January 2005. This alone does not give any reason to comment from my side. However, when I speak as the rapporteur-in-Office, it is in order to clarify another matter, which is to a great extent related to this. In fact, the State budget for the current year for the Ministry of Culture announces the presentation of proposals for necessary legislative changes to ensure the independence of the supervision of media ownership, as well as further clarification of any tasks to be added to the new media supervision, i.e. new legislative changes to be introduced in a way that will also bring this about legally. Now the proposition we're dealing with today is very short, and I can't see that this is mentioned in the proposition. I therefore have to ask whether this is the case where there is a proposal for several necessary legislative changes, so that the Media Regulatory Board becomes the right administrative body from next year, a legislative change that is also necessary for there to be a supervision in this context. I'm just asking, because as I said, it's a very short proposition, and I think it's okay to clarify whether there is a need for more legislative changes so that the media surveillance can be fully operational at all, not only as a management body, but also as a media supervision, from 1 January next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-11-lower.ana.ud592e72	Further amendments are not now necessary in order for the Media Regulatory Authority to operate from 1 January 2005, as provided for in the proposal. Then we're going to get back to whether new promises are needed in the long term, but it's important to stress independence, which the representative Lånke also pulled out, and of course it has to be secured.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-11-lower.ana.ud592e77	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 457]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-11-lower.ana.ud592e93	At the request of the Social Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 15 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Progress Party 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Coast Party 5 minutes. In addition, the President will propose that there be a possibility of a replacement of up to five lines with replies from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, it is proposed that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the time allocated, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-11-lower.ana.ud592e104	As late as 18 November 2003, Odelstinget dealt with the regulations of the Biotechnology Act in the field of document No. The eight-proposal is concerned. But before I go into these pages, I'll go into the so-called Mehmet case, which is the background for today's debate. The Committee has received a thorough review of the treatment provision and treatment options for this six-year-old boy through a response from the Minister of Health. There is no one who is not affected when you see a little child who is sick. Little Mehmet suffers from the disease thalassemia major. This is a hereditary disease that is very common in parts of the world, such as the Mediterranean countries, the Middle East, South Asia and Africa. The traditional treatment of this disease is blood transfusions combined with medications to extract iron from the body. This method is well-tested and can provide a lifetime of 40 years or more. The optimal treatment of the disease is stem cell transplantation, provided full tissue compatibility between the donor and the patient is sufficient to avoid rejection reactions. In this specific case, one has not found a person with full tissue compatibility. The greatest possibility of this would be with a healthy sister or brother. According to the Social and Health Directorate, this boy is therefore receiving the best available treatment — a treatment that per year. today provides an expected life span of over 40 years. Document No The 8 proposal has its background in the fact that parents have been advised that preimplantation diagnostics combined with tissue compatibility testing could give them a new, healthy child who could be a donor and give fresh bone marrow to the sick boy. The letter of 15 March from the Social and Health Directorate to the Minister for Health, on the basis of this case, states: ‘This treatment is not introduced as an established method anywhere as far as we have been able to clean it up.’ Further reference is made to two scientific tests at the Free University of Brussels. Two implants have been carried out after double testing. One led to clinical pregnancy. However, the Committee was confirmed by letter of 28 April that this pregnancy ended later in an abortion. In the media, it was produced as if the Biotechnology Act was the central obstacle to this boy's recovery. That's not the case. He is currently receiving the best available treatment, and the option that is pointed out is not an established method anywhere. This debate is therefore not about who will help the boy, and who will not, but is, in reality, a media-driven struggle for essential parts of the biotechnology law. I will therefore go further to the proposal from the Workers' Party, the SV and the Senter Party, which will be adopted today with the support of the Progress Party. The proposal implies that a few after prior examination may be offered abroad to carry out pre-implantation diagnostics on fertilised eggs if they have an indication of being carriers of a serious heritable disease without treatment. If they already have a child with this disease, they may also have the fertilised egg tested for tissue compatibility so that the new child can be a donor to the sick child. In this case, no one has made any suggestions to lift the ban on research on fertilised eggs, so I assume that one here sees that this offer should possibly be given abroad. This is also evident from the comments of these batches. For the future treatment of possible exemptions under the Biotechnology Act, individual health professionals, as I see it, will first have to assess whether the general conditions attached to the right to treatment under the Patient Rights Act are met. Thereafter, an application must be made for authorisation to carry out genetic testing of fertilised eggs under the Biotechnology Act and the criteria specified in the suspension. I would find it appropriate, not least in the interests of the patient, that an overall assessment is carried out under the terms of the Patient Rights Act after the health care company has given an opinion on the terms of the Patient Rights Act. Thus, the mention in the cases enshrined in the Biotechnology Act will not be an anchor, but a dispensation note. Proposals do not address what they put into the concept of ‘serious hereditary disease without treatment’. This is surprising, because both the term ‘serious hereditary disease’ and the term ‘non-therapeutic’ give the same number of questions as answers. These conditions shall be addressed by the representative Åse Gunhild Woie Duesund and Beate Heieren Hundhammer. In Denmark, the so-called Patrick case was the reason why the law was changed. The boy had a serious illness, but it was not hereditary. So the new law in Denmark does not require that it be a hereditary disease. When a boy with the same disease as Patrick appears in the media in Norway, how will SV defend that he should not get help, just because his disease is not hereditary? What happens when there's a young mother of two children who needs a donor? Should the law be amended again? The majority move out on an inclined plane — or rather a roller coaster — on which they do not see the end. But they have the ability to slide, they have already proven that. I believe that the proposal which seems to be adopted today violates two important aspects which were essential to the majority behind the law. One was to put a frontier post to prevent us from getting a move towards a society that is even more accepting the sorting of life by attributes. The second was to build the law on the principle that a life has its unique self-esteem, and shall not be created as a means. I want to start with the way to the sorting society first. Several defenders of the use of preimplantation diagnostics say this is not about creating ‘design babies’. One should not be allowed to choose a child with blue eyes. No games go in for it. But why are we all against it? Is it because we don't want to discriminate against them with brown eyes? No one accepts that a child should be allowed to choose a child with a given eye colour, but the majority accepts that a child should be able to choose away without sight. Let me tell you about Deborah Kent. She's blind. She says, "I base my life on the belief that blindness is a neutral trait. It causes some problems, such as not being able to read ordinary writing or driving a car. But in a broader perspective, I have the impression that my life would not have been better, if I had had full vision." She suffers from Leber's king-in-law amaurosis, a hereditary and recessive form of blindness. We who can see, can't understand that she doesn't want to be like us. Is it therefore the majority accept that such as she should be able to sort away, while when it comes to choosing a child with blue eyes, we react? Preimplantation diagnostics are like discrimination: a single feature, in this example blindness, eliminates the whole picture. In both preimplantation and discrimination, no one finds out the rest. People like Deborah Kent are therefore met with expectations that she uses methods to ensure that her own children do not become like herself, an expectation she meets herself with her closest. And then she says, «I feel that I have failed when I get an irritating reminder that I have not changed their perspective.» This up-down perspective is now part of our law. I am convinced that as we move the boundaries of what are acceptable sorting criteria, we also change society's view of man and what is accepted as a worthy life. This is also why the organisations of disabled people have been clear in their warnings. But the majority go one step further. They open up to sort fertilized eggs out of an additional criterion; the child being born may be the donor to an already ill sister or brother. This is a development of a unanimous biotechnology label warned in 2001. And as far as I've been able to bring about it, no one suggested such an opening in the Biotechnology Act through the hearings or the processing. Nor did any batches make any suggestions on this in the course of the treatment, either of the staging message or of the stockpiling proposition. Thus, in four months SV has moved from accepting this method only in cases of severe gender-sensitive disease that is not compatible with life to accepting the sorting of fertilised eggs – not only according to the child’s own developmental potential, but also according to the needs of others. This will help undermine the principle of respect for human life, because the value of individual humans is made depending on its value for others. For a lot like SV, which counts itself as a lot of value, this has to be a quantum leap away from its foundation. Populism remains as the guide. The incredible thing is that the party's big group can make such a leap without one of the representatives making a reservation! I will end with a quote from Høre’s former leader, Jan P. Syse: “When it’s still in the wind – then even the weatherman is calm.”
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-11-lower.ana.ud592e166	In principle, there are many ways we can discuss this matter today. At any rate, we can choose between two main ways in which our contributions are based: we can take the big debate on the legal regulation of the use of biotechnology in Norway, or we can take the debate on the Mehmet case and the concrete proposals under consideration today. It's not long since we had the big debate about the law on the human medicine use of biotechnology here in Odelstinget. We had it in December last year. The Labour Party still believes that the law is too strict in a number of areas, such as: in relation to research on fertilised eggs, in relation to egg donation issues, in relation to questions about anonymous sperm donors, etc. But I don't feel the need to re-open the big debate today and in a way take a full fight over the whole law. That's why I'm not going to repeat our views on the questions I'm dealing with right now. In my post, I will concentrate on what has been called the Mehmet case, and the proposals to amend §2-14 of the Act on Preimplantation Diagnosis. Let me start by saying the following: when we discuss the law of Norwegian society, the letter of the law itself has no interest in many ways. It's the law's meeting with society, it's the law's meeting with the people who are its true moments. That's when we see the practical consequences of the letter of the law. Today's treatment in Odelstinget shows that the law of human medicine on the use of biotechnology at least did not exist on all points the test that the law meets when the law meets reality. We now have a law that prohibits the use of preimplantation diagnostics in connection with serious heritable disease, if not this disease is gender-based. The family of Mehmet is the bearer of a serious hereditary disease. They want another child, but they want the new child not to be the bearer of the serious blood disease that Mehmet has. In addition, they want to take advantage of the possibility that a new brother or sister may also be a potential donor to Mehmet. Therefore, they need to be allowed to have a child through assisted conception, where one uses preimplantation diagnostics. The working party has been and is in order that the law should allow the use of this technique in the event of a serious hereditary disease without treatment. We also believe that under certain clear conditions, the law should allow us to look for tissue similarity if the new child himself needs preimplantation diagnostics to avoid serious hereditary disease. The Mehmet case created, as also the representative, Höie, a violent discussion in the media. I feel that what happened was that one of the parties that was involved and formed the majority when the law on human medicine of biotechnology was adopted in December went out in the media and said that one point of law is too strict. On that basis, one wants to participate in a discussion on changing the law – not in line with what the Workers' Party has proposed, not in line with our proposal that pre-implantation diagnostics should be allowed in the case of serious heritable diseases, but in the form of an exception. SV also said that this is professionally complicated. It is therefore desirable that an exception should be dealt with by a professionally constituted entity which can decide on individual matters. We in the Workers' Party have taken the statements from SV seriously and said that is what we have to start from. We have had the aim in our work on this matter that the law should be amended, so that it no longer prevents Mehmet from being treated. All the evidence now suggests that the proposal of the Workers' Party, the SV and the Centre will have a majority today, by subsidising the Progress Party. What we're getting is that the law is going to go away. The law will no longer prevent, for example: Mehmet should be able to obtain treatment assistance. But there's been a debate up there: if it means that Mehmet will be guaranteed to receive treatment, if Mehmet will be guaranteed to get help. And to that I would say no. The majority does not decide who should be treated in Norwegian hospitals or, as in this case, who should receive financial support for treatment abroad. It is for everyone a professional, medical and ethical assessment that needs to be taken into account, as well as for Mehmet. Today we provide such a professional medical assessment. We make sure that it is no longer politically determined that it should not be allowed to help Mehmet and his family. So the law is going to go away. So it has been claimed from many teams that this collaboration between the Workers' Party and SV is something the Workers' Party has only gone into with a view to achieving a good climate in advance of any future government cooperation. There are many good reasons to prepare for future government cooperation, but it has not been the driving force in this matter. SV and the Workers' Party disagree on many important points in the issue of the law on human medicine use of biotechnology, but in this case we have taken SV seriously. They have said that they can imagine participating in a discussion about opening up a derogation from the law by establishing a name that can assess the specific cases. They have also said very clearly that it is not appropriate for SV to be involved in supporting the proposals of the Progress Party. That is why, in our opinion, it has been one possible dangerous way to remove the legal barriers, namely to achieve constructive cooperation with SV. I believe that we have succeeded. We've been able to find a cooperation that gives the majority the opportunity for the law to go away, but there are very strict criteria on which to base, among other things. with a wide-ranging professional title as a solution for this type of treatment. The only interesting thing in this case is, what is it possible to get a majority for? So this arrangement is possible to have a majority because the Central Party also supports it, and the Progress Party has said that they subsidiaryly support it. We in the Workers' Party could of course choose the line of rank to stand on what we have previously proposed. Then we would be downhearted, and the law barrier would still be there. That is why, in my opinion, this is an example of a practical good cooperation, for which I believe that this is at least all reason to give EN honor for. With this, I address the proposal on which the Workers' Party is associated with the SV and the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-11-lower.ana.ud592e185	The representative of Bjarne Håkon Hanssen has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-11-lower.ana.ud592e188	I will start by recording the proposal of the Advance Party included in the vote. There was a small family among our new countrymen, with a seriously ill child, who was first hit by the country's fundamentalist biotechnology law. This law does not give room for a aspect of mercy. We can expect similar issues to the Mehmet case to come on track as international research produces new revolutionary treatment results. The adherents of the law fear sorting with a more liberal law. In my opinion, this is a bad insinuation that pregnant women are not responsible for making the right choices. I refer to a recent report which shows that more and more women are carrying children with lyes found in previous studies. With the new and most restrictive law in the world, the Norwegian research communities are set on the sidelines. This is a solid defeat for a long recognition and knowledge tradition. With the law in hand and with the threat of punishment, a Norwegian research community shall refuse to contribute and participate in the necessary development of human service both in the prevention and treatment of serious illness. The majority behind the law – the government parties with the support of the Socialist Left – have put the greatest possible distance between ideologically motivated decisions and the consequences of these decisions for the lives, health and well-being of individuals, as we now see examples in this matter. It is a flight from ethical responsibility for the consequences of own actions the majority behind the law is now guilty of. Consequences show what is required of us as individuals and societies. The Mehmet case also has a mercy aspect that should be opposed to extreme ideological foresight. The restrictive law that has now been passed by a narrow majority in Stortinget, I personally believe is contrary to the majority of the Norwegian people. The starting point for this case in Odelstinget is Document No of the Progress Party. 8-proposal to amend §2-14 of the Biotechnology Act, namely to allow preimplantation diagnostics in the event of disorders other than the derogation in the Act, which relate only to gender-based heritable disease. Our proposal was and is not an attempt at a rematch on the Biotechnology Act, but that rematch will come, led by the Progress Party, when the political conditions in the Storting are at the heart of it. The biggest surprise for the Progress Party is that the Workers' Party, which was together with the Advance Party when we dealt with the law last autumn, now seems to have thrown on the boat all its ideological principles and will not vote for a change in law. Early in the phase of the Mehmet case, and after the Progress Party had signaled its proposal, many of us had the impression that the Workers' Party, which had co-existed with the Progress Party on the Biotechnology Act also in relation to § 2-14 on pre-implantation diagnostics, would vote in favour of the proposal to amend the law. If they had done so, the Socialist Left would have to vote politically with us. But after the representative Olav Gunnar Ballo of the Socialist Left Party had gone out loud and said that the Mehmet case had been brought on the field as a cynical game from the professional expertise in Norway, with good media support, the Socialist Left had great problems with popular opinion. As I saw it, and see it, the representative Olav Gunnar Ballo was taken by the matter, and entered the party leader, Kristin Halvorsen, who relatively early signaled that the Socialist Left would find an opportunity to give Mehmet treatment. And in contact with parliamentary leaders Jens Stoltenberg and Kristin Halvorsen, it was quickly found that these two parties would draw up a proposal for a derogation from §2-14 by a so-called removal. The Labour Party gave its ideology on the boat to save the Socialist Left from a very, very difficult political situation, while both of these parties used this matter – and I stress this matter – to facilitate government cooperation for 2005, where the Biotechnology Act would lie there as a serious task. This strange design of names to which it is addressed is based on the current complaint subject of contributions to foreign treatment for a completely different purpose, expanded by three persons to be appointed by the Ministry. In other words, the Ministry has full and complete control over this subject and can, of course, have a significant influence in theory on the future decisions of the denominator. According to the present proposal of the Socialist Left Party, the Labour Party and the Centre Party, decisions cannot be appealed. It means, in the opinion of the Progress Party, that, in such a controversial political issue, the decision-making authority is added to a body which is not subject to parliamentary control and how dissatisfied applicants are referred directly to the courts. This will probably be convenient for the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left in government cooperation, but this is consistently undemocratic. The decision taken today will not prevent the Progress Party from raising similar issues in the future. Will Mehmet now receive the treatment necessary in the light of the Odelstinget decision? In theory, I will answer yes, but on the other hand, the decision we are making today is, unfortunately, no guarantee that Mehmet will get the help he needs, using preimplantation diagnostics. The denominator is the sovereign in that way. During the 12th hour of the Committee's proceedings, the Party of Advances joined the following note: ‘The majority of the Committee, the members of the Labour Party, the Party of Advancement, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, indicate that paragraph 5 provides an opening to the legislation in relation to the so-called Mehmet case.’ It was absolutely essential to make this comment for the vote of the Progress Party today. It will strengthen the matter significantly in relation to Mehmet, and indirectly, as I interpret it, it will instruct the subject in relation to the application for pre-implantation when it is available. The Socialist Left Party, the Workers' Party and the Centre have made suggestions in the order that the law should come into force from the time the King decides. The Progress Party will vote against this and promote its own proposal that the law should enter into force immediately. It may take a very long time before the examination is operational and the family to Mehmet can send their application. If the proposal of the Progress Party had been adopted, the law would have entered into force one month after it had been sanctioned by the King, i.e. significantly earlier. Someone says it's not urgent with Mehmet. Yes, it's urgent every day. If we're able to get into this family's life situation, it's urgent, we know that. The Progress Party will give its subsidiary vote to the proposal of the Socialist Left Party, the Labour Party and the Central Party. The main reason for this is that Mehmet can now get help. But another important reason is that now, with this decision, one has drilled quite deeply into this law. In the future, it will be much easier to come back and change the law, after Odelstingen has made this decision. We see this in the Progress Party as a good side effect.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-11-lower.ana.ud592e233	The representative John I. Alvheim has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-11-lower.ana.ud592e236	On 4 May I took part in a debate at the Rikshospitalet on the basis of the matter we are discussing today in the Stortinget, Mehmet case. The forum in which I was present was mainly visited by professionals. Many people worked at the Rikshospital or in the health care of other hospitals, or there were medical students who had been particularly concerned about this issue. I think that debate in many ways was very rewarding and also had in it elements that are too rare to appear when we debate these kinds of questions here in the Chamber. What went on with the professionals who took the floor was that discussing issues of ethics without at the same time discussing the issue of overall resource use in the healthcare system becomes meaningless. If we don't look at how we collectively use the resources in order to help those who need it the most, it'll just be those who need it the most, who get hurt. I have to say that after the debate, where I had so far heard the word myself and had also heard the many recordings that came from professionals, there was a lot more optimism I left there. For this is a kind of consideration I'm happy that professionals are doing, and a kind of consideration that we politicians are going to expect them to do. But if they are to be safe on these kinds of assessments, we politicians must also dry them. This means that we need to discuss how we design a healthcare system so that the offers given appear to be meaningful — both from the point of view of the treatment being given and from the resources used for this. In the Mehmet case and through the arguments that have been put forward in the media, you can see how complicated these assessments are. I remember when I was first confronted with beta-thalassemia, that even though I have studied medicine, I had to go to the textbook and find out what it is. What's wrong with the structure of the hemoglobin? What makes the patient sick? What kind of treatment options exist? Is it true that the media claim that it will be possible to provide a treatment offer? You gradually figure it out, and you see that it's not easy. It would not be easy if the Storing in each case had to go into and assess the realities. In any case, it is not possible to assess the facts until such assessments have been made. In discussion with the management of our own party and through a fruitful process, we gave ourselves the time that was necessary. We looked at the legal design and tried to find out how to deal with this type of individual matter, and eventually came – at the highest level in common – that it would make sense to look at one special paragraph, which deals with pre-implantation diagnostics, and look at the possibility of making exceptions with regard to nematode treatment. I think the committee leader may be right that in the years to come, we will be able to face new issues that will be the subject of an assessment. It can be found that policy-makers want to address complex issues relatively quickly — as an alternative to their professional evaluation. In SV, we think it is appropriate to have a mention that makes professional judgements. There is already a topic that assesses complaints for the rest of the world, which has been working on these kinds of questions since 1999, and which needs to address both ethical challenges in terms of treatment provision and resource conditions related to the treatment provision to be provided. This name was created precisely on the basis of the recognition that it was inappropriate to deal with individual cases under the direction of the Ministry. I registered that the committee leader said that there would be no possibility to appeal after treatment in such a name. That's not right. There is appeal to the courts today, and SV, the Workers' Party and the Centre have stressed that as it is today, it should also be in the future. It'll be an appeal. But I have seen that it has also been a central element of the argument for the Progress Party that it should be possible to assess these kinds of issues independently of changing political constellations. It would then be quite inappropriate if there were individual cases to be brought against the Ministry. So we want appeals to the courts. It is important to have a denominator that is so broad that the different considerations and circumstances can be assessed in a good and professionally sound manner. I think the description given by Bjarne Håkon Hanssen is quite striking in relation to the assessments made by SV. In retrospect, you'll always be able to ask why you didn't take a position on a denominator earlier, and we'd like to say that we could have done that. In retrospect, we see that already when we adopted the odelsting proposal, it might have been appropriate to have the structure we are now getting in place. But we believe it is a force for the law that that possibility exists, precisely to ensure professionally sound treatment – instead of individual cases being brought before the Storting and in itself leads to a breach of the law. We also believe that when these matters are dealt with, there will be room for a kind of debate on professional assessments that may have been less room for now. I think that was well illustrated in the discussion at the Rikshospitalet, where questions were just asked about what is the consequence of opening up different elements of the law. What are the ringing effects for resource use, e.g. in relation to meeting the basic needs of the population? These are important discussions. That doesn't mean you shouldn't be busy helping people through new technology, but we can't do this in a vacuum, without asking ourselves the questions: what is the overall impact of the resources we put into the healthcare system? How does that give us a better health care overall? How do we ensure in the next round that those who are concerned about getting help in this area will also get it in other areas of society? How do we ensure a good kindergarten for the children, a school offer that is sound, and that the Stortinge acts together, so that resources are used in the best possible way? Of many other examples, we can see that, through schooling people to assess individual applications, you have the opportunity to achieve this balance. To the committee leader, I would say that there is nothing undemocratic about this. It is not that politicians decide to be admitted to a single school, that politicians consider who should be given priority in a health queue for treatment at the Rikshospital, or that politicians decide on a medical watch whether to be hospitalized or not. This is the exact same thing. On the other hand, the policy-makers constantly have the opportunity – if one sees this kind of denominator as inappropriate, or if one gets a practice in which the majority of the Storting disagrees – to change it. Therefore, it has been important for us in SV to assess the denominator structure after three years and see if it works after the intention. It has been important for SV that it is the State Health Authority that has to make an adjustment to the members who are to sit in the denominator, precisely to ensure independence. It could be thought that the Social and Health Directorate could do that, but we know that part of the criticism could have become too close to the ministry. Then we'll see after three years if it seems appropriate. So here it is said that the law should come into force immediately. For SV, it is important that there should be a political craft that has realism in it. We have stressed that in order for the law to come into force, it must first be in place, because if it enters into force immediately without a mention, you will not be able to fulfil it here. At the same time, we have laid the foundations for this to be put in place by 1 September, because we know that the name that exists today, to be extended, is to be re-appointed in August. So we have put in place a practical plan for this, which should not be an obstacle to individual case treatment, and which does not mean that time is wasted unnecessarily, but at the same time ensures the quality of the treatment to be given. If other parties have any desire here to improve these types of arrangements, to ensure the quality of these types of schemes, to help us get better assessments, we should be responsive to that. But of course it has to be done in a way that is practical, and not in such a way that there are only political marks in this room, regardless of how people have to experience it in society around us. Thank you for your attention!
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-11-lower.ana.ud592e270	This is no joy's day. There are no winners here. The debate is about politicians who run from their principles and the extent to which the media govern the political processes. Preimplantation diagnostics have been discussed in depth. The subject of biotechnology was shared in the view of its use if there was a risk that the child himself could get a disease, but was unanimous against testing the egg for tissue compatibility. It seems that most of the parties don't remember what a collective committee wrote a few months ago: ‘The Committee considers that one individual should not be subordinate to another and that the legislation should be based on the fact that no individual should be reduced to a means for other individuals, since each life is a goal in itself.’ The Christian People's Party stands firm on this point of view. We believe that the use of preimplantation diagnostics should not be opened in order to have a child who could be a donor to a sister or brother. Each person has a self-esteem. We cannot accept the sorting of life by properties. We can't see that new information has been generated that would indicate a change in this fundamental position. When we dealt with the staging message, the majority suggested a ban on preimplantation diagnostics. Under the law itself one saw that it was necessary to open up to this by «serious hereditary genital disease». In the debate, the rapporteur said: ‘The reason for clarifying ‘female’ is that the majority believe that serious demarcation problems would arise if the concept of ‘serious hereditary’ disease were to be accepted.’ The Christian People's Party was and agrees with this. In a short time, SV has left this principle. Now exemptions are accepted in the case of «serious hereditary disease without treatment options». Is it easier to define today? What is a serious illness? How long does a patient live or how much suffering should a patient have before an exception is made? The Christian People's Party fears that one of these people is going through an exception that you don't see the consequences of. What is the meaning of ‘no treatment options’? Is not the aid given today for thalassemia major for treatment? The Christian People's Party fears that the next step may lead to a further weakening of the law, as in Denmark, where one has removed the criterion of serious illness. I record that SV has not answered the case rapporteur if they want to change the law if a child with a serious illness, but who is not hereditary, needs the same type of help. In order to provide sub-sidized aid for removal, the Progress Party requires Mehmet to be assisted. It's quite unusual for a gunner to treat an individual case independently. The Christian People's Party is disappointed that the Center Party has also changed its position in four to five months. It seems this is the most strategic. It's more about being with the right parties than doing what's right. The background of Document No. The 8 is well-known. The media has rarely been rougher. The Minister of Health has been made in a terrible light. I think the Council of State can take a lot, because he knows that he's always fought to give Mehmet the very best treatment available. It is also possible to travel to countries with more experience of the disease. SV has tolerated the media pressure less. This will admit the representative of Ballo to the Class Battle on April 2nd this year. The proposal for a dispensation “came because we wanted to get away from the pressure,” he says. For me, this is weird. During an interpellation debate in March this year he was the strongest critic that Akersgata was going to rule over the Stortinget. There is today a change in the Biotechnology Act, but it doesn't change anything for Mehmet. There is no waiting treatment. It's created false expectations. A large majority note that the method is not available. It concerns research and not any established treatment. In the future, a person may be able to help new cases of a bearing umbilical cord blood at birth. The Christian People's Party supports an investigation into such a biobank. We believe this is a forward-looking treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-11-lower.ana.ud592e307	In this debate, it is important that a person approaches what is involved in legal work and the concrete issues to do, with humility and cause, both in relation to ethics and in relation to the fate of individuals. The centre party has tried to clarify this matter as best as possible, and with good assistance from among others. The subject of biotechnology and other professionals we organised a seminar on biotechnology law and pre-implantation diagnostics. We believe that we have tried to see this matter from a principle and general point of view, and not just as an individual matter in relation to one person and the wording that has been in the media, although we want Mehmet and others with similar disorders to be able to get help. Humility and objectivity do not seem to have shaped the debate very much. For example, in the case of: It is claimed here that we have a fundamentalist biotechnology law, it is wrong, in my opinion. There is little respect for the vision behind this law. When the representative Höie also compares the choice between blue and brown eyes with the choices we have to try to make in relation to serious hereditary disease, something is going to be wrong. Serious hereditary disease, which may give a painful life, a painful treatment and reduced life expectancy, should be assessed differently from this by choosing between blue and brown eyes. Something else becomes polemic and unworthy of the severity of these cases. We need to have mercy and help and care ethic in mind to help those who are born into a life of great pain and reduced function of life. And I just have to say that this is a difficult matter, with different views both on ethics and on the practice of biotechnology and legislation. That's what I want to say on behalf of both the Center Party and myself, and I'm trying to respect the points of view that come here. But when we in the committee have concluded that we want to support an opening in sections 2 to 14 in preimplantation diagnostics, it is an attempt to try to cope with the suffering and life prospects of some people, compared to having a serious hereditary disease. We believe that these are things that we cannot have as individual things in Stortinget. Nor should we have such individual handling in Stortinget. But when we try to approach this more generally, it is clear that we need clear and strong criteria for how to do this. Acceptance to monitor tissue compatibility as a method requires strict entry conditions and criteria for the practical application of such methods. That is why we support a denominator that is based on the denominator that is now dealing with contributions to treatment abroad. We want to strengthen such a name with three representatives, so that one person has one representative with special competence in the field, one member with special competence in the field of infertility investigation and genetics and one member appointed as a representative of one of the organisations of the disabled, and that this name is nominated by the State Health Authority and appointed by the Ministry. We also believe that this denominator and denominator function should be evaluated after three years. Furthermore, we believe that matters to be referred to should first be referred to the Biotechnology Topic for an opinion and that the Biotechnology Subject Secretariat should act as a secretariat in the preparation of the Biotechnology Topic. We believe that this provides a good professional assurance of these matters. We also believe that ethics and professionalism through this should be properly combined. In terms of the criteria that are added up to here, there are eight points. I want to say a little about these points – at least I want to mention some of them – which I think are among the most important: that the sick child should suffer from a serious hereditary and life-threatening disease, that there are no other treatment options, and alternatives to sibling donation of stem cells. We also believe that it should be such as to ensure that the child being born does not have this disease – it must be a significant moment – and that the healthy child should not be subjected to unacceptable treatment that could threaten health or be seriously painful or otherwise offensive. These are important things that I think one should put more emphasis on when one discusses this, than perhaps what has come up to now, with shadow boxing and attack on each other's ethical basis to have views on this matter. I would also like to remind you that there is a joint committee that is in favour of establishing a biobank, a blood bank, where one can have a resource that provides opportunities for part of this treatment, without being controversially justified.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-11-lower.ana.ud592e329	When the case of little Mehmet, who touched us all, was turned up in all the country's newspapers and became a repeat on the TV screen, there were many who not only asked questions about, but who insisted that the majority of the Storting didn't know what they were doing when they passed the Biotechnology Act six months earlier. Not only do I know what I did when I was with and treated and passed the law, I would do the exact same thing again today. The attitude of the majority has both an ethical and a practical problem side. This decision breaks important ethical boundaries, and goes beyond the minority desired in the process of the Biotechnology Act. The majority of the Social Committee invites Odelstinget to take a decision that allows a person to be born for the purpose of becoming a means for another person. Not only shall the fertilised egg be examined to determine whether it is the bearer of a serious disease, it must also have a particular type of tissue. So a fertilized egg that is free of disease can be removed because it has the wrong type of tissue to become a donor, which in itself is completely irrelevant to the life and health of the child to come. I have no doubt that such a child is a wanted child. But just as fully this child will be born because it has qualities that can help another human being. I also think that the public debate that has been bears the mark that such a child is already seen as a means. The perpetrators of changes to the law speak mainly of the sick, while the future spare part people have received little attention. I have to ask if these coming children are not entitled to discuss what right we have to cultivate a human being like us, for example. at the age of one, put in full anesthesia to obtain bone marrow. The practical concern in this case is that even if the exemption system is adopted today, it is doubtful whether it will help Mehmet and persons with a similar disease. For the majority, yes to non-established treatment services, and in cases where trials have been conducted, there is no evidence of a single successful outcome. The Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party, in their comments, describe closely the relationship with the so-called Mehmet case. In a note to which the government parties have joined, the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party say: ‘The majority are aware that this method is not generally available and that the studies that have taken place in Europe, as far as the majority have been able to gain experience, are research and not established treatment facilities.’ In Criterion 5 for the application of the method referred to above, the proposers write: ‘The treatment of the sick child with umbilical stem cells or bone marrow from a future healthy sister or brother based on medical experience may be expected to lead to a decisive improvement in the health and/or survival of the child.’ There is no documented medical experience regarding the use of this method — as the same proposers themselves have written. Then it's amazing that the same parties, together with the Advance Party, say: ‘The majority of the Committee, the members of the Labour Party, the Party of Advancement, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, indicate that paragraph 5 provides an opening to the legislation in relation to the so-called Mehmet case.’ No, point 5 requires medical experience, which the same batches have previously identified as non-existent. I think this is tragic, given that it is this remark that leads to the Progress Party supporting the proposal – and therefore today's amendment of the law gets a majority. The fact that this treatment is unlikely in practice to help those it is intended to help is therefore also ethical. It's going to be throwing blues in the eyes of someone who's basically in an extremely difficult situation. In this case, the majority have been seduced and misled by Akersgata and parts of the research community that want a rematch on the biotechnology law, and that sees this as a first step in that way. The fact that the Progress Party and the Workers' Party are involved in this may not be so strange, considering their positions during the processing of the Biotechnology Act, but that the SV and the Centre are also involved in this eroding of the law, is all the more incomprehensible – the Socialist Left Party with the representative Ballo at the head as both the case rapporteur and the leading defender of the ethical guidelines that were drawn there, and the Centre Party that did not in any way deviate from the same borders. The centre party showed a touching concern for the manipulation of grain and the cloning of bees when we recently treated the cloning of animals, but to make one human being the means for another, that's fine! I also hope that the debate will give an answer as to how far the majority will go. What about the next single issue that appears, which is not covered by the guidelines that this name has received? Where's the limit going? Finally, I want to say that everyone is affected by the matter of little Mehmet and his family, and everyone wants his best. It is therefore important to stress that he receives the best treatment available, and that treatment should continue to be given to him, regardless of what is adopted here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-11-lower.ana.ud592e368	The case of Odelstinget today affects a very fundamental and difficult field in the field of human medical use of biotechnology. The issue is special, because the media have, by means of a single issue, pushed forward amendments to the new Biotechnology Act. The massive exposure of the Mehmet case in the media has led to an accelerated process in which fundamental positions to which the Stortinget joined when the Biotechnology Act was adopted last November are now being waived. I think it is particularly worrying when this change in principle does not have its background in the fact that we have now been confronted with new problems or new knowledge. The ethical concerns related to genetic testing of fertilised eggs and the selection of fertilised eggs with a view to creating humans as a means for others were discussed and discussed in the context of the work of the Biotechnology Act. The only new thing is that we're given the ethical issues a face via the media, and this has several parties let themselves be pushed off. I have listened attentively to the debate so far and have not heard any new argument in the debate here today in relation to the situation in November last year when the Stortinget dealt with the law. With regard to the disease thalassemia major, which is the starting point of the proposed legislative amendment, I would like to stress that we are giving the best treatment for this disease that is possible in Norway today. I have explained this in a letter to the Social Committee on 16 March. in the light of a professional inquiry by the Directorate for Social and Health. The Directorate stresses that the treatment arrangements offered in Norway are medically sound. Mehmet is currently receiving transfusion in combination with medication. It is regrettable that medical treatment often causes a lot of unpleasant and annoying side effects. Within the framework of the law, I have promised to turn all the stones to help Mehmet and others in his situation. In relation to the specific case, I have wanted to offer an assessment and any treatment abroad at a centre that has more experience in the treatment of thalassemia, for example. in Italy. That offer is at hand. The optimal treatment of thalassaemia is as known stem cell transplantation from a tissue type comparable donor. This treatment is currently established in those cases where close relatives are tissue-like. The majority of the population now appear to want to amend the Biotechnology Act, so that by examining and selecting fertilised eggs, a healthy child with the proper tissue type can be created with the intention of treating a sick brother or sister. In the specific case, this has almost been produced as an established treatment method that is generally available abroad, and that only Norwegian law prevents Mehmet from getting well. That's not the case. I would like to stress that in the case of Mehmet, the family has applied for such treatment in Sweden, but received a refusal. They have also questioned the possibilities of treatment in the United Kingdom and Denmark without receiving an offer. After careful studies, the Social and Health Directorate has only found evidence that examination of fertilised eggs to exclude disease and to find tissue compatibility for the treatment of thalassaemia has been tested in Belgium. In two cases, fertilised eggs shall have been inserted at a centre in Brussels into a woman’s uterus after genetic double testing of the fertilised eggs. Only one of the trials resulted in pregnancy, and this ended later with spontaneous abortion. The example from Belgium illustrates how small the chances are of reaching the desired result, namely a healthy child who may be a bone marrow donor to a sick sister or brother. The Belgian case also shows the enormous burden on the woman in particular, which is to be subjected to severe hormone stimulation in order to mature and extract enough eggs for fertilisation. I am very surprised that SV is now proposing to amend the Biotechnology Act, which they themselves recently helped to adopt, at such a significant and fundamental point as the Odelstinget is dealing with today. It's also surprising that the Center Party is behind this, because they've always been in line with the government parties in this area. In St.meld. No 14 for 2001-2002 on the evaluation of the Biotechnology Act, the regulation of genetic testing of fertilised eggs prior to implantation into the uterus was carefully assessed. In the message, expression was given for: ‘that the department is highly critical of this form of diagnostics due, inter alia, to the ethically problematic sorting of fertilised eggs by the method’. On this basis, it was assessed whether an explicit prohibition on the use of preimplantation diagnostics should be introduced, but the Communication concluded that the current regulation could be maintained in this area and said: ‘However, the Ministry has come to the conclusion that the chapter should be retained, so that, if the method is updated in the future, it has a code to fall back on.’ During the examination of the notification by the Social Committee, the majority of the Committee asked the Government to consider removing the chapter on pre-implantation diagnostics and replacing it with a ban on such diagnostics. The government was asked to come back to this in the announced proposition. The majority, including SV and the Centre Party, expressed, inter alia: att ‘an opening for preimplantation diagnostics could involve emphasising the special characteristics of the foetus, i.e. in practice sorting according to defined criteria. The majority do not wish to facilitate such sorting, since the majority believe that such sorting will also affect the general attitude of born individuals in terms of characteristics even before implantation». The government followed the call from the bulk of the population, including SV and the Center Party, and promoted in Ot.prp. No 64 for 2002-2003 on new biotechnology laws prohibiting preimplantation diagnostics. The majority of the social committee, including the SV and the Central Party, show in the subsequent vote that they had previously been in favour of that legislative amendment. Nevertheless, the proposal was amended and the SV and the Centre were involved in adopting a provision that allowed genetic testing of fertilised eggs in special cases in case of severe hereditary genital disease without treatment options. Today, only five months later, these parties have re-destroyed and proposed changes in violation of their previously expressed principal position. The class struggle, as mentioned by other speakers today, had a look at April 2nd this year, entitled ‘SV got pressure from media driving’. Here, the representative, Ballo, admits that parts of the SV's proposal came because they wanted to get away from the press. It's very regrettable, and you can ask yourself whether satisfying the media is more important than making good, well-considered decisions. The proposal, for which, with the subsidiary support of the Progress Party, appears to be a majority, is unclear and raises several interpretative questions. If the law following this amendment is to become practical, it should, inter alia: the lack of coherence between the legal text and the criteria set out in the setting is clarified. In this setting, the proposal from SV, the Working Party and the Centre party appears to be exclusively concerned with the examination of fertilised eggs with a view to finding the identical type of tissue with a treatment-intensive child. It is uncertain whether those criteria in the submission apply absolutely to any application for genetic examination of fertilised eggs, which then excludes those cases where couples only want to examine fertilised eggs for serious hereditary disease but where no tissue compatibility is sought. Another uncertainty is whether the proposed extension of the complaint subject to a waiver and appeal subject should apply in all cases covered. The vote suggests that the title be extended by three members, but there is reason to ask whether these three should only address matters under the Biotechnology Act, or whether they should be permanently extended from five to eight members. These and other questions raised by the rapporteur-in-Office should be answered in the course of the debate by those who wish to amend the law today. In the setting, SV, the Workers’ Party and the Centre have clarified that the general conditions applicable to treatment abroad should apply mutatis mutandis to treatment abroad under the Biotechnology Act. It's important to be aware of the change that's here on the stairs. Following amendments to the Patient Rights Act, which enters into force on 1 September, the right to treatment abroad will be governed by the Patient Rights Act under more detailed conditions. The starting point for the evaluation will be whether the patient is entitled to the necessary health care and whether there is an adequate medical offer in Norway. I think it is bad that the Biotechnology Act is proposed to be amended, so that the ethical boundaries are shifted towards a greater acceptance for sorting in Norwegian society. By yielding to individual things, we move out on a slope that we do not overlook the consequences of. Obviously, we all want to help Mehmet and others who are in a similar situation, so that they can get the best possible treatment. I will continue to work hard for that. But it has to be about available, established treatment, and not about experimental treatment, which also assumes that one must first create a human being as a means for others, and then expose this human being to an experiment. An overall social committee expressed itself in the setting of Ot.prp. No 64 for 2002-2003 on the Biotechnology Act: ‘no individuals shall be reduced to a means for other individuals, since each life is a goal in itself’. Furthermore, a amendment to the Biotechnology Act does not change the fact that the examination of fertilised eggs is a highly uncertain way of treating thalassaemia and that such treatment is not an established method. As mentioned above, no case of such treatment has been documented. As you can see, the safest SV and the Center Party have achieved through today's suspension, helping the Progress Party to re-fight the legal regulation of genetic testing of fertilised eggs. The Progress Party has, for its part, taken an initiative which, paradoxically, has contributed to a political approach in this area between three parties with ambitions of government responsibility combined. It's a big paradox. Paradoxically, I also think it is that the majority in the cast chooses to ignore clear warnings from the Norwegian Medical Association, from the figures of disabled people's organisations, from leading bishops and from several leading professionals. I will, as the Council of State, deal with the decisions of the Stortinget. But there should be no doubt in this Chamber about what I think about the proposal that the majority is about to put behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-11-lower.ana.ud592e425	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-11-lower.ana.ud592e428	I feel that the Council of State used its 10 minutes to argue against what is going to be adopted here. This made the Council of State so powerful that questions can be asked about whether the Council of State has intended to comply with the decision that the Stortinget will take today. I would like to ask the Council of State: in what way has the Council of State intended to follow up the decision that the Storting will take today? Will the Council of State ensure that the law enters into force in line with what is contained in the observations, and in such a way that the name can be re-appointed in August, and that the law can enter into force from 1 September? Or will the Council of State, in the extension of the post that the Council of State has made today, use the time that will prevent the law from coming into force in line with its intention, so that it is delayed in time, and you may have to get the matter back in order to get the law to come into force?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-11-lower.ana.ud592e435	I don't know if the representative Ballo heard after what I said in my post, but I actually made it clear that I want to deal with the decisions Stortinget makes. In that it is that I will normally ensure that the decision of the Storting is implemented. But it is my duty, as it is the duty of any representative in this Chamber, to express my assessment of the matters being dealt with. I have, and there should be no doubt about that. What surprises me is that representatives Ballo and SV do not see that, through what they're doing here today, they are involved in opening up new class divisions in Norway and will counteract the struggles for an inclusive society. It is not by chance that the representatives of disabled people's organisations have warned of what is happening here.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-11-lower.ana.ud592e442	The end of the Council of State's posts may seem a little worrying. The Council of State said he is going to respect the laws adopted in this house, and there I believe the Council of State. On the other hand, he added that there should be no doubt about what he thought about this proposal. The last thing I didn't like, dear state councillor. My question is about time. This small family waits and waits when it is possible to submit an application. Then is my short question to the Council of State: When does the Council of State expect this now adopted name to be operational? Do you think about months, or do you think about years?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-11-lower.ana.ud592e449	I am quite amazed at the line taken by the representative Alvheim. I know the representative Alvheim as a person who greatly appreciates clear speech and who himself stands for clear speech. That he didn't like that the Council of State wanted there to be no doubt about what he thought about this proposal, I don't get to vote quite, based on how I know the representative Alvheim, and what he has expressed in various contexts that he values, but it's got to be. That is probably the content of the clear speech the representative Alvheim does not like. I have registered that the proposal from the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre seems to have a majority here today. With that proposal, there is some premise, related to the progress of the case. I am going to work without delay to implement what the Storting decides. I think it is natural to look at the premises for the progress that SV, the Workers' Party and the Centre have included in their proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-11-lower.ana.ud592e456	I find reason to remember that when we dealt with the biotechnology law last November, all parties, including the government parties, made an exception in that law in order to help those who were at risk of getting a serious hereditary genital disease. This applies, inter alia, to: to respond to the treatment of bleeders, or rather to avoid contracting that disease. So now a majority is going to be able to grant exemptions on very strict terms in the case of serious hereditary disease. And then the Health Minister says that this leads to a sorting society, that this leads to class divisions. Is it true that a distinction between health classes is established when exemptions were made for serious hereditary genital disease? But now the Minister of Health sees this as much more serious. I believe that we do not open up a sorting society, as the organisations of the disabled have warned against. We're opening up to help a new group with serious hereditary disease.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-11-lower.ana.ud592e465	The provision adopted by the Stortinget in November last year gives a very narrow opening compared to severe gender-related disease. Now it opens for genetic testing in the case of serious disease in general. But what's the big step, and I hope that the Center Party and the representative of Joy have brought with it, is that we actually, through what it's added up to by the majority here, open up a testing of tissue compatibility, in order to make a future child a supplier of cells for a sick child. That's the big step, the very greatest principal step, as the majority, including the Center Party, are doing here today. I have to say that I stand by every word I have said that this can contribute to a class distinction, where including people who are different becomes more difficult. I refer to what the Secretary-General of the Armed Forces has said, that he is pleased with the ban on genetic testing and sorting out fertilised eggs. The central thing should be how society accepts those who are a little different.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-11-lower.ana.ud592e472	I have a line for the Council of State. He and others in the hall talk about a possible child to be born, unilaterally as a supplier of cells to another child, or as a means of another life. That's not what we're talking about. We're talking about a person who can live a perfectly happy life, but who's not going to be exposed to overload. It is in the Committee's observations on the matter. If the Council of State or anyone else in this room is trying to establish a human vision of a person who can be born, as if this is a unilateral supplier of cells to another person, or a substitute, it has gone a long way into creating the class society against which the Council of State warns.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-11-lower.ana.ud592e481	The term I used is not something I have invented myself. It is derived from an attitude, to which SV has also joined – a formulation that ‘no individuals should be reduced to a means for other individuals, since each life is a goal in itself’. I believe that this is challenged by a change in the law that opens up the testing of tissue compatibility. It's a fundamental step from testing to help the child you're dealing with, to help create a child to help someone else. It's a big principal step! I hope that the representative Halvorsen sees the difference, and is aware that by voting for the majority vote here today, they are taking the step.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-11-lower.ana.ud592e489	Several have not asked for the word for a line. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-11-lower.ana.ud592e494	After listening to the debate here today, it's hard for me to sit back with something other than a negative impression and a sad picture. Today's debate has shown us that we politicians are very happy to boast of our principles, of our values and of our ethics, when it pays off. But today's debate has also shown that exactly the same politicians throw their principles aside when critical questions are asked about these principles. I found today that the word populism is the most striking. I've had a lot of respect for SV in this field before. But when I now see that it is Dagbladet and TV 2 that governs the party's policy, I start to wonder what the representative Olav Gunnar Ballo said in Stortinget on 4 March this year. He said, ‘That is why there is every reason to warn against a type of policy to be governed by media postings on TV 2 and the Newspaper, instead of a long-term, thoughtful policy by a political majority in this matter. Journalists in Dagbladet and TV 2 shall not determine Norway’s health policy. You're actually going to do that in the Storting,...» This quote stands in a ghastly contrast to the essay in the class struggle on Friday 2 April, where Olav Gunnar Ballo admits that he was being pressed by the newspaper in this case. In that case, a person must almost allow himself to ask the question of what is being warned of was their own way of operating health policies. That SV would be involved in giving up control and authority in ethical matters within health to journalists and Akersgata, shocking and surprising me. What's happening in Odelstinget today, saw this house in a bad light. As a consequence of SV's reverse operation, we have looked up the media with the following title: How to change a law. There are concrete overviews of how to change attitudes of toothless politicians when only the media drive is strong enough. There are specific rules on how to lobby politicians. The center party also has no reason to lift the tab today. The Central Party representative talked about having an audacious and open debate, but the Central Party does not come up with a single argument as to why they have a different attitude today than they had six months ago. It may seem that the Centre Party happily throws its principles on the boat in order to be allowed to participate in a future government cooperation on the left. It's also strange, considering that for a while we're dealing with a matter of cloning animals, where the Center Party really stood on the barricades. This time, I don't see anything to the side of the barricades. But what makes this debate even more grumpy is that there is no other established treatment. Mehmet gets the best offer today, and this also says the Committee's plural: ‘These members consider that an acceptance to map tissue compatibility as a method must require very strict entry conditions, which set clear limits on when the method is to be used, if it is to be practically available.’ To think that there is a treatment offer in this area is something like the emperor's new clothes – it's a fraud.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-11-lower.ana.ud592e517	This is becoming a very strange debate. Here the government parties throw themselves over their former comrades in the Socialist Left Party because they have changed sides in this matter. The representative Osmundnes is talking about giving the best treatment available. The Minister for Health rightly stated in his statement: within the framework of the law, we provide the best treatment possible in Norway per year. today. And that's probably the most correct picture. It is a difficult matter, and it bears the mark of the debate. But when you listen to the saying itself, and what you throw at each other, it's put in a little strange light. I am absolutely sure that all parties in this room want to help Mehmet get a proper treatment. We have different views on, among other things: use of the possibilities offered or whether the law is strict enough or not. For the Advancement Party, it is important that we send today a signal that one of the world’s most stringent biotechnology laws – or perhaps the most stringent – finally provides a reasonable opening. I'll actually give SV credit for at least trying a little bit in the right direction. But the problem is just that what is adopted today is not a proper solution, for what if the denominator says no? The problem that comes up then is that you have to go to the courts. What the courts are assessing is whether this is in line with the law or not. And then the question is, is the law clear enough for the courts to make the decision they are going to make? It is in this respect that the majority comment, such as The progress party finally got in, becomes so very important, and where it is just at point 5 that it opens for treatment in the Mehmet case. It will be possible for the courts to use it in their proceedings, for it is to be regarded as the preliminary work of the law. I hope now that this matter gets its solution, a quick solution. And when the representative Åse Gunhild Woie Duesund stands on this pulpit today and says that this is no joyous day for anyone, well, then you actually forget Mehmet and his family. It may be a happy day if the decision we make today opens up so that the family can receive the treatment they actually need for their child. I do not see the child as a tool to which it is referred. I think of that child as a wanted child, as a wanted child in a family, who will grow up on the same line and equivalent to any other child. I don't see it as a tool. I see it as a living life that is equivalent to all of us.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-11-lower.ana.ud592e528	I think this debate illustrates in a good way how poor it is to discuss the fundamental ethical issues in an area in relation to a law that regulates some of the most fundamental values in society, on the basis of a single case. From those who make up the majority, it has been focused on the political game: who has pressured who, who is going to cooperate with who, and not least, there have been quite glaring perceptions of what is supposed to be the perception of what one is adopting today. When the representative Alvheim says that the purpose of this is to drill into the law so that you can make changes in the future, it would be interesting if the representative Olav Gunnar Ballo could say whether he agreed or disagreed in such a presentation. I would like to address the proposal that the government parties are behind, and at the same time explain that, with regard to the proposal from the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre, we will vote in favour of the amendment to Section 2-4, bearing in mind that it is correcting a practical error in relation to the legislative decision that was taken last November. We will vote in favour of the sentence under the second, third and fourth paragraphs of Section 2-14, which shall read as follows: ‘The decision of the name may not be appealed against.’ It would be inappropriate for these types of cases to be brought before the Ministry, while other types of cases such as this one are being dealt with are being appealed to the courts. In the case of the sentence ‘For the purposes of determining whether authorisation is to be granted, the application shall be submitted to the Biotechnology Topic’, the Government Parties will vote against it. We see no reason why biotechnology should also deal with these issues. We will vote in favour of II of this proposal: ‘The law shall apply from the time of the King’. In addition, we will vote against the other proposals, with the exception of the unanimous recommendation of the Committee on Biobanks for umbilical cord blood.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-11-lower.ana.ud592e556	The representative Bent Höie has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-11-lower.ana.ud592e559	A long time ago, a famous English biologist and science historian wrote an essay claiming that the entire history of science can so far be put on a simple formula that he called the "The Devils Doctrine". It sounds like this: anything that can be done should be done. He himself argued that we have now reached a level of knowledge in some critical research areas where it is no longer possible to practice that doctrine, but where we are forced to take a stand on what can be done, what is to be done. The majority in this room today want to take a decision that goes in the opposite direction. You want to make it clear that what can't be done, too, is to be done. It's a strong message. What really worries me at the same time is that when you listen to this debate, you will hear that the majority have a sharp contrast to the perception of what they are actually in favour of adopting. The representative of Ballo indicated that the new scheme should be evaluated to see whether it complies with the intention. Well, whose intention, John I. Alvheims or Olav Gunnar Ballos? For the two intentions go in the opposite direction. I have rarely heard such a clear statement as the committee's chairman made today, with regard to the so-called slope-plan argument, which is an ever-repeating argument in ethical debates of this kind. But John I. Alvheim also argued in the very opposite direction of what is common. He wants the sloping planet. That is why the Progress Party is voting in favour of the proposal. You want to do that slope as fast as you can, because that way you can get rid of all the bars for what is acceptable. The criteria the majority has formulated in its bill have a consistency as a medium-sized sailor. When you say that there is a condition to admit that there is no other treatment, you have already ruled out the Mehmet case in reality – if it is serious, well to notice. If this is not meant to be serious, then you should have been clear enough to say in plain language that you either, like John I. Alvheim, want to instruct a subject to do that big crowd at any time finds too good, or – in the opposite direction – that you actually rule out that this matter can be accommodated within the law. It is not the restrictive biotechnology law that is at the heart of the matter or the problem at all. Why, for example, do you have to do this? The Swedes, who do not have a restrictive biotechnology law, said no?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-11-lower.ana.ud592e570	It's an interesting debate, it's a difficult debate, and it's a debate where it's easy to add to each other's motives. I don't think the change that happened in the Socialist Left Party has come on the basis of the Government's wishes and speculations, even though they are strong enough. I don't think it's the kind of motif that's behind it, but I think one has given up for pressure. Immanuel Kant's statement is the background to what has been said many times: "You're always going to treat a person as a goal in itself and not just as a means of something else." What we're doing today is asking questions at the time of appointment. Both the representative Ola D. Glötvold and the representative Kristin Halvorsen have said that it is an independent individual with its own value that must also be a donor. Yeah, we believe them in it. But there's also opening for something more in the formulations here, and one goes out on a slope plane. The matter is too serious to ironize over the outline. But it would have been interesting if SV from this pulpit confirmed that it was not the slope they were interested in. When it comes to what one was in total agreement on the laws of genetic and biotechnology, I hope SV will stand firm on what was intention and the main direction, with the exception of today, and not as the representative Alvheim says: this is in one way the crux that is needed to break down that construction. I have great respect for the representative Olav Gunnar Ballo. I am sorry that he has come into a situation where he is pressured to where he is today. But it would have been interesting if both he and the representative Kristin Halvorsen had confirmed that what we've been together about, in addition to what's formulated here today, is what it says, and that one isn't inside that slope plane. Philosopher Francis Schaeffer said in 1979, "When things that are unimaginable today become both conceivable and acceptable, no one will remember that they were unimaginable." That's the risk here too. Then I thought it was important that we say: we are very happy with the research that can give better lives. But the whole hall has said, "It's necessary to set up ethical fire walls." I hope that the firewall that was then seen stands, with the exception that lies here. It would be good if the people we were together with would actually confirm that this is the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-11-lower.ana.ud592e581	It is very rare that I in this Chamber choose to take the floor to defend a representative of a political party other than what I represent myself, but the speeches that have come today, not least from the Christian People's Party and the Right to the Party SV and the representative Ballo, make me feel the need to link some comments to it. The theory that is launched with full gravity is that the only reason SV takes the position they take today is because they've made a knee attack for Akersgata. It is the journalists in Dagbladet and on TV 2 who are now making sure that SV is on that proposal and will vote as they do in this room. And it's followed up with the following additional theory: first, you get pressure, and then it's a very bad political trait to change your political stance as a result of a comprehensive social debate. The good politician is the politician who stands as a pillar, no matter what kind of practical consequences he sees from his own positions. Today, therefore, SV is produced as a weak party, with weak politicians, among others. Representative Ballo. This is in stark contrast to the debate in November. The same parties then stated that the representative Ballo was a wise man, who had understood so much of the biotechnology, who understood how important it was to fight research on fertilized eggs, who understood how important it was to be against egg donation, how important it was to be against anonymous sperm donors. At that time, the representative of Ballo’s judgements were consistently wise and sensible. But when the representative Ballo has thought about and found out – with the same wise head – that he now believes something else at one point, then there is no assessment, then there is not a position that is justified, then there is weakness and pressure. I think it's a strange kind of argument. And it amazes me even more that you think the representative Ballo is still very wise on the question of the view of research on fertilized eggs, but that he has thus lost any sense and thinking in the view of preimplantation diagnostics. I often disagree – deeply disagreed – with the representative Ballo on matters that we deal with in the social committee. I have also deeply disagreed with him in relation to the biotechnology law, but have never found reason to question his motives, and I think it is strange that it is done as strongly as it is today.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-11-lower.ana.ud592e592	SV and I personally have been very interested in the issues raised in this case for many years. That's because we think they're important, because they're in an area where our ethical standards are challenged, and because ethics and medicine may stand up to each other. I would very much like to be able to talk to Alvheim's sloping safety on the one hand, namely, to allow everything that is possible to be allowed, or as the Højbrått does on the other hand, namely, here it is to do to dampen up for what had to come. For me, the ethical considerations that this case travels are not such that it is possible to find one answer and put two lines below it. Most of us believe that in the fight for a child's life you stretch far. You even break laws to save someone's life. In this case, it's not about saving a child's life first or second year, but improving it strongly, at least in the long term. It's one ethically high-valued motive to have. On the other hand, you often have counter-conceptions if you are to put another person under pressure — or even perhaps choose, that the human being exists at all — for the sake of a third person. But what's most ethically high in such a balance? It's about what kind of load you put on, what's actually possible, and what kind of balance you finally do. It is difficult to say that Christian ethics and morals mean that one does not go as far as possible to save a human life, and it is difficult to say that there are no boundaries on the other side. It's these difficult balances you're facing in such a case. What the Storting is doing today is saying, "We're removing the rule of law that means you shouldn't be able to go into the difficult balances in individual cases." We're doing one more thing, and that's saying, it's not just those who want to stand out in the media with their destiny, who are going to have the opportunity to get there. Also those who do not want to expose their case in the media, should have the opportunity to try their case for a name without having to take the extra burden it is to expose their case and tell everyone about it. It's actually very important. So the question is, has SV turned around? Is this a kneecap? That kind of thinking makes very little impression on me. In my opinion, the policy is to allow ourselves to be met by individual creatures. What provokes me when it comes to media production in this case is that they don't properly produce what is actually possible procedures, because it can give a completely different picture of what is the actual situation, but not that we're going to face individual cases, because we have to. We're on the law we passed last year. But we believe that if you're going to have a law that sets some limits, you get into situations where you might have to make some exceptions. If you don't have any possibilities for an exception in a strict law, the law just comes out.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-11-lower.ana.ud592e605	To the representative Kristin Halvorsen I must be allowed to say that I do not believe that everything that is possible should be allowed. If you follow in the story when the law was being treated in this house, the representative Kristin Halvorsen knows that then also happened, that we were opposed to things that SV would go further on. That's the one. The second is talking about religion, being a Christian, etc. I also have a personal Christian stand. But it's possible to get to another result than what this government has done. Actually, it does. I do not like the argument that this should be the most ethical, Christianly sound in this law. I can claim that from my point of view, I find it much more important as a Christian person and citizen to make sure that we alleviate suffering, we shall save human lives where it is possible to do so. That's my starting point. So to the representative Inge Wohnning: Yes, Mehmet was refused in Sweden. But what was the reason for the rejection? They weren't Swedish citizens. It could also have included Inge Wohnung in his post. So finally: even today in this case of Mehmet, these terrible words have been used, that one should put to the world a child that should be spare parts for another. Is it even possible to think about those thoughts in relation to the family of Mehmet? Is it possible to think about those thoughts? It is impossible to think such thoughts from a Christian standpoint.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-11-lower.ana.ud592e616	The next speaker is Ola T. Glötvold.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-11-lower.ana.ud592e620	I have to make it clear that the middle letter is D. I used to say D to David sometimes, in the fight against Goliath that sometimes leads here. So to the matter, I have to say that the Christian People's Party is very busy making contradictions here. I think the parliamentary leader, Jon Lilletun, had a lot of wise words, but when we hear the representative, Osmundnes, I get a little bored. It is at least from that team a little humility and little respect for the eyesight of others. I have to remind you again that serious, hereditary gender-related disease was a Christian People's Party to dispensate for. There's a lot of the same diagnostic that happens there – so it's fixed. Osmundnes says that I was on the barricades in the matter of animal cloning. Yes, I'd like to, I'm trying to stand on the barricades in the things I'm engaged in, but I'm also trying to bring with me the humility and the twin. When I stood on the barricades in relation to the cloning of animals, it was primarily from the point of view of man and human health, with humility and uncertainty so that strong liberalisation in that area could lead to unknown long-term effects and have consequences for public health. So to this, we're under the pressure of the media. I don't feel the pressure of the media, but I see that there's a drive going on. I think we should also admit from this speaker that we are not so far enough in November 2003, that we are not that far enough in relation to ethical considerations and opportunities to have practical arrangements and availability, so that we can help those whom we believe it is ethically possible to help. This is not an offer established in Norway and Europe. I realize that, and I also admit it in the setting in comments together with others. But at the same time, I think that when this is raised as a big problem, we also have to try to approximate it without getting a single thing here in Stortinget. I believe that we must have humility and factuality in the approach to such serious matters. I have to say that it will then be both impeccable and unworthy when we attach ourselves to the majority, not only a twin, but also a doubletag, that this should have something to do with government establishment after the 2005 elections. It is completely behind objectives, which is not a particularly good parliamentary expression either.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-11-lower.ana.ud592e640	I'm still a little surprised by some of the vocabulary here today, especially, I'd say, from the Christian People's Party. What I said in my main post was that when I look back at the law that we passed in November, I see, which was the case rapporteur during the processing of that law, that it had already been appropriate at the time to adopt a structure that also went on with the mention. If there's something I'm going to take – I had almost said – self-criticism for, it must be that we didn't take that initiative that time, but that we rested too much on the product presented by the Government. But I have to say that the drama that someone adds up to here, I can't see that that's the basis for. Someone has asked: does this mean that SV now wants a type of slope plan? Of course, we do not want to do that. We want to have a law that provides leadership for ethical assessments, and that can stand over time. But precisely in order for this law to have any possibility of staying over time, we need assistance from a professionally wide-ranging group that can make those assessments. We've already had that. A name has previously been appointed in relation to applications abroad. I think that if we're going to meet new challenges that we're facing, we have to accept that different parties can have different angles of incidence. SV has been guided by var-respects of warnings against transplantation of animal organs to humans. It's not a religious belief that has made us end up at that point of view, but the risk of infection can be imagined in relation to various viral diseases, in relation to Creutzfeldt-Jacob's disease, in relation to foot-and-mouth disease, in relation to different conditions. If you do not take these kinds of warnings from the professional community seriously, you get infections that put the population at high risk. That's why SV on a case-by-case basis lands on points of view other than for example. The party of progress. But seeing that one day we are facing the situation that it can be said with a fairly high degree of certainty that this is no longer dangerous, that it is proper with that type of transplant. It may well be that the Christian People's Party is then indignant on the basis of a Christian basic view or other grounds because SV means something else. But we'll be busy dealing with these issues in a serious way and landing on the stand after we've given ourselves time to think about. I have to say it makes a big point that we have been subjected to pressure. There can't possibly be any secret. You have to keep a low profile in this society if you're not going to register that we're under pressure. But I am pleased and proud to note that even under the enormous pressure we spent three weeks passing through a model that stands out so well that a majority, including the government parties, now join it. The rather tedious fact that biotechnology is not going to look at it should also be put in place, because government parties have otherwise gone so that biotechnology subjects are traditionally to look at all such matters.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-11-lower.ana.ud592e655	For the sake of clarity only: there must be a great misunderstanding by the representative of Bello when he says that the government parties join, with the exception of the formulation on the subject of biotechnology. We're going to connect to one point. It is that the appeal is to go to the court and not to the department. Otherwise we will vote against everything. It is quite right that this is a debate to include both humility and cause, but the representative Ballo must also be able to recall four months in time, on his own emphasis on the fundamental principles of this matter. So even if you're going to be met with humility and honesty, you also have to accept that this is actually a debate about the basic values. It's quite right, as the representative Halvorsen says, that it's also about saving a child's life on the one hand and burdening another on the other, but it's just a small part of the debate. The big question is about human vision itself, whether one is willing in law to establish an acceptance to create one for the purpose of helping another, if one in law accepts a principle that requires Deborah Kent to defend his life as fully, because society and her closest one will ask the question: why not use this method to avoid having a child like yourself? This debate has been totally absent from SV today, but it was very central four months ago. It is amazing that something that was so important four months ago, today does not get the agreement from SV, and that they are not split in the matter either. At least you could think that maybe some of the representatives had been on the point of view you had a short time ago.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-11-lower.ana.ud592e669	It is my clear belief that, in political debate, we should not question the motives of others. I haven't heard anyone do it today. When some speakers have shown that SV has given in to the press, it is on the basis of statements by the representative Ballo himself, expressed in the class struggle on 2 April of this year, where he says: ‘It is true that the proposal for a medical selection, which is to deal with issues such as Mehmets, came because we would avoid the pressure’. I have not heard that the representative Ballo has corrected that statement, and then he must find himself faced with it, even here in the main hall. Then the representative Kristin Halvorsen insisted that we all, faced with a child, will do what we can to save its life, and she was in a state of emergency. I think we'll all agree on that and sign it. But if there is something that has emerged from this debate, and has been clarified by this debate on this specific matter, it is that we are not faced with an emergency situation, but that we are facing a completely different time perspective in relation to the development of the disease than was given the impression of the first days of this debate. But I agree with the representative of Halvorsen in one thing: there has to be a balance in a concrete situation between the consideration of the patient you want to help and other factors in relation to it. In this particular case, the life situation of Mehmet must be weighed against the chances of success or failure with what you want to open up. What are the chances of success or failure in this situation? I think it's obvious from the documentation put on the committee's table that the chances of failure are considerably greater than the chances of success. Probably the chances of success are relatively minimal. Then you also have to weigh this against the situation of the new sibling and what situation you put the child in, and what you expose the child to when it's an experimental treatment. I don't think it's difficult to make that balance, given the facts that have come to the table. But what is crucial is that this issue has been dealt with by the Social Committee as late as November. It is not that you first got a concrete example of this with the Mehmet case. The concrete example of Adam Nash was mentioned in the consultation opinion on the subject of biotechnology and is referred to in the Odelstingsproposition. The committee has discussed this.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-11-lower.ana.ud592e685	It's not interesting for the Storting to discuss the motives people have for taking the positions they're taking. I fully agree that this debate is a siding. But what's interesting is to discuss the consequences of what you do. There I agree with John I. Alvheim: It is the consequence of this – in reality. Kristin Halvorsen said that the problem of pressure against the Storting is not that it occurs. I'm 100 pst. Agreed. Of course, this is the case in a democracy, and with the technology we have today, the volume of that pressure is going to increase, of course. I'm also 100 pst. agree with Kristin Halvorsen that the problem in this case is that the pressure was based on a basic false reality, which was attempted to instill opinion – with great success. What is the basic weakness of the Storting’s making of legislation on such a basis is that that legislation is a response to a fundamental false reality, and then the law cannot be good or thought through. I have allowed myself to point out that some of the criteria that the majority has written into the vote will be extremely difficult for conscientious members of an entity to deal with in practice. There is no happy situation when the Storting solves its legislative task in such a way that a majority of people are created in the main hall who have a very different view of what the legal text they vote for says. It's not a way to solve the legislative task that is commendable, to say it carefully, because the Storting actually creates a law that you know is fundamentally unclear, and then you push the problem over to those who are going to administer the law afterwards. The probability is that if the name you are referring to becomes a truly independent name – really independent, as you say you will – which should be assessed solely on an ethical and professional medical basis, it is likely that the issue that has started the whole debate will end up with a no, as it has done in other countries. It has nothing to do with citizenship, but on the basis of an entirely independent professional and ethical assessment. Then you've kind of led the opinion twice behind the light, because you've made the impression that now the Storting has solved the problem, and then it turns out that it has the Storting not at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-11-lower.ana.ud592e696	I haven't heard anyone say or do it, but I still want to say from my side and from the Christian People's Party that, of course, we didn't draw the Christian integrity of Jon I. Alvheim into doubt. We have a great deal of respect for that. But we argue against the view that Alvheim's representative argues for here, quoting both Western philosophy, represented by Immanuel Kant, and what is the classical Christian view, that one should not use a human life just as a means of helping another. So I accept that one can mean that there's not a do here. But based on the text we think there's a danger of opening for that very thing. I'd like to quote medical director Hans Kristian Bakke. He says: ‘At least two doors open if a decision is taken on a name in one form or another. Behind both doors there are questions and new considerations that we do not overlook today.’ ‘The first door is about one life to come to help another. I see a number of questions politicians have to think through before they open up so that one life is there to help another.’ ‘What diseases are serious enough to use the technology for this purpose?’ I will also take another quote: «... the other door is about choosing away fertilizing eggs that have disease. In Mehmet-saka it's all about talk, in other things it can be completely different diseases» – says the doctor's president. I also quote Bishop Gunnar Stålsett in a chronicle in Dagbladet on March 21, 2004: ‘Justifiably, it has been established by law that it is ethically irresponsible to use a foetus and the future child as a means of achieving a different objective from that of the child in itself.’ And another quote from Bishop Steelset. ‘In balancing conflicting ethical well-founded choices, the Storting has drawn a margin line.’ Then he talked about the laws as she was originally signed. I have to say that it is rarely I with such great reason join Bishop Steelset. The representative Ballo was so much involved, and we haven't had time to talk about it today, but there's a look-up in the Evening Post today that highlights what we also need to be busy about in addition to what we've been talking about here today. I quote Anne Kristine Hauberud, the mother of a disabled child. She says this: ‘Functional children are most politically interesting in foetal life.’ Facilitating a holistic offer for those who ask for the child is a common task here in the hall. We really need to take it seriously. Elles, I have to say it too: I am glad that both the SV and the Center have confirmed that they are in their health for the rest of the laws.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-11-lower.ana.ud592e736	The representative, Bjarne Håkon Hanssen, has had the word twice and has a speaking time limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-11-lower.ana.ud592e739	What made me take the floor, was that the last councillor had the word, he was very busy stressing that the chance of succeeding in the current treatment of Mehmet is minimal. It seems that it is used as an argument that this means that today’s legal wording can be kept safe. The point here is that it's not the weaknesses of technology that make the Council of State have the position he has. What is the point from the point of view of the Christian People's Party, although this would have been a perfectly normal, generally available form of treatment without any experimental character, is that the Council of State would nevertheless have opposed it on a purely ethical basis. To argue for the position that the technology is not yet developed, I therefore think it has very little to do with the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-11-lower.ana.ud592e746	I have some comments about what it is like to be under pressure. There is no doubt that our big business group, and many other big business groups, have been under considerable pressure in this matter. But it's not that we've given in such a way that we go in for something we're really opposed to. We took time. We have the Stortingets through the ages of the youngest big group. Many members of our group have been called up to several times a day for a period of three weeks, and they have not been covered for that reason. On the contrary, we were waiting for the professional assessment that the Health Directorate was going to make, so that we all had cards on the table and knew what to stick to. Then we agreed to a system that allows individual shippers to be assessed by a denominator, and that the law itself will not prevent it. That's what we're doing today. This is actually quite important, because the Storting is well in the process of reaching its incompetence level as we begin to approach diagnosis in individual matters. At least I am, although I have tried as best I could in this case. We know that in two weeks, three weeks it could be a completely different destiny. There will be many fates that have the right to be evaluated in the same way. Therefore, it is wise that someone who possesses both medical and ethical competence should be able to enter into the balances to be made. Actually, I think we should have a reward for that, because I think it's with a completely different dignity you can deal with this kind of thing for later. Then I want to end by saying that I am strongly responding to the speakers who repeatedly, over and over again, say that what the Storting is doing today is looking at one person just as a means of another. That's not what it opens for. It is not that today we make an exception that makes some individuals in Norway to be born just as a means to someone else. The whole dilemma is that here, a person who can very well be wanted, loved and live a great life himself, can also contribute to another person's life. But I want to warn you very strongly against using those kinds of terms, because it goes far beyond what you're opening up to today, and it goes far beyond what in any society with some ethical standard would be sound.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-11-lower.ana.ud592e763	The representative, Bjarne Håkon Hanssen, is quite right in saying that the government parties, like a number of the agencies in society that I referred to in my main post, are opposed to this amendment of the law. But we take seriously that there is a majority who want to change the law, so that the specific individual matter that has been debated will get a solution. I'm here with the sum of everything that's been written about the Mehmet case in Norwegian media in the last few months. The repeated message from representatives of those who are now the majority in this Chamber is that they will help Mehmet. Then you have to bear to be confronted with the question: Do you now want to add up, do you have such help? So the majority in the setting actually said that it's not safe at all. Then I believe that the different reasons here, to help Mehmet and to open up changes and not only to a denominator, as the representative Halvorsen says, but also to the criteria of the denominator, which is fundamentally different from what the majority stood for in November, must also be weighed against the probability of success in the treatment that you want to open up. I have the impression that the majority has done little. Otherwise, let me say that I agree with the representative, Halvorsen, that you have to avoid formulations towards creating people who are just a means. But I'll leave the following questions hanging: how, with the legislation and the opening that you're doing here, do you prevent it from actually being the truth in some cases?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-11-lower.ana.ud592e773	Olav Gunnar Ballo has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-11-lower.ana.ud592e776	It is consistently the case in the Biotechnology Act that the subject of biotechnology will be presented with all the issues on which they wish to comment. If they so wish, they may express themselves. In order to clarify that what is otherwise in the law is also to be valid here, we have proposed in the legal text: ‘Before deciding whether to grant an authorisation, the application shall be submitted to the Biotechnology Name.’ It can be understood that even if this is not part of the legal text, it is natural that the subject of biotechnology, in relation to the issues relating to individual matters relating to biotechnology, may be able to travel, as naturally as regards treatment, as otherwise. This does not mean that you need to provide the content of the case or information related to confidentiality. Unless you want to break the principle that the majority has stood by, you have to have the right to speak in these kinds of cases. I assume that the Council of State must be able to clarify that that will be the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-11-lower.ana.ud592e786	The version we now have of the Biotechnology Act is quite new. It's a very strict law, and I don't think anyone in this room can actually say that there's not going to be any changes in this law in the long term. The representative Lilletun asked the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party if it was now really such that they were at least behind the other lying there. I find it strange that the Central Party and SV go to this pulpit and almost guarantee it. I think it's quite obvious that there will be new things, and there will be new recordings, which will require us to review some of the things that are there. It is a strict law, and it is a difficult law for all parties. I also believe that the Christian People's Party will meet itself at the door in some things ahead. To stand so hard on his points of view and say that this is absolute, I think one will have problems with the future. The biggest problem, as the case exists today, is the lack of opportunity to appeal. Having to use legal proceedings as an appeal body will actually, for financial reasons, put a stop to a number of people seeking their actions. There are different economic situations that mean that not everyone will be able to run a case to the top in a court of law. If, among other things, the law: had opened in order to appeal to the ministry, everyone would at least be able to try their case for two instances. That is the problem with the matter as it exists here today. There is also the problem of not everyone being able to have the same opportunity. In fact, the financial constraints could put an end to some people running a case before a court. I think that you should take inwards in this matter. Finally, I'm a little confused that you're always pointing out that the person who might be born becomes a tool for the future. I almost hope that this child, once born, won't have to sit down and read from the treatment in and the minutes from this room today, because here, in fact, some representatives have the closest characterization of this person as a tool and not as a human being.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-11-lower.ana.ud592e797	No wages and salaries have the word twice before and word is given a short comment. It is limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-11-lower.ana.ud592e800	I would like to have said that I have great respect for the fact that SV has not taken this matter lightly. What I find difficult to understand is the relationship between SV's premisses and SV's conclusion. I have noticed that in his long and interesting main post, the representative Ballo had very interesting views, but they belong in a completely different debate. They were not concerned with this amendment of the law. They concerned medical priorities and resource use. It's a very interesting debate, but it actually has nothing to do with this bill to order at all. The basic problem is that if this bill is intended to open up to the treatment theoretically possible in the Mehmet case, it has opened up a link between two elements, each of which is deeply problematic, and which together are quadruplely problematic. [[The President clubs.]] First you have to sort out what's sick, then you have to sort out everything that's fresh, but that doesn't have 100 pst. [[The President clubs.]] tissue compatibility,...
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-11-lower.ana.ud592e807	Time's up.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-11-lower.ana.ud592e810	I think this is a difficult debate, not least when you draw close to each other on the ethical reasons and moral choices that are being made, because it becomes very fast as it is already expressed, that you question each other's ethical motives, and I don't think that is necessary. We don't have to do that. But we have to look at the consequences of the ethical choices we make. As has been said before, it's about consistency. Because they have a consequence, the choices we make in this case. I'm not a specialist on the topic we're dealing with now, but as far as I understand it, it's like we have to make a selection of an egg and then check it out after it's fertilized. Then we have to do a new check after there's been a few cell divisions, and if there's tissue compatibility, we can use it, and if that's not, we can't use it. So we have to find another one. I can only understand that we have then sorted, that we have made choices and said that this was not useful. Then you might come up with what you want to live on and become a child, because this has the qualities that we need to help another person. I can't understand how to say that it's not an important factor in why this particular human being was chosen. To me, it's an ethical choice that you make, which I disagree with. But when that's said, because it seems to be a majority that will go for such a solution, I would also say that I believe that Harald T. Nesvik, along with all the others who go for this system, has the greatest responsibility, the primary responsibility, to make sure that this child never gets confronted with: you were born because we needed you. I almost dare not think that it would prove that the use of the tissue from this person did not give the result that Stortinget is looking for today. At least you don't have to come up with any kind of insinuations that go on: we chose you, but we were wrong. The responsibility lies with those who want to introduce such a law. It's a huge responsibility, and for me this is an ethical choice.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-11-lower.ana.ud592e815	Kristin Halvorsen has had the word twice before and gets the word to a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-11-lower.ana.ud592e818	I'm not going to replicate to the previous speaker, but just say that these are the difficult ethical balances. We've got a lot to do with just this, but it's not that our conclusion is that you pick a human being just because it has to be a means for someone else. I would like to make a proposal. Our proposal for the new fourth paragraph of Section 2-14 reads as follows: ‘Before deciding whether to grant an authorisation, the application shall be submitted to the Biotechnology Name.’ I propose that this should be deleted and not promoted as a proposal. I guess that also means that the fifth term is going to be a new fourth term.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-11-lower.ana.ud592e829	I believe that this proposal is being withdrawn because one does not want to have it down. It was wanted to be recorded, but it is nevertheless worth saying from this pulpit that a majority in Odelstinget has expressed that one is against that proposal and that that proposal does not therefore have a majority in Odelstinget either.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-11-lower.ana.ud592e834	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-11-lower.ana.ud592e842	The odelsting shall vote in case No. 1 and 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-11-lower.ana.ud592e897	It's going to go above the title of the law and promise at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-11-lower.ana.ud592e907	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-11-lower.ana.ud592e914	Four proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Bjarne Håkon Hanssen on behalf of the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, proposal No. 2, from Bent Höie on behalf of the Right and Christian People's Party proposed no. 3 and 4, from John I. Alvheim on behalf of the Progress Party, Proposal No. 4, from the Progress Party, reads: «By the end of 2004, the Government asks the Grand Duchy to bring an appropriate case to the Grand Duchy for the appointment of a special title for the examination of applications for a derogation from the Biotechnology Act relating to § 2 14 and proposals for regulations.» This proposal will be sent to Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure. Olav Gunnar Ballo – for explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-11-lower.ana.ud592e936	I would recommend that the SV vote in favour of proposal No. 2nd@item: inlistbox Kristin Halvorsen has previously stated that we propose that the fourth paragraph of Section 2-14 be deleted and not promoted as a proposal, but then we rely on it to be supported by the Workers' Party and the Centre, since they are co-sponsors.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-11-lower.ana.ud592e941	The vote will be taken at the next voting time on proposal No. 2, from the Right and Christian People's Party, then over suggestion No. 3, by the Progress Party and finally by proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party. Proposal No. 2, from the Right Party and the Christian People's Party, says: ‘Document No. 8:41 [[Biotechnology Act]] According to what the President now understands, the proposal is supported by the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-11-lower.ana.ud592e960	There will be so much talk about proposal No. 3, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Law No. 5 December 2003 100 on the human medical use of biotechnology, etc. is amended as follows:§ 2-14 is replaced by the following:Genetic examination of fertilised eggsGenetic examination of a fertilised egg [[Biotechnology Act]] [[preimplantation diagnostics]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-11-lower.ana.ud592e989	Proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party say: ‘Law No. 5 December 2003 100 on the human medical use of biotechnology, etc. The following shall be amended as follows:Section 2-4 new second paragraph shall be replaced by the following:Where, as referred to in the first paragraph, in situations referred to in Section 2-14, paragraphs 2-14 new second, third and fourth subparagraphs shall be replaced by the following:If specific considerations so require, a derogation note as referred to in the third subparagraph may authorise genetic testing of fertilised eggs. [[Biotechnology Act]] Such authorisation may be granted in the event of a serious hereditary disease without treatment options. Fertilised eggs selected must not be genetically modified.The dispensation title is appointed by the Department. The Ministry appoints members and personal alternates for two years at a time. No appeal may be brought against the decision of the Judge. The Ministry may provide detailed rules on the organisation and procedure of the name. Before deciding whether to grant an authorisation, the application shall be submitted to the subject of biotechnology.The present second subparagraph shall become the fifth paragraph and shall read as follows:Before pre-implantation diagnosis is carried out, the woman or the couple shall be provided with genetic guidance and information.IIThe law shall apply from the time the King decides.» It will first be votered over I, Section 2-4 new second paragraph. The Progress Party has warned that they support the proposal, and the President has understood it so that the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left too will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-11-lower.ana.ud592e1029	In the case of § 2-14 new second, third and fourth paragraphs, the Progress Party has notified that they support the proposal of the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre Party subsidiaryly, with the exception of the third sentence of the third paragraph and the fourth paragraph of the new paragraph. The new second paragraph and the new third paragraph, first, second and fourth sentences – which the Progress Party supports in a subsidiary way, are therefore first voted on.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-11-lower.ana.ud592e1043	So we're going to have to go over the third sentence of Section 2-14 of the new third paragraph. This is where the Progress Party is going against. Right, Christian People's Party and Left have warned that they support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-11-lower.ana.ud592e1055	We then came to Section 2-14 new fourth paragraph, which is drawn. Because the new fourth term is subtracted, there's going to be a correction that follows: the current second term is not going to be the fifth term, but the fourth term is going to be the fourth term. The Progress Party has warned that they support the proposal subsidiaryly. Right, Christian People's Party and Left are opposed.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-11-lower.ana.ud592e1071	Finally, the proposal by the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party will vote for II. The party of progress has notified that they will oppose it. Right, Christian People's Party and Left support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-11-lower.ana.ud592e1085	It's going to go above the title of the law and promise at all. The President expects the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left to oppose it. - It'll be nod.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-11-lower.ana.ud592e1099	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-11-lower.ana.ud592e1107	The recommendation of the Committee shall be sent to the Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
