ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-02.ana.ud1842e51	The representative of Ingvild Vaggen Malvik will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-02.ana.ud1842e54	On behalf of the representatives of Inger S. Enger, Hallgeir H. Langeland and myself, I would like to make proposals to improve security of supply through more socio-economic optimum dry-year insurance by changing the structure of the consumer market for electricity and the disposal of multi-yearly magazines.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-02.ana.ud1842e59	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on the current map are dealt with, the President will propose that the morning meeting – if necessary – continue beyond the scheduled time of 9 p.m. 15 until today's map has been processed. No objection has been raised against the President’s proposal – and it is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-02.ana.ud1842e77	The purpose of this study, carried out by the National Audit Office, is to assess the extent to which Kripos acts as an assistance body for the police and civil service. This is an important study, because Kripos’ primary task is to assist individual police districts in tasks they themselves do not have the capacity or competence to perform. This will in many respects be the major and serious criminal cases, which it is very important to investigate and deal with as best as possible, so that matters are quickly and effectively resolved and the culprits are held accountable for their actions. In this way, Kripos is one of the police's most important tools to combat crime of a different nature. An overall committee would therefore stress the importance of prioritising the issues raised by the Riksrevision in this report, in order to maximise the functioning of Kripos in relation to the various police districts. As the committee sees it, the most serious issue is the Riksrevision takes up, the fact that Kripos has used a different procedural tool than the police and officers' seat otherwise used. This has meant that it is very difficult — in some cases not possible — to compare data from Kripos with data from the police and civil servant seats. This has turned out to be multiple rashes. Among other things, a discrepancy can be seen in relation to the achievement of the target in drugs cases in 2001, where Kripos reported a target achievement of 98 p.p., while the Riksrevision study shows that the real target achievement was only 22 p.p. As the committee sees it, this is a serious matter. It is also particularly serious when, in commenting on this specific situation, the Department reports that the Directorate of Police has not been aware of the way in which Kripos calculates the duration of proceedings. The Committee is of the opinion that it is surprising and worrying that the department and the directorate are not aware of such a situation, as it may in some cases have given the impression that the situation has been better than it has actually been. The Committee therefore welcomes the fact that this situation is taken seriously and that it is assumed that it will be addressed. With regard to governance and reporting procedures in general, the Committee of the Regions feels that it is essential that they are good, in order to ensure the best use of resources. The report shows that this is a significant potential for improvement, which should be given priority in the Committee's view. This report also shows that Kripos provides more assistance in its neighbourhood than in other areas. The Committee is of the opinion that it is important that all police districts of the country can avail themselves of the competences and capabilities of Kripos, and therefore agrees with the National Audit Office’s assessment, that registration of assistance allocated to police districts could lead to increased awareness of the allocation of resources, so that all units receive the assistance they need. The Committee is also committed to the role of Kripos as a contributor to international cooperation in the fight against organised crime. It is important that Kripos be aware of its responsibilities in such contexts and actively use the opportunities provided by the Schengen Information System. At the same time, of course, privacy must be safeguarded by registration in such registers. In the case of Kripos as a transfer of competence to other units within the Police and National Police Departments, the Committee would stress the importance of this. It is obvious that when Kripos provides local assistance, it is important to be as conscious as possible of the fact that the police stations and the officers' offices they assist can be provided with important competences that can be useful in future cases. In conclusion, I would like to point out that the Committee is also very pleased that all actors interviewed in the study are largely very satisfied with the quality of Kripos’ treatment, although some entities are of the opinion that they could carry out the tasks themselves with satisfactory results. As I see it, this suggests that Kripos' skills are high, and you should be satisfied with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-02.ana.ud1842e98	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Fooding, see page 2456]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-02.ana.ud1842e114	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fooding, see page 2456]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-02.ana.ud1842e130	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 10 minutes to the Right, 10 minutes to the Advance Party, 5 minutes to each of the other groups and 5 minutes to the Representative Jan Simonsen. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers from each group and up to five lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted. The rapporteur, Arne Sortevik, has been appointed, and Ursula Evje is the deputy rapporteur on the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-02.ana.ud1842e141	The representative Arne Sortevik, who is the case rapporteur for the renewal of the Loan Fund, unfortunately has a disease in his immediate family and is therefore prevented from being here today. On his behalf, I thank the Committee for its good and constructive work on this matter. First, I would like to explain the Committee's views and then the Committee's own views. There is broad consensus in the Committee on the need to modernise the Loan Fund in order to maximise the number of users and the service they require. However, there is a disparate view of the instruments that should be used to achieve this objective, and there is also some disagreement about the extent of intervention in relation to today’s organisation. Three models are provided in the message. These are the ‘Sørge-for-Lånekasse’, where the management is largely entrusted to the ordinary banking system, the ‘Total Loan Fund’, where the modernisation is carried out through a new ICT system, changed work processes and reorganisation, and the third option is the ‘Core Loan Fund’, where support functions and some user-oriented functions are left to other actors, state or private. It is an overall view that the «Core Loan Fund» – which is also the department’s choice – is preferred. This model shall be terminated by all the hearing bodies. The students who end up using this model. The Progress Party primarily wants a different model, but subsidiaryly joins the proposal based on the Core Loan Box model, as this model appears to be an improvement in relation to today’s system and in relation to the ‘Total Loan Box’. There is full support in the Committee on the boundaries chosen by the Ministry for Notification. There is also widespread dissension about continuing the form of connectivity, governance, complaints and localisation. In terms of division of tasks, there are differences in political view. An overall committee is in favour of enhanced cooperation between the Loan Fund and the Central Bank of the State, while the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party clearly express reservations regarding the transfer of tasks from the Loan Fund to the Central Bank of the State. This applies to tasks that are perceived as core tasks for the Loan Fund. The reason seems to be that the central government collection centre is another state body with a different regulatory framework. A comprehensive committee stresses in various ways that modernisation work should not lead to the loss of rights and social arrangements contained in the current Education Aid Act and its related regulations. Similarly, the Committee points out that the rules governing the activities of the Loan Fund are significant and that there is a need for regulatory simplification in order to ensure faster and cheaper processing and more automation. Greater automation means less manual processing and is therefore resource-saving. There is full agreement in the Committee that the Loan Fund must have an ICT system that ensures such modernisation. The total investment will amount to approx. 250 million. financed by own resources from several State budgets, own-funding from the Loan Fund's own budget and efficiency improvements to be made through the modernisation process. In a slightly different way, the members of the Committee indicate that the calculation needs to be clarified by better specification and that the project needs to be managed rigorously in order to avoid exceedances. The Committee has taken note of the media’s information that ICT projects in the public sector are very often cost significant and are often significantly delayed in relation to the original timetable. The Progress Party has long been committed to modernising and reorganising the Loan Fund, based, inter alia, on: three conditions: 1st@item: inlistbox User needs for service and availability.2. Government strategy for modernisation, efficiency and simplification in the public sector. Among other things, reference is made to the presentation by the State Council of 24 January 2002, from then Norman under the title ‘From Word to Action’.3. There are two investigations behind the notification: the suspension of the Solberg Committee, issued on 18 December 2001, and the report of the project group set up by the Ministry of Education and Research, issued in June 2003 on Modernisation Strategies for the Management of Study Support. In terms of content and publicity, this – a matter of politically exciting modernisation ideas in line with one’s own strategy – is not very close to what could have been expected. For this reason, the Progress Party is promoting a proposal for an alternative instrument in the modernisation process more in line with the modernisation programme, which is a programme with a good foundation in the Progress Party. It's sloppy, we don't think we can get the best solution right away, but that we're once again on a "way becomes as we go" solution. The Progress Party will therefore support the second best solution subsidiaryly. The Progress Party also has its primary view of connectivity. We want to transform into a management company, as a minority of hearing bodies do. The Progress Party wishes to see the system of its own Board wound up, and refers to opinions that have come to the effect that the Board of Directors does not have tasks and also does not act as a responsible Board of Directors. The Progress Party wishes to see the Regional Offices closed in line with the findings of the investigation that a solution with such offices does not provide an effective solution for the Loan Fund. In line with this, the Progress Party also considers that other key figures related to the activities of the Loan Fund indicate that efficiency can be significantly improved. The Progress Party wants better user information, well in line with the Government's modernisation strategy, but unfortunately it is all alone in this view. Neither the message nor previous investigations provide information on user vision. Finally, the Progress Party is pleased to see the start of a modernisation. Much of the modernisation is linked to the renewal of the ICT system. It is important that such a comprehensive project is well managed financially, and that a new solution does not become so special and with so much systemically ‘step-by-step’ that the system is soon to expire on date and again needs to be replaced. I would like to take up with this the proposal that the Progress Party is promoting in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-02.ana.ud1842e193	The representative of Ursula Evje has taken up the suggestions she referred to. No one has asked for the word in reply.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-02.ana.ud1842e198	It is essentially an overall position we have ahead of us today, with the exception of the Advance Party, i.e. I am really very uncertain about where the Progress Party is, because they are almost everywhere in the setting. However, on one day as this one, I will bring some verbal purses to the government parties, who have helped tighten up and provide clearer premises and guidelines for the further modernisation work of the Loan Fund, and ensure that the Storting can also enter where necessary. After all, there are hundreds of thousands of borrowers and hundreds of employees. Safety of driving rules in further work is important. I am pleased that the entire committee underlines the importance of the State's loan fund in our educational community. It shall continue to be a State responsibility, as a government administrative body under the Ministry of Education. There is a need to modernise and improve the services of users. First of all, it materialises through the introduction of a new ICT system. There is significant uncertainty in the estimates of costs contained in this Communication. We hope that it can be clarified until the 2005 draft budget, and we also stress that there is a particular look at this with conversion costs and any funding for it. We have also stressed that a safe re-use of what has already been invested by significant funds over the last years of the Loan Fund Information System and that the changes do not go beyond daily operations. In relation to the possible purchase or outsourcing of the operation, maintenance and development of the ICT system, we are particularly concerned that a secure Loan Fund plays a central role in further development. When it comes to discussing models, we might think it's going to be a little bit theoretical all the time the loan box today also uses more than 25 pst. of their means of operation for the purchase of services from external actors. Nor, in the case of the Core Loan Fund, is the Government's proposal in the Communication rigorously in the sense that, for example: suggests that regulatory management should also switch to other agencies. Of course, it is important that one focuses on the primary tasks of the Loan Fund, which are procedural, financial management and regulatory management. However, it is important to stress, as the Committee as a whole points out, that it must be demonstrated that the further purchase or outsourcing of services will not only provide equivalent but better services to users, and that it will be as efficient as possible for the activities as a whole. The working party together with the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party separates some layers on are a couple of points. One concerns the first line service, where we want development and improvement to take place within the task-solving of the Loan Fund today. We think it seems a bit artificial to have to separate the first-line and second-line services, because the transition from information and simple advice to any more detailed advice on the regulation should be able to improve with the competence of the loan fund today. There is a cooperation today between the Loan Fund and the Central Bank of the State, and it wants to develop further. Our opinion is that the «Core Loan Fund» or the primary tasks should continue to be concentrated in the Loan Fund, even if cooperation is extended. In any case, there are clear leads here compared to that of documenting improvements where a desired change. The capital will have submitted the question of further development in relation to the central government collection centre. If there are to be changes in the content of social schemes and in the rights under the Education Aid Act today, we will have to present the Stortinget, and even if new job solutions mean further downsizing in addition to the downsizing that is taking place in relation to the introduction of a new ICT system. With regard to the whole process of conversion, it is my advice to the Council of State that one here ensures necessary, good and close cooperation with the employees and employees' organisations in the ongoing work, and not only with regard to the formal rights attached to the law. I think it's a lot of resources to make improvements by creating security and predictability. I conclude with the main objective: we want to help us provide better services for the users from the Loan Fund.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-02.ana.ud1842e219	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-02.ana.ud1842e222	Sometimes it may be difficult to fully grasp what the Workers' Party wants in its education policy, even in this case with the Loan Fund. On the one hand, it is noted that the government is adding up to a choice of the ‘core loan box’ as a model. But is that what the Labour Party wants? Are you really going to end up with this election, or are you just saying that that's what's going to be the future model? On the other hand, there is this dissensus on which the Workers' Party is involved, together with the Socialist Left Party, in the case of comments on the first line service. If the interests and needs of users are better served by the provision of information and the provision of first-line services, is it not better to be involved in such a solution than to doubt that the Loan Fund should do absolutely all the tasks of its own in the future, as one might get the impression after listening to the representative of the Workers' Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-02.ana.ud1842e229	Now I don't think one needs to add up to the required divisions that are not there, because in most of the contexts, the Labour Party and the government parties agree on the content of the setting that we have in front of us today. In the case of the Core Loan Fund, we have said that we are not so concerned with cleaning models. We have said that the most important thing for us is that the changes that are taking place can actually document improvements, can provide better services for users and can be the most effective for the business as a whole. We therefore take note of the fact that the Government has taken into account the Core Loan Fund. We have also taken that as a starting point, but we have reserved the right to review the individual changes. With regard to the first line service, it is our opinion that here it seems that the most important thing is simply to buy or to postpone some services that we believe today can be done best by the competence of the loan fund in both first and second line service.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-02.ana.ud1842e238	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-02.ana.ud1842e241	Equal rights to education are at the heart of Norwegian education policy. In this context, the State Lending Fund for Education has played an important and crucial role. Several actors contribute to the achievement of the objectives of the Loan Fund. Not least, it is the Storting itself, which adopts general framework conditions and guidelines specifically related to the financial scale and level of training aid. This also applies to the Ministry of Education and Research as the executive and governing body, the Loan Fund itself, with its organisation, its administration and its departments, and to all the universities, which contribute greatly to the practical implementation of the tasks, in particular related to information and practical assistance and guidance for students and students. Now the goal is to open a more user-oriented and efficient loan fund. The background is the technological development that makes renewal of the ICT systems of the Loan Fund urgent, but more importantly, the demands and expectations of users may be of increasing quality and service in relation to the service production of the Loan Fund. The future loan fund must take over the changes that occur in society. This applies both to the possibilities of increased service and efficiency resulting from technological developments and to the increased requirements and expectations of users of the Loan Fund as a service body and service provider. With this in mind, it is high time that the measures proposed in the Communication were focused and implemented. In the future loan fund, information and availability will be key instruments for meeting users’ needs and expectations. It now provides flexible solutions and systems in which customers, users, should be able to choose freely on the top shelf among the communication tools used in modern societies, letters, e-mails, SMS, telephones, faxes, or whatever else is on the market. Similarly, using new technology, the Loan Fund will add up to daily service for several functions. Several private banks have recently put in place electronic processing systems for curative and standardised services. This will now also be implemented in the Loan Fund, including the possibility of using electronic signatures and day-to-day access to own customer information. Such significant automation and simplification of several key functions in the Loan Fund will necessarily mean the release of resources that can be deployed for more stringent procedural procedures, while other efficiency gains can be taken into account for the benefit of users. Shorter processing time, shorter waiting time and faster payment are some of the benefits. In implementing the measures outlined in the Communication, it is also foreseen that the Loan Fund will concentrate more on core tasks, application procedures, regulatory and financial management. Other functions and support activities shall be capable of being entrusted to others, who have a better understanding of how to perform such tasks. The background to this is constantly the desire for quality and efficiency of services. Higher level of service and shorter processing time are the clues for the whole conversion. The Committee has carefully discussed the choice of the future model for the organisation and operation of the Loan Fund. The Communication outlines three different future models. From the Right, we support the choice of the so-called Core Loan Box. This shall be approved by the majority of the Committee. It's this model as per. currently has the greatest impact on the costs, benefits and risks to the individual user. Both quality and efficiency can be increased when the Loan Fund is given the opportunity to concentrate more on core tasks. The Core Loan Fund also provides the possibility to entrust the production of several support functions to external actors. This is unfavorable, provided better quality and more efficient service production. From the Right, we have also noticed that a stronger distinction between authoritative and user-oriented functions will be further assessed by the Government when it has gained some more experience with a new ICT system and with the modernisation of the Loan Fund for the rest of the business. The entire Committee agrees with the Government’s conclusion that today’s location will not change, but that further work will be carried out with a view to strengthening specialisation and division of tasks between the Regional Offices of the Bank of Loan. This can be an important organisational step to increase efficiency and service levels, while maintaining the regional function and location of the Loan Fund. Through the new and increased quality requirements that are the basis for the future management of study support, I think we will achieve a significant degree of improvement in the area of information, flexibility, efficiency and security for the individual user. The effectiveness of the Loan Fund is a necessary measure to achieve even better service and better user-correction of services for all users of the Loan Fund.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-02.ana.ud1842e264	The loan fund is one of the carriers of the welfare community. The establishment of the Loan Fund was necessary to achieve higher education for largely excluded sections of the population. Getting funding schemes for living in higher education was perhaps the most important educational policy instrument in the fight to democratise our education system. The Loan Fund has also been important to ensure access for young people, especially from outlying and economically poor environments, to upper secondary education and vocational training in the first place. Despite economic cohesion, compared with the situation at the time the Loan Fund was established, it is still necessary as a means of ensuring the recruitment of higher education from all social groups of the population. For SV, it is therefore an important political issue to call about the Loan Fund as its own government management activity. We are pleased that there is a broad political consensus to maintain the Loan Fund broadly as it is today. Compared to the signals that came from some of the government parties earlier, to leave large parts to private banks, the solution that is now being proposed is a good model. So the loan fund continues as a government agency. I see the debate on the «Total Loan Fund» and the «Core Loan Fund» as being of the most theoretical interest. Also today, the Loan Bank acquires services; 25 pst. the budget is used to purchase services from suppliers outside their own organisation. I understand that the Government believes that today's Loan Fund, if you want to place it within the relevant models, will be defined as the «Total Loan Fund», i.e. where a buyer buys 25 pst. by external services. What is important is that the Loan Fund should continue as an administrative body, where the main tasks – I am still saying – are to be rules management, financial management and application procedures. In one area, the government parties and the minority, consisting of the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party, have slightly different comments – I choose to use that wording, because I'm a little uncertain about whether there are big differences in reality. We say something about what must be part of the process chain if we are to ensure a consistent and probably effective procedure. We say something about the liability of the loan fund from the first enquiry. Similarly, we are trying to draw up the boundaries at the other end of the process chain, between what must be the responsibility of the Loan Fund and what must be with the Debt Collection Centre. But as I said, I feel reasonably confident that there isn't much of a difference between the government parties and the minority in reality. I am also pleased that there is a broad political consensus that we should maintain the location with a headquarters in Oslo and with district offices, and that the staff should be maintained around these district offices. It's an important and proper signal to give, which is a broad political consensus. What's new in this message, and there's also a broad consensus, is that we need to invest 250 million. kr in a new ICT system – that’s really what the message is when it comes to the piece. It is absolutely necessary to make the Loan Fund better and more efficient. New procedures, development of better online services, etc., require a new ICT system. Experience with this type of investment is not entirely positive for the state, and therefore two things are important: those who need to manage the system and know the needs need to have a central role in the development of the new ICT system. In other words, the Loan Fund itself must be at the heart of its work, and we must also have strong economic governance and effective control to ensure that the framework, set at 250 million. kr, must be complied with.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-02.ana.ud1842e284	Very well has already been said in the debate. The Christian People's Party is part of the Committee's majority, and we support the Government's proposal to modernise the Loan Fund. The Core Loan Fund is the option that well describes the task of the Loan Fund, which manages the rules for student support and as a service enterprise to the nearly 700000 users. Once the Christian People's Party has worked on this matter, the main concern has been to provide users with the best possible services and to maintain contact with users of the Loan Fund. We believe that user contact is important, because this gives users a knowledge of their needs, and because this contact gives the best opportunity for guidance to users. In our opinion, the projected modernisation ensures this in a good way. What amazes me in the setting is the Advance Party line. The lot is one-sidedly absorbed by efficiency. In its argument for the ‘Sustained Loan Fund’ and the banking option, the emphasis is only on efficiency. Here, the importance of user contact is forgotten in order to have a well-functioning regulation and good service. The Christian People's Party wants that user contact. For reasons of efficiency, the Progress Party also wants a debate on the branch offices around the country. The progress party will centralize. With modern technology, however, regional solutions are fully feasible. Here I think the old-fashioned social economy and business economy characterize the position of the Progress Party. The Christian People's Party wants to keep the branch offices in the regions. With the exception of the Progress Party, there is a broad political consensus on the Core Loan Fund as a strategy for modernisation. The loan fund has an important task in terms of giving equal rights to education for all. And if we are to be able to serve 700,000 customers, the loan fund must also be good on the ICT side. It is right to base contact and communication with customers and users on online solutions. It is therefore necessary to make new investments, and the Christian People's Party believes that we are now getting a good and controlled investment in a new ICT system. The Government Parties and the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre Party have come together. The small nuance in view here, is mostly due to a little different emphasis on the consideration of the users, and I will also venture that claim: the consideration of the employees. The Christian People's Party also suggests that employees should be treated in line with contract work and laws. At the same time, the bank's reason and task is to manage the rules for student support and provide services to users. This suggests that users’ considerations must be of the highest importance. Finally, the Christian People's Party believes that modernisation must not lead to the loss of rights and social arrangements for the students. Such changes are assumed to be submitted to the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-02.ana.ud1842e301	In the opinion of the Centre Party, the State Loan Fund for Education is one of the most important educational policy instruments we have. Reasonable loans in addition to grants are necessary to ensure that those qualified for higher education can choose higher education. A target for more people to choose higher education requires a good framework for students. The cancellation message we are dealing with today is about how the loan fund can serve well those who are applying for loans and scholarships, and those who are in the repayment phase. In fact, we are talking about long-term customer relationships in relation to the Loan Fund. It's about five to six years of study, and maybe 20 years of payback. Modernisation of the Loan Fund must aim at achieving major improvements in the areas of information and availability, efficiency and flexibility as well as security. The Loan Fund shall continue to be a body under the Ministry of Education and Research. The modernisation strategy does not imply changes in the content of the legislation and training aid remains a State responsibility. It is an objective that more people should choose higher education. This implies that several will also become users of the Loan Fund and that the demand for public education support will increase. It is important, therefore, that the loan fund be modernised, among other things. through a simpler regulatory framework. The Solberg Committee points out that the regulation on the activities of the Loan Fund has become so extensive that the need to find simplifications and improvements has become urgent. The centre party would stress the need for a simpler regulatory framework. At the same time, we would like to stress that such modernisation and simplification must not entail the loss of rights or social arrangements contained in current training aid and regulations. The substantive implications of rights and social arrangements require the submission of the entire Committee to the Stortinget. The Storting Message defines the core activities of the Loan Fund as regular management, application processing and financial management. In order to ensure good treatment for users, it is important, in the opinion of the Centre Party, that the Loan Fund is responsible for the entire process chain. In the view of the Centre Party, the first line service must be understood as part of the application procedure and legislative procedure. We therefore believe that strengthening the first-line service and counselling must take place within today’s responsibility for solving the problem. The Central Party supports the Ministry's plan for a new ICT system and the financial plan outlined in the notification, with 100 million. DKK over the annual budgets, 40 million. kr annually through efficiency improvement and 30 million. kr over the operating budget of the Bank of Loan. The centre party is also pleased that there is an agreement that no changes should be made to the regional offices. It's important to the students throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-02.ana.ud1842e318	First of all, I would like to thank the broad support committee for the main model and proposals made in the communication and for the profound comments made in this debate. The Loan Fund is one of our important social institutions, and it is – it is important to say – very good work in the Loan Fund today. However, after reviewing and improving in recent years many of the fund’s support schemes in the field of higher education, higher education — in and on an adult basis — it is now time, in a high time, to improve the education support management system itself. It is proposed to follow the principles outlined in the Communication. The reason why we now want and believe that it is necessary to modernise the Loan Fund is at least three-thirds. Firstly, the legitimacy of the public production of welfare goods depends entirely on the fulfilment of the expectations of users for quality and service by the State as a service provider. Secondly, it seems to me that, from time to time, activities that are neither funded by results nor exposed to competition should be reviewed to assess whether the societal tasks of the activities are well managed. Thirdly, the ICT system of the Loan Fund is out of date. The government wants to renew this system in order to reduce the risk of collapse, which will be extremely regrettable, because it includes a lot of customers. At the same time, the government wants to facilitate a modernisation that in turn facilitates higher quality in the future. We're ambitious in the quality objectives we've set for the new loan fund. Keywords include: that all applications can be submitted electronically, that the processing time should be substantially reduced, that communication with the Loan Fund should take place via an optional channel – whether by letter, Internet, e-mail, SMS or telephone – and that there should be increased possibilities for self-service, as customers are accustomed to in their regular online banks. The question that has been discussed is how to get it done. The Government has proposed the Core Loan Fund. The underlying reasoning is that the pure cultivation of the core tasks of an enterprise provides greater opportunities for the activities to specialise and enhance their own competences, which may provide efficiency gains and better services to users. Support functions shall, in accordance with this model, as a general rule be entrusted to external actors, as long as such outsourcing will result in these activities being carried out with an equivalent or higher quality and overall efficiency of the activity. The Core Loan Fund as a modernisation strategy could, in my view, provide the Loan Fund with important incentives for change and facilitate a clearer distinction between the two important roles of the Loan Fund, which are, on the one hand, directorate and, on the other hand, service enterprises. The Government will transfer tasks and annual work from the Loan Fund to the central government collection centre in Mo i Rana by the end of 2005, including: in the context of the reasoning that clean-up of core tasks gives greater scope for specialisation and efficiency – this is because we want to exploit synergies internally in the country, and because we want to take advantage of the special expertise available in the central government collection centre. The loan fund is proposed to continue as a directorate and management body of the Ministry of Education and Research. It is also proposed to continue the scheme with its own board of directors and complainants for the Loan Fund, and the equalisation of ANSA with the other student and student organisations in respect of representation in these forums. Annual reductions related to ICT renewal have been estimated at about 50 years of work. This will be carried out by natural take-off during the renewal period and will be realised in such a way that the net reduction is taken out at the headquarters of Oslo and not at the five district offices. This will result in further reductions in the number of annual works in the Loan Fund, but conversion and downsizing resulting from this modernisation process will, of course, be done according to the applicable statutory and contractual works. The government will spend about 250 million dollars. kr to renew the ICT systems in the Loan Box, inter alia. by granting an additional allocation of approximately 100 million. kr that will be proposed for the 2005-2007 budget. The government will return to the Storting with a final cost framework for modernisation work. Finally, the government wants to achieve higher quality through the modernisation strategy we have put forward. It will meet the expectations of a growing user group while ensuring more efficient use of national resources. In my view, it will also provide a timely and effective Loan Fund and thus help maintain the legitimacy of a publicly funded study funding system.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-02.ana.ud1842e348	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-02.ana.ud1842e351	I would recommend the Council of State to read the setting a little more closely than I realized she had done now. In relation to the further purchase or outsourcing of services not covered by the primary tasks, the majority of the Committee has said that better quality should be demonstrated — and overall more effective for the activities. Now the Council of State repeated what is stated in the notice that one should also do what was ‘equivalent’ to quality. Then there's no point in buying or putting out, except for ideology. I just stress that the committee has been clear on this point and has tightened something in relation to what was in the communication. This applies to the transfer of regulatory management to SI. Isn't it a little strange if one first believes that one of the primary tasks of the Loan Fund is regulatory management, that one then transfers it to other agencies, if any?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-02.ana.ud1842e358	The central government debt collection centre today requires defaulted student loans in two ways. They have a creditor function on behalf of the Loan Fund. If the default has been for less than three years, the case shall be transferred to SI, so that SI shall assist the Borrowing Fund with a periodic penalty payment. As the case is still owned by the Loan Fund, and the amount collected is to be transferred to the Loan Fund. The rules of the Loan Fund are in force and are due to rights under the Education Aid Act, even if the loan has been defaulted. But then there's another kind of thing. There are permanently transferred cases when the loan is strongly defaulted over three years. The claim is then transferred to the central government collection centre on a permanent basis and has been cancelled by the bank. In relation to SI's own cases, SI currently manages legislation concerning these customers. But I would like to make it clear that it is not necessarily worse for the customers, because then customers can be in a situation where it is a very beneficial thing to be connected to such a professional appliance, which also has contact with others who are in charge. We are currently working on finding an appropriate interface for task transfers from the Loan Class to SI, but at some point the SI legislation will also have to apply, rather than the original owner of the claim.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-02.ana.ud1842e367	A very short line. The obsolete ICT system mentioned by the State Council in its statement has cost 164 million. kr in the last few years. A new ICT system is estimated to cost approx. 250 million. kr – i.e. That in less than ten years we're using at the base of 500 million. kr for the maintenance, implementation and new development of systems. We have not been told what it will cost to keep this outdated system running as we develop and implement a new system. And I want to ask the government, do you have any numbers on this?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-02.ana.ud1842e376	I am most concerned that a decision has finally been made that this ICT system should be renewed. I actually sat in the board for a few years ago, and this problem has actually been too long. The most important thing is not what it costs now to drive this to daily. It's actually impressive what work the Loan Fund has done to keep this ICT system going. But there's a significant risk that it just breaks down. Then it can have very serious consequences for a large number of users. We're talking about a customer group of about 700,000. I do not exclude that if I had entered the offices earlier than I did, this work would also have been done earlier, because it is high time. We're basically hoping that the loan fund can be equally capable of keeping the old system running until replacement, because it's in itself demanding. It really deserves praise from the employees of the Loan Fund for their care.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-02.ana.ud1842e385	Several have not asked for the word for a line. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2457]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-02.ana.ud1842e394	Before we start on case no. 4, the President will draw attention to the fact that the matter being dealt with here has not been beyond the regulatory time, i.e. 48 hours. On the basis of Section 32 of the Rules of Procedure, the President will propose that the Stortinget should nevertheless deal with this matter now.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-02.ana.ud1842e398	The Committee had initially looked up the matter on 27 April, but after the President's summons, the matter was pushed forward in time and thus presented yesterday and will be dealt with urgently today. This is a matter of $66 billion, with a lot of different angles that should have been better elaborated, but that we don't now have time for. SV would therefore like this matter to be postponed until 27 April.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-02.ana.ud1842e405	The President will state his firmness at the decision taken in consultation with the majority of the Committee. We must therefore vote against the President's proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-02.ana.ud1842e411	So the size has come to issue no. 4 and the President has proposed, on the basis of Section 32 of the Rules of Procedure, that case no. 4 is treated even if it has not been out in the 48 hours of regulation. This proposal for a procedure was met by the representative of Hallgeir H. Langeland, who wanted the 48-hour period to be maintained and the case to be referred to a later meeting. So we're going to have to vote over the treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-02.ana.ud1842e453	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of response be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-02.ana.ud1842e462	It is a great pleasure for me to present to the Committee on Energy and the Environment its position on the development and operation of the Worm Lange. I would like to congratulate all those who, through targeted work, have laid the groundwork for the Storting to make today a decision that will enter as an important milestone in Norwegian oil and gas history. With investments totalling approximately SEK 66 billion in the gas field, the land plant and the pipeline Langeled, the Worm Lange field can be put into operation and the gas first ashore at Nyhamna in the municipality of Aukra in 2007. It is planned to do well for this project to provide approximately 60000 annual works during the construction period and 100 annual works during the operational phase. The Worm Lange is the second largest identified Norwegian gas field and the first deep water project on the Norwegian base. The project has been complicated by heavy installations to be placed on uneven seabeds of 800 to 1,100 metres depth. The development will help to further develop Norwegian competence and maintain the level of investment in Norwegian pedestal up to the start of production in 2007. Local and regional enterprises must be able to count on becoming important suppliers of the project. In the first round, 14 different options for the landing of the gas were assessed. The justice agencies in Worm Lange said that with Nyhamna as the best option on land based on a comprehensive assessment of economics, land use, the environment and security, fisheries considerations and societal impacts. This means that the alternatives to the Nyhamna landing site would either have a pure offshore solution or a zero solution. It is envisaged that the landing facility at Nyhamna will be used by several other fields in the future and the operation at the site can thus extend beyond the period of operation of the Worm Lange. The majority of the committee, all the non-participating members of the Socialist Left Party, have four important comments on the future use of gas in the municipality and in the region. 1st@item: inlistbox The builder shall bear the costs of facilitating the landing facility in order to deliver gas in the low-pressure pipe that is the responsibility of the local authority to install.2. It is stated that the builder will also take the costs of facilitating the delivery of high-pressure gas to the region from the land site.3. After the majority in the Committee's assessment, the project should also take the costs of completing the land system in order to be able to supply gas on a regional high-pressure network.4. The majority of the Committee expects that the gas prices of Nyhamna will be visible as transport costs are lower than those of distribution to the continent. Using natural resources for the creation of wealth has long traditions in Augera. For the emerging working people of the North-West, fishing and fishing have been an important resource and food supply. Following the decision in the United Kingdom today, the people of the North-West will be provided with new natural resources in the form of gas that can provide support and wake-up to new value creation. The rest of the qualifier station in Nyhamna is a cultural memory that tells of an important part of local and national history. The builder has taken advantage of a good environmental profile, and I am sure that developers will rehabilitate and take care of both important landscape elements such as the shores of Gildensensand and cultural memories linked to the qualications. The landing facility at Nyhamna will have five about 4,500 decks including the safe zone. It is easy to understand that it can be felt for those who have to leave the houses and their property because of the expansion. Despite the major interventions that need to be done in the small area, it is impressive that all the replacement issues are arranged through memorable agreements without the use of expropriation. The development of the gas field, land installation and pipelines and increased transport both during the construction and operation phases will impose high environmental and safety requirements. The developer has presented a clear environmental profile for the project, and I hope that this large project can be implemented for good and good without accident. As I take up the Committee's position, I would like to thank the members of the Committee for their constructive cooperation in order to complete the voting process within the limits of time.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-02.ana.ud1842e508	It is a major and important industrial policy issue we are dealing with here today. It is important for Norway as a gas nation. It's a new technological crime. It is also important for the supplier industry, which has been struggling with headwinds for a long time. In the last year, offshore industries have lost about 5,000 jobs. This is an industry where Norwegian suppliers are among the world’s leaders in some areas. We cannot allow this competence to be confused. On the contrary, we have to build on what we have and give it development opportunities. That is precisely why the Worm Lange is also an exciting and innovative project. Water depth and complexity make this a technological challenge. The builders say this is the deepest and most demanding extension on the Norwegian base. Longitude becomes the world's longest underwater pipeline. The solutions chosen provide for the development of new technologies that can benefit from future deployments. In 1966 – otherwise the year I was born – the first exploration well was drilled on Norwegian continental shelf. Very much has happened on the technological front since then. Not least for eco-innovation. The strong focus on the environmental impacts of Norwegian oil and gas production has undoubtedly contributed to the fact that we have a petroleum sector that is in the forefront in this area. Both the demands of the authorities and the efforts of industry themselves have played a crucial role here. We have to build on this. For the Workers' Party, it has always been important to ensure that the gas from the Worm Lange came to land. That is why we clarified our view of this matter a year and a half ago. The advantages of a land solution in relation to an offshore solution, including: in the case of health, environment and safety, is evident. However, it is also important that the landing of gas provides far greater opportunities for jobs and development of competences locally, not least in terms of using domestic gas. Local and regional enterprises, such as: Hustadmarmor, has signaled that they want to use the gas to further develop their business. Increased municipalities are already in the process of laying gas pipes. The working party welcomes the fact that licence holders have also been interested in facilitating the local use of the gas. We still thought it was necessary to go a little further than what was contained in the plans of the developers and in the proposals of the Government. We are therefore very pleased that there has now been such broad support for our proposal that the project also has to take the cost of completing the system inside the land plant in order to deliver gas onto a regional high-pressure network. This means a cost of 25 million. kr, and may appear to be a trifle in an expansion project of NOK 66 billion. But with regard to the possibilities of getting a local and regional use of the gas, I think this can be of great importance. The Working Party, together with a broad majority of the Committee, is committed to the development and operation of the Worm Lange and Langeled. It is an exciting project that we will follow with great interest in the years to come. We want the participants in the license to be happy. Of course, it will be especially eventful for Nyhamna and the Aukra municipality. I would also like to congratulate local politicians and business in the municipality and region, and I feel confident that they will do everything they can to take advantage of the opportunities offered by this expansion.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-02.ana.ud1842e534	This is a good day for Hydro and the licensees, it's a good day for Aukra and More and Romesdal, and it's a good day for Norway. The expansion of the Worm Lange, the second largest gas discovery off our coast, is a gigantic project with an investment of approx. 46.5 billion kroner on the gas field and the land site and well 19 billion kroner on the pipeline Langeled. Development will be a major technological challenge. This will provide exciting work for many people in the construction phase and provide a solid economic boost for the region in a longer perspective. Furthermore, the pipeline to the United Kingdom will strengthen Norway as one of the main suppliers of gas to Europe. All analyses show that the United Kingdom will have to meet a large proportion of its energy needs for gas imports. With Langeled, the export capacity from Norway to the United Kingdom is increasing from 35 million. Sm3 today to 105 Sm3, i.e. a triple. The Worm Lange project is particularly important because the Worm Lange is the latest major finding on the Norwegian base. In order to ensure the long-term development path outlined earlier in notifications of the petroleum activity, it is absolutely necessary for the supplier industry to start such a large and demanding project. There have been objections to proceedings and progress in this case, and of course the location has been discussed. It is always important that the Committee has the opportunity to deal with the facts of the case. I believe that the Committee has had a good opportunity to do so. The documentation and proposal from the Ministry have been transparent and good, and the Council of State has responded to the Committee's questions. The landing question has, of course, been central. As is natural, some municipalities and counties will be very disappointed when the elections are published. In my opinion, it is neither reasonable nor appropriate for the Storting to oversee the builder and the department’s assessment of the best processing method and the best landing site. I think the decision to land the gas to Nyhamna is good, both because of technical issues and bottom conditions in the area in connection with pipelines and because the economic calculations show that this option provides the highest present value of the investment. It is a pleasure that the gas is taken ashore. All parties behind the majority voting agree. It provides greater opportunities for the innovation and development of industrial processes with gas as an important raw material or energy source. Gas prices supplied to Norwegian users can often be a limiting factor in such developments. Reduced transport cost of gas put into service near the landing site could give a competitive price. There will always be some negative consequences of such a large-scale development plan. It is therefore particularly gratifying that developers and licensees have negotiated solutions to such issues with local populations and political bodies. This gives a much better construction period, in harmony with society around it. The Committee has addressed the environmental issues arising from the development process. Emergency plans and environmental measures are outlined by the builder and there is very limited risk of emissions. The Committee also points to the importance of action plans in order to ensure that accidents occur due to the increase in ship traffic associated with the development. Petoro is intended to play a significant role in the development and operation of the Worm Lange field. It makes it necessary for the Storting to authorise Petoro to assume obligations to cover its share of the design and investment costs. I started my article by stating that this is a happy day. The investment in Worm Lange will ensure significant commissions to the competitive Norwegian industry and provide many job opportunities for people in the region. It will create optimism and commitment in the area. This may be the most important thing in the longer term. It will be very happy if we can see good ideas and projects based on the use of gas being realized in this area. It will strengthen our entire industrial environment if we can thus get new stimulation and new growth based on this interesting commodity.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-02.ana.ud1842e555	The decision that we are going to make today opens up the expansion and operation of the Worm Lange, which is the second largest detected gas field on our continental shelf, and that is the first project on such deep water. This is a complex and very challenging project, which imposes great demands on the builder both technologically and otherwise. A total of NOK 66 billion will be invested in this project. This amount also includes costs of the Langeled pipeline, which takes about 1/3 of these investment costs. This entire comprehensive project seems to be economically viable and robust. With such extensive investment, however, I assume that one keeps an eye on the development of costs by the Government and keeps the Storting constantly informed about any deviations from the investment calculations. The rightholders selected as landing site after a comprehensive process by Nyhamna. It was initially very uncertain whether it was going to land at all. I am therefore pleased that the Stortinget today sets out the plans for landing and processing at Nyhamna. The rightholders went through a comprehensive process before they chose this, as I said, and it was initially 14 places that were assessed. Finally, following an overall assessment of the economy, land seizures due to land terminal, environment and safety, fisheries considerations and, last but not least, societal impacts, Nyhamna was selected. But this choice was also controversial. Among others, NOPEF entered the track and protested that no alternative landing sites were identified. This led the undersigned to address this issue in the Questionnaire on 13 November 2002. However, I have come to understand that both NOPEF/LO and others now agree that the landing site will be Nyhamna. I am pleased that Hydro has been positive about the use of gas both locally and regionally, and the Committee was presented with some very interesting plans for gas use when we were on an inspection last week. I am also pleased that a unanimous committee has further raised the level of ambition and added 25 million. extra to complete the gas supply system for a regional high-pressure network. However, there is one thing that gives cause for concern, and that is the power supply to this plant. This shall be covered on a planned basis with electricity from the regular supply system. We know that it per. Today there is a lack of power in the region, and Statnett is therefore planning new power lines for Nyhamna, which also entails billions of costs. This project will also further weaken it as a result of a serious imbalance between supply and demand in the Norwegian and Nordic power markets. Electrification of the plant, as it is so beautiful, means that the energy contained in the system cannot be used. We have to get power from the outside. The problem is that there is no surplus power in the Norwegian and Nordic systems. This means, in reality, that these quantities of power have to be taken largely from polluting coal or nuclear power stations – all of this in order to be so-called environmentally friendly. You have to be in Norway to think of something like that. Unfortunately, in this country it is not politically correct to use the huge gas resources we have for power generation. While in the rest of Europe and to a large extent in many parts of the world, gas use is a good environmental policy, it is only regarded in Norway as pollution. In my view, a gas power plant, or maybe two, needs to be put in place in the region as soon as possible, so that we can achieve the necessary effect and improve the balance of the power market. Unfortunately, this seems difficult, as the Government has brought both the Socialist Left Party and the Workers' Party to its climate goals. I believe it is incredible that Europe's greatest power of energy is capable of rotating it in such a way. The government has no energy policy, and unfortunately there is no majority in the opposition to do anything about this precarious force balance. But this is going to be enough about the power balance. The Worm Lange project and Langeled seem to me to be an exciting new gas adventure. There is an increasing need for gas in the UK market, which also includes and ensures profitability in the project. I just want to end by congratulating the rightholders with Hydro in the head, the Aukra municipality and the Moor and the Romsdal county with the day!
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-02.ana.ud1842e581	I'm taking up SV's proposal to postpone the case to get more options to choose from on the table. Let me start with the case spokesman and say that I think the case spokesperson has done a good job within the scarce timeframes that one has now decided. I had hoped that the Storting had had a little more spine than one has shown in this matter, in relation to the pace and exercise of democracy. Let me also say that it's clear that when it's $66 billion, of course it will accumulate a lot of jobs and some technology developments and have many positive elements with it, as well as the negative elements that you see when it comes to natural interference, increasing greenhouse gas emissions, which we've read about today, etc. But the most important point for me in this debate is that one has only one alternative. Nobody else can choose anything else. It's impossible. According to the case paper, it doesn't mean that much, because this option is both "robust" and the best. Well, that's the only thing that's gone into and out, that's the only thing the size can choose. The Tent Credit cannot be selected if you found out that the Tent Goods were better industrially, as NOPEF has claimed and worked to achieve. You don't know, because it's not provided. Nor can one know if it is such that an offshore solution would have been better, have given better technology development, have created new export products related to precisely deep water and offshore solutions, to solutions that might have been better for the environment offshore. You don't know it, because you can't choose it. So even if Hydro's been working on this for a while, it was taken away, and now the whole thing has to say yes to an alternative and has no other possibilities. I am not able to answer all the questions I ask, please refer to the other options. The case paper is very inexhaustible on why things have been selected away, but it is clear that there is one option that the Storting must choose. Nor will I be able to answer the question of how much the Norwegian people are going to pay for the infrastructure investments that are now being made in the area. One knows what part of them will be, but the Council of State itself writes that ‘any installation contribution for other parts of the investment related to the Worm Lange’ is to be dealt with by Statnett’s board of directors. This means increasing the cost to the Norwegian people of a project that should be covered by the builders. So the Norwegian people will get a higher net tariff, probably, through this expansion. We don't know. We should, of course, have had such an overview when we adopt this. Of course, SV is concerned with managing oil and gas resources on a long-term basis, where both the social, environmental and security, the industrial, not least, and technological assessments are taken into account. It is clear that development projects with investments of SEK 66 billion – said in another way, 22 new opera houses in 22 cities in Norway to DKK 3 billion per year. Paragraph – need a clean and democratic treatment. It has not been fixed when no options are available. The size thus appears only to be a sand-inspiring body, when one has only one alternative and not a democratic ability to choose anything other than to say no. The Progress Party, the Centre Party and SV have a common note asking the Government to follow this project carefully with regard to costs. So we didn't get any more of them to follow this very closely. The size is not occupied with it either. Here, Stortinget shows little responsibility, seems SV. Then one might say that there are at least some who are very happy today, and I understand that. Maybe especially the riding, that lives in the vicinity of the Higher. And Prime Minister Bondevik is happy and looks forward to the flame to shine from the Aukra.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-02.ana.ud1842e598	The representative Hallgeir H. Langeland has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-02.ana.ud1842e601	Today we are dealing with a major and important matter. The government recommends the Storting to do three things in this case: 1. approve plan for the expansion and operation of the Worm Lange gas field with landing facilities at Nyhamna2. permit plans for the installation and operation of new gas pipelines to England, known as Langeled3. consent for Petoro to participate in the development on behalf of the State; It is also proposed to extend powers to Petoro so that Petoro can participate in the petroleum activity in the same way as other rightholders. The centre party supports this. The treatment has now been speeded up in the last round, but there is no completely new case in itself. With inspections and consultations, the Committee has gained a lot of knowledge about the project. The rapporteur shall be thanked for having set up an accurate process and working to reconcile views. It is also the case that a large majority of the committee is concentrated on the most. The Worm Lange is the second largest identified Norwegian gas field and the first deep water project on the Norwegian base. The reservoir is 2,000 metres below the seabed and at a sea depth of 800–1100 metres. The field is planned to be expanded with underwater installations and pipelines to the landing facility at Nyhamna. The great depth of the sea and the location of the field in a raspium create special technical and safety challenges. So the project is technically demanding and will mean that there is new technology being developed here. In this project, Norway is becoming the world leader in new technologies for the extraction of gas from large seas, and we just want to be at the forefront in such areas. There is also one reason why it is necessary for the Government to follow closely the investments in the project and in dialogue with the operator to keep Stortinget informed about cost developments. After all, we're talking about $66 billion. The environmental component is always up-to-date on this kind of issue. Impact studies have shown that emissions to water and air are limited. The CO2 emissions during the exploitation phase will be approximately: 0,1 pst. of Norway’s total CO2 emissions. Here, only CO2 emissions are involved in processing, and actually small emissions. The installation shall be located on the island of Gossen. About 10 pst. the area is purchased by the builder. It causes valuable open-air and natural areas to be lost. This is also an important environmental aspect. 18 people have had to move from their home. That's of course of the heavy stuff. Fortunately, the owners of the house have been paid well for both the house and the land. I am tempted to quote from a note entitled 'The Orm of More'. It's from More and Romesdal County. The following is below a national government point: ‘The value of gas reserves in the Norwegian Sea is several thousand billion kroner. At the same time, gas resources in the Norwegian Sea will last for at least 100 years. It is therefore important that the management of gas resources in the Norwegian Sea facilitates the fulfilment of our oil policy. The Norwegian authorities, inter alia, through the repeal of the GFU, have provided for the EU and deprived themselves of important management tools for the fulfilment of the petroleum policy. A expansion solution with the landing of the Worm Lange to Aukra in More and Romesdal may satisfy all the aspects of adopted Norwegian petroleum policy.» There's a lot of stuff here. The main thing for all of us who are positive about taking the gas ashore is that we're going to use a part of that sea, and that it's going to provide valuable jobs. Norway is a multi-sectoral commodity supplier. That's the way it is with gas. We're using minimal sea ice. Now we get the opportunity to take advantage of it for activity and jobs. During the construction period there will be a very large number of jobs and there will be valuable assignments for Norwegian enterprises. Fortunately, I have been able to assure myself that the country is also involved in getting a job. But it is also true that the operation of the Worm Lange will require 100 years' work, of which 70–75 will be located in the site. In addition, local business and industry show great interest in exploiting gas resources. Here we can mention Hustadmarmor and Tine. Here, different activities will develop in the future, so that the landing site actually becomes a gas node. It must be a priority that we take the gas ashore. It is therefore important that the completion of the supply of gas on a regional high-pressure network is included in the project. It's also a wish from a collective committee. Twenty-five million. kr is small in this context, but it will be of great importance for domestic value creation. Then I just want to join those who want to be happy with the project.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-02.ana.ud1842e644	The government is taking St.prp. No 41 in for the expansion of the Worm Lange and Langeled. The field is expanded with an underwater solution where gas and condensate are transported in pipelines to a new land site at Nyhamna in More and Romesdal. The government goes on to lay the pipeline Langeled, which will transport the gas from the Worm Lange to the United Kingdom. The Committee has done a good and thorough job in this important matter. Of course, I am very pleased with the support given by a solid majority of the Committee on Energy and the Environment in the vote on the Government's proposals for the expansion of the Worm Lange and Langeled. I have noted the leadership of the Committee in terms of implementation. I am in favour of these proposals and will follow up this in the best way possible. The Worm Lange, as several speakers have said, is the second largest gas field on Norwegian pedestal and the last large discovered found on Norwegian pedestal so far. The expansion of the field and Langeled leads to total investment of approximately NOK 66 billion. The expansion of Worm Lange will be the largest oil and gas project in Norway in the years to come. The Worm Lange will be of central importance for the development of the Norwegian gas business. The expansion of the field will help Norwegian gas exports increase by more than 20 billion Sm3 per year. to a possible level of more than 110 billion Sm3 per year. years during this decade. This will lead to Norway strengthening its position as one of the main suppliers of gas to Europe. The development of the land, land installations and pipelines will have considerable employment effects and will help to maintain the level of activity on the Norwegian base. Overall, Hydro estimates the national employment performance of nearly 60000 yearly works. At the regional level in central Norway, the construction of the land and offshore installations of the Worm Lange is expected to give an estimated employment effect of about 10 %. 7 000 annual works. Most of this is due to the construction of the land site. The Worm Lange is a comprehensive project with significant challenges, particularly related to water immersion and laying up pipelines from the Storegga script. The field is 1000 metres deep, more than twice as much as other developed fields on the Norwegian base. Development is the deepest and one of the most demanding in Norway. It shows how important it is to bet on technological competence in order to realise the high values that exist on the Norwegian base. The choice of Nyhamna as a landing solution for the Worm Lange is the result of a thorough assessment of alternative locations, including the Tent Credit. The choice was made after a thorough evaluation of, inter alia, economic, environmental, safety, fisheries and social impacts. The landing solution at Nyhamna was also assessed against an expansion solution where the gas was treated on a platform and exported in pipes. It was gratifying when the licence in 2002 found that landing and construction of a farm is the best overall development solution. Some people are disappointed in this choice of places. I have been concerned that the process around location selection and the choice of development solution should be open and tidy. That's what we've done. I am very pleased with the result. This is a major day for Norwegian petroleum activities and for important coastal workplaces, not least in More and Romesdal. I also congratulate Mr Aukra Municipality on the head of the rapporteur, Mr Mork, whom I see sitting in the diplomatic booth, with a great and important decision in the Grand Duchy today. The Nyhamna landing facility will be able to be used by other fields in the future. It's in the proposition that it's arranged to ensure this. The landing solution provides new opportunities to use the gas in More and Romesdal and contributes to industrial development based on gas. I am pleased that the developer will make investments in the plant that facilitate access to gas for local use as well as for future regional gas supplies. This is important in relation to our ambitions to obtain local gas use and industrial development based on Norwegian gas resources. The development takes place using the best available technology. Attention has been paid to the fact that the operation of fields and land installations will not contribute to environmentally harmful emissions. The projects have been impact assessed under the Petroleum Act and the Planning and Building Act. The studies also show that projects are within an environmentally acceptable framework. It is a reworked project that is being submitted to the Stortinget for decision today. I am pleased with the broad support for this important development on Norwegian pedestal.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-02.ana.ud1842e670	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-02.ana.ud1842e673	Like the Council of State, I am very pleased that there is such broad consensus in this matter, and I am pleased that this is now becoming a reality. I am also pleased with the signals that the Council of State here gives that he is in favour of what the Committee says about adding up to even more local and regional use of the gas. My question is, in fact, how will the Council of States follow up what the Committee says, among other things. that the project must take the cost of the 25 million. kr necessary to complete the system inside the land installation in order to deliver the gas to the high-pressure network, so that Hustadmarmor and other enterprises may have enjoyed it. I am pleased that the licensees have also been interested in facilitating local and regional use of the gas, and in view of that, I assume that this is a narrow matter and that it is in order. If the Council of State can confirm that, we'll be even happier.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-02.ana.ud1842e680	Then the State Council will have Einar Steensnæs the opportunity to spread a little joy here!
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-02.ana.ud1842e683	In good tradition with what I can do in Stortinget, I'll try to follow up today too, and spread joy just before the Stortinget takes the Easter break. What Sylvia Brustad here brings up, I think is very important. I think it is worthwhile that the Committee has focused so much attention on just exploiting the gas for local business and value creation. I will, of course, take with me the clear request of the Committee to the licensees to include a possible high-pressure connection that can supply key companies in the area of required gas. It'll be very interesting to try and get this done, and I'll do my best to pass on the wishes of Storting. I stand behind this wish and hope that it can be realized.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-02.ana.ud1842e690	The government's total lack of energy policy has also come up to the surface in this matter. Despite the enormous amount of energy to go through the Worm Lange plant, we need to pull power from the outside and invest billions in new power lines to get polluting coal and nuclear power, as we have a political deficit in the Norwegian and Nordic power systems. I actually thought that the Council of State and the Government had now seen the light, literally, and arranged for increased power generation to solve both power and power balance. During the treatment of the Snow White case a few years ago, the Government actually admitted that there was no power in the market and therefore opened up to power generation. I would therefore like to ask the Council of State: why does the Government not also open up power generation based on the Worm Lange gas, so that one becomes self-sufficient in electricity in the region and does not allow to pick up the polluting power from the outside?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-02.ana.ud1842e697	We can't just have fun in Stortinget today and celebrate. Of course, we have to cost ourselves some rhetorical points. But I honestly think that the representative, Mr Vaksdal, who is involved in the power supply, like the Minister of Energy, could reserve the line to what this matter is about. The builder has not proposed such a solution as the representative Vaksdal here suggests. With regard to security of energy supply, Stortinget is given ample opportunity to come back to it. This is when the size is to deal with the security of supply notification. Gas power plants with CO2 management will play a very important and central role. I again take the opportunity to congratulate Mr. Møre and Mr. Romsdal, the Municipality of Aukra and all those who are dedicated to using more gas in Norway for value creation, employment and future jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-02.ana.ud1842e706	In its main article, SV addressed problem settings related to the principle that Stortinget has no choice. There is no choice but to say yes or no. I wondered if the Council of State could, on a principle basis, say something about what he thought democracy was going to be seen in such a situation that one really has only one choice, and could not choose, for example. a well-developed offshore solution, which some of us believed was a better, more environmentally friendly and more forward-looking solution. I would like to have some idea of that. So I would also like to see some point of view about this with licensees and the relationship with the state and the Norwegian people, that is, that one actually doesn't know what the infrastructure costs, for example. connect to Statnett, being. Is it so to understand that the Norwegian people are now going to get an account of the investments to be made in the area?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-02.ana.ud1842e713	There has been no practice for alternative solutions in the field development. Pipelines or landing facilities are submitted to Stortinget. If the Storting were to be presented with different alternatives, it would involve quite considerable costs and also be quite demanding technical, in detailing such alternative development solutions. It would also give a whole new division of responsibilities and roles between Stortinget and the commercial operators, with the responsibility it entails, which I actually allow myself to doubt that SV has thought completely through. The NIBR assessment, to which SV refers, states that there is only one alternative that has been explained. The government has decided to join Hydro’s comment, on the basis that other rightholders also considered that other landing options were no longer relevant. There has been a thorough presentation of different alternatives. Four places eventually joined in the riot, of which also the Tent Goods. I can't see that this has been treated in any way in such a way that criticism of that process can be raised.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-02.ana.ud1842e720	The government considers the Worm Lange to be a profitable and robust project, and that is certainly correct. It's a big project, it's special, because it's the first field on such a large ocean depth, and it's being talked about here that new, world-leading technology is being developed to complete the expansion – very interesting. There are many special challenges, such as: racial areas and special considerations must be taken into account so as not to conflict between fish irradiation and gas pipes, etc. There are a lot of complication factors at all. After all, we have different experiences with overruns of budgets, so my question to the Council of State is – a little cautious, as it is the last day before Easter: How will the Council of State ensure itself against large exceedances in this project?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-02.ana.ud1842e725	It is obvious that it is very important to control the cost development of such projects. I judge this project to be very robust financially. It does not mean, however, that one can give the cost part less attention. It is very important that you have costs under control, and of course the authorities also have their role to play. In other projects, the cost has been so critical in terms of profitability that it has also given the Storting a concern as to whether the project is actually profitable. Such uncertainty is not linked to that landlocked facility. But I can promise Stortinget and the representative, Enger, that we will follow it very carefully in this case. And if there is any reason to report to Stortinget about irregularities in cost development, the Stortinget will of course be informed in the usual way. Today, however, there is no reason to assume that these costs are not fully controlled and that the project will be completed in a clean and predictable manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-02.ana.ud1842e733	I understand that the government at any time seems to think that its own policy is excellent, and that the opposition party does not have the same good policy. It must be entitled to do so. But actually, it's also the way SV and the Government have multiples in a lot of things, including. climate policy and land gas for use in Norway. So here we sometimes find some of the matches as well. But the reason why I take the floor is that the Council of State did not answer my question about what the bill is for the Norwegian people, because there are some bills that we cannot read into the file, for which it has not been done well, and which, on the contrary, are to be decided after the decision has been taken here. The question is, what will the Norwegian people's bill for this expansion finally be?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-02.ana.ud1842e740	Let me first of all assure both Hallgeir H. Langeland and – if Øyvind Waksdal were to be in doubt – the Progress Party that I naturally respect the political opinions of the Stortinget other than those of the Government and I. Of course, this is a cause for political debate and disagreement. I have the greatest respect for that, just to emphasize it. The reason I did not answer Langeland's questions in the first place was that he asked two very comprehensive questions. I thought it was important to explain one thing. Now he gives me the opportunity to talk about the other. I would first of all refer to the comprehensive letter dated 25 March that went to the committee, where one just explained the circumstances of Langeland here and where one, among other things. also indicates that one must have an extension of the power line from Istad to the muff station at Hamneset, a sea cable to Nyhamna and a new transformer station at Nyhamna. This will cost something less than 600 million. kr. Some of the gain in the network that one of them adds up to will also benefit the common users. Therefore, Statnett wants to go in and see how much user funding from the project is currently available and how much needs to be put on the network charge.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-02.ana.ud1842e747	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-02.ana.ud1842e752	It's rarely experienced the kind of debates that Stortinget has had in the hall today. But then it is also a very big industrial policy day, of course for the entire Mora and Romesdal counties and for the Romesdal region, but also for the Aukra Commune in particular. The size is currently taking a forward-looking decision that will provide optimism and necessary jobs. For the Møre and Romesdal industrial community, this will have great positive consequences for many years to come. What we have seen today about SV's demonstrative behaviour clearly demonstrates their resistance to sensible solutions for the benefit of jobs and the environment. But with this exception, it is gratifying that the committee is so united. I am pleased that the Storting has set a point for unnecessary new investigations, which would only have contributed to negative focus and uncertainty in the communities. The size is currently taking a decision to speed up the necessary use of Norwegian gas resources. The dimensions of the Stortinget decision today are formidable. I trust Hydro will handle this in the best possible way. And as the rapporteur said in his statement, the entire 60,000 annual works will be in the development phase. But the most important thing is what happens after the deployment phase. Then we have to be able to make the most of the domestic gas and create new jobs — and use the gas in an environmentally friendly way. I would like to refer to Mr Brustad's comments on the importance of the majority now supporting the Workers' Party's proposal for a forward-looking gas solution for Hustadmarmor. Local communities and businesses are ready to contribute. Now let's apply the forces to get an environmentally friendly alternative to polluting coal power, which is what this gas actually is. My party, in More and Romesdal, hopes that the decision taken today by the Stortinget will put pressure on the construction of more gas power stations in our state. This will be a forward-looking and environmentally friendly decision, and I hope that we can get ahead of the plans that exist.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-02.ana.ud1842e769	I get hope the voice keeps like that. At least it's okay to lose it in such a context; in such an important context, you can sacrifice it. This is a great day for More and Romesdal. It's also a big day for Hydro, which is expanding here. In addition, of course, it is a very big day both for Aukra and for the neighbouring municipalities of Fräna and Molde. But it's actually also a big and important day for the nation of Norway. We're talking about a big expansion. We're talking about an investment of NOK 66 billion. It has an impact on business throughout Norway, not just in More and Romesdal. We have deliveries from companies throughout the country and also from abroad. But I think what we're going to have to put a lot of emphasis on when we do such a big expansion as this is to think about what spin off effect we're going to get out of that plant and the landing we're now getting. It is important to facilitate industrial development in this area now. It is important that we also ensure that perhaps part of this gas goes to a gas power plant in the future. And it's unfortunate that you almost see allergic reactions from the government party's representative here now, the government council, just mentioning the word gas power plant. Of course he gets it, because the conscience he has in that context, it's not exactly good. You can see that from the Council of State. It is a fact that the region up there has a great undercover in terms of force. We saw that last year. When we had problems in the power industry, this was actually one of the regions that had a great imbalance. But it obviously doesn't take this government inwards. I hope that we can now get to, among other things. Hustadmarmor gets high pressure gas for its production. I hope we get a great industrial development in the area. I hope we get a great and good growth in this county and in the whole industry in this area. Then it was the representative of Langeland who was involved in a clean and democratic process and questioned it. One cannot be directly surprised that SV, with its complete lack of energy policy, is in favour of postponing and postponing. This is the second time they're trying to postpone the matter only today, and it's alarming in itself. Then it was also shown where both the Reiten and the Prime Minister came from. Then it might end with the following words: When it rains on the priest, it drips on the clock. I think the whole district and the country are enjoying this expansion.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-02.ana.ud1842e788	Finnish Nokia and Swedish Ericsson appear as technological adventures. The Norwegian gas and oil adventure is based on high-technology that is not at all behind this, it is only different and partly more advanced. A shining example is that through research and technology development, it has been possible to expand the Worm Lange field and take the gas into land. A few years ago, this would be a technical and economic impossibility. Very many are pleased with the decision the Storting can make today. We have too many examples of gas pipes going directly from the fields to receivers outside Norway. Today, we are breaking this bad circle, and we are adopting increased value creation in local communities, in the region and in our country. We can't always be familiar with just being a commodity producer. We are helping to facilitate the industrial development of the gas, new jobs, continued technological development and hope for industrial gas processing. Gas-based industry is already developed on the Tent Goods, and the possibilities for further development there and elsewhere are huge, only the authorities and oil companies will. The Worm Lange gas and the landing to the Augra provide great opportunities. I am therefore very pleased that the Stortinget today in clear order believes that 25 million. kr should be included in the project, so that the gas can also be used to develop local industry. This means that comprehensive gas use on land is facilitated. It's very uplifting, as mentioned earlier here today, that a very large company like Hustadmarm has given a signal that they want to use the gas in their production. It could be an initiative involving others in regional exploitation for both industrial, transport and housing purposes. In addition, it is essential that the gas price at the landing site reflects the fact that the costs are lower than those of gas transported throughout the continent or England. I have hopes that when the oil company Shell is going to operate and further develop the Worm Lange field, it will mean a strongly strengthened operating organisation in Kristiansund and new and exciting tasks in the region. I want to give credit today to the oil companies that have taken on a major technological challenge and also what I would call social responsibility. I also give a great deal of credit today to local politicians and administrations, to More and Romesdal County Municipality, to the project organisation «Ormen till More» and to others, including the Department and the Council of State. Without this powerful and sustained effort from all of us today, we had no landing case on the Storting case map.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-02.ana.ud1842e803	I want to join those who think this is a great day for More and Romesdal, Aukra and surrounding municipalities. But I also want to join in what Mr Nesvik said, that this is also a great day for the nation of Norway. It's a huge boost we take as we now go from what many thought would be the solution in the early phase of the expansion of the Worm Lange. We simply saw that there was an offshore solution, and that we had to see the gas going along the coast and abroad. I want to praise the justice for the work they've done, and the communication they've had with the community. I would also like to commend the way the cases have been handled in the various bodies in More and Romesdal, where they have been told that when the legal entities have become aware of a place of landing, everyone will go for it. Here I have to highlight the ‘Orms of More’ project, where a very good job has been done. But unfortunately I can't give the same rose to SV. I agree more and more with the representative Olav Akselsen when he says that SV does not have an industrial policy. For I just have to say, what would Norway be if we were to follow its policy within oil and energy for the past 30 years? But one can be sure that the day we're going to start distributing the values that are created through the Worm Lange, then SV is going to be with and share good. There should be no doubt about it. And they ask a lot of questions. If one listened to, one might notice that the representative Langeland has a dialect that comes from a district that may have just got the most good out of what was found out in the North Sea. What would Norwegian road construction, tunnel construction and shipyard construction be if it hadn't been for what happened in the North Sea? Technological developments in the North Sea have resulted in Norway being one of the world's leading nations when it comes to a good deal of industrial construction and industrial development. This doesn't want SV to be on, but they will distribute well. We're the other people who are involved in making decisions so that we get value creation. Ein has brought the opera into the debate here. Yeah, 22 operas create as much value for distribution as Worm Lange, I just think it's SV that looks like that. Otherwise, I will support the speakers who have said that it is now important and correct that we start taking more advantage of the gas in Norway, that we are not just a commodity producer and deliver it to the rest of the world. Let's use the gas in Norway for the best for all of us!
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-02.ana.ud1842e818	Recently, there have been a wide range of media lookups that have focused on an ever-increasing increase in greenhouse gas emissions. The evening post says today that the power crisis caused the CO2 emissions to explode. Just taking into account our global environment and our international responsibility for reducing greenhouse gas emissions has been the background for resistance to Worm Lange from local SVs. In my opinion, there is no doubt that St.prp. No 41 have been promoted and now treated at an irresponsible pace. Such rapid treatment of a very large, complex and difficult case makes it impossible in practice for the Storting to verify what the Ministry of Oil and Energy claims, namely that the expansion of the Worm Lange is a socially viable and robust project. The decision base is too thin, the lack of impact assessments is obvious and the unanswered issues are many. The representative of Brustad wants local politicians to be happy. I am afraid that this hastening work that the Stortinget is now doing, gives further reason for congratulations and to cross fingers so that no such irresponsible proceedings will have serious consequences. At the same time, I would like to extend a special greeting to the local actors and politicians who have fought hard against the project and the landing at Aukra. Even if we lose this case, it gives me optimism and confidence in the future to see local politicians from Aukra SV, like Olav Hauge, raise their voice and speak a massive local majority in opposition to our global environmental responsibility and our climate commitments. In the long term, I am convinced that this type of argument will be realised, that we will see the impact of a more responsible climate policy than what we are looking at today's call for as much gas as possible to the Norwegian people and the construction of gas power plants as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-02.ana.ud1842e829	It's a great day for Moors and Romesdal and the whole country. Møre and Romsdal are getting their position confirmed today as a gas node in Norway. It is a great pleasure for me that the Storting says yes to extract the gas from the Worm Lange field, and not least that the gas is being landed on the Augera. I am pleased that the builders chose to ‘drag the Worm to land’. In this way, the ratio is better placed to enable the gas to be used for local and regional value creation. The Christian People's Party is aware that the gas can be used in the region for local value creation. Landing the gas to Nyhamna may be a driver for the maintenance and further development of local industry. Business and industry in the region, etc. Hustadmarmor, mentioned by many, has shown great interest in exploiting gas resources. It is a pleasure to record that the builders are interested in contributing to the local use of the gas by facilitating the situation in the plant so that the gas can be passed on to local distribution once the local projects are ready. The size wants the builder to facilitate the delivery of both high-pressure and low-pressure gas. There is reason to believe that the gas price will be favourable, as the freight rate for Nyhamna is lower than for the continent. Through the methanol factory on the Tjeldbergodden, the moorings have already gained experience with the gas industry, and through the environment around Shell's base for the Draugen field in Kristiansund, there is today a great deal of competence in the region in extracting petroleum resources. The Worm Lange field is the second largest detected gas field on Norwegian base. With investments of SEK 66 billion, the expansion will help to maintain the level of investment in Norwegian capital up to the start-up in 2007. This will give work to the Norwegian supplier industry otherwise – about 60,000 annual works throughout the construction phase and 100 annual works during the operational phase, which will provide valuable jobs and incentives for business both in the municipality and in the region and perhaps in the country. Mortars have a long tradition of using natural resources for the creation and development of the region. It is gratifying that developments continue by ‘The Orm is now being dragged ashore at Aukra’. I would like to congratulate the municipality, the county council and local business community on this day. A long and targeted work has now been closed.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-02.ana.ud1842e846	After listening to the posts in Stortinget today, one almost believed that it was May 17th that stood before the door, and not the Easter break. I just have to admit that there's every reason to come up with the big words, that's the absolutely factual basis, because it's a big and important matter in which the Storting decides. Let me also add that there is every reason to give honor to and congratulate Hydro, who – in this context as a development operator – has done a very good job. Since the representative Mr. Ingvild Vaggen Malvik raised the greenhouse gas problem, I would just like to add that it underlines the importance that we can get started on a technology that handles some of the major climate emissions we have on the Norwegian base. We have done well with that technology, but it is obvious that when we get gas power plants with CO2 handling, we will also get a positive account of emissions on Norwegian base in a completely different way. It's an important issue, and the government is very concerned about it. We also have the opportunity to come back to this. At the same time, I would like to point out that the climate accounting is more favourable in relation to the export of gas from Nyhamna than the representative from Vaggen Malvik said. We should bear in mind, not least in view of the significant export of gas to the United Kingdom, that this gas will replace more polluting heat from British coal-fired power stations, thus contributing to a positive environmental account, because CO2 is a global greenhouse gas. We also have to consider that. In fact, this project is also an important environmental measure in many respects.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-02.ana.ud1842e857	I guess you shouldn't get annoyed on such a good day. Nevertheless, I would like to say a few words about the debate we have had. To this end, the Storting should be able to choose the processing mode and landing site. Although I feel that I have an experience, perhaps more than most people in the hall, to evaluate large projects, I won't feel particularly competent to go into all the details and try to say, how are we going to process this, and how are we going to do this? We don't have that competence. Here we've got a setting, after a long process. I feel reasonably confident that the landing site has also been carefully assessed, precisely because some of the licensees have had other interests initially, and so this has been reflected back and forth and found a solution. I feel very well about it, and have in no way any ambition to overdo such a position. And then it's said, "Now the council and the council must follow this closely." In principle, I agree with that. But it is clear that the most important thing is that those who are builders know that if things go wrong, it will have certain consequences later on. It's not easy for us to stop this in the middle of the pipeline between Norway and England. So there's a lot of things we can't do, but of course, we have a very big interest in now calculating these things in a good and proper way. So Hallgeir Langeland says that we have to remember that the government has a majority of SV in some of the issues relating to gas and climate – that's right. However, I would also like to say here that this is not our first choice. So ask Hallgeir Langeland State Council what it will cost to get this line and infrastructure. Yeah, that's pretty typical what SV is asking about. I would like to ask from my side: what will this give the Norwegian people, and what will there be of jobs and opportunities in this district? It is significantly more important in my opinion. And I'm pretty sure that's going to look pretty good. That is why I wish the whole region every success with the project again!
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-02.ana.ud1842e871	I initially didn't intend to take the word, because there's a lot of repetition in descriptions of a project that there's so much agreement about. So I just want to limit myself to congratulating those who are closest to this project: Norsk Hydro, Aukra kommune and Møre and Romsdal, and, of course, our country. As others have been involved, this is a project that is formidable, and will mean a lot to all of us for many, many years to come. However, when I choose to take the floor, it is primarily because I, as committee leader, feel a bit taken by Mr. Ingvild Vaggen Malvik's accusations that the committee has carried out irresponsible proceedings. I really want to refute that strongly. This is a matter that is not new. This is a matter that has been through very thorough processes before it came both to the ministry, from the ministry and beyond to the committee, and then to the Stortinget. We have carried out the same processes that relate to all matters, with travel activities, extensive meeting activities, open hearings, etc., and we have concluded that this was a time-critical project that required a quick clarification. And so it's that SV doesn't agree, and that's what we're told, and we're also happy that the objections that Ingvild Vaggen Malvik and Hallgeir Langeland have made today don't get a majority. Then at least we get others to attend the party, because this is kind of 17 May and Easter and a lot of good parties at once for Norway, Aukra and those who are involved, and then we'll look forward to looking at the opportunities this gives. But I strongly reject the fact that the Committee has carried out an irresponsible examination of this matter. I guess SV would not have said this if the conclusions had been more in favour of SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-02.ana.ud1842e882	The President hopes that the debate will not last until the next celebration. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-02.ana.ud1842e887	That view also shares Langeland. But there's a lot of things that have come up on the pulpit, and that makes it necessary for SV to comment on a couple of things. The one comment goes to Onarheim, poor, who has not got its first choice met. To keep the government position, he has to thank SV. That's a strange way to say it, even though I know that Onarheim is pretty clumsy about working with an environmental party that has a different policy than what he and NHO have. But now Onarheim's party is also in government, and then he has to move forward in relation to it. Onarheim has partners there who are not as eager as he is to build gas power plants on all noses. The option for Government and Onarheim is to go to other gamemates than SV, and then there are two left. One is the Progress Party. They have a policy that Onarheim is probably very satisfied with financially, and that is stable and easy to decide on. A lot of good thoughts about that, I think Onarheim has. The second is the Workers' Party, which until now has promised eight gas power plants in Norway. It will cost something to get them built, and I assume that Onarheim will talk to Per-Kristian Foss before he goes to the Labour Party and make them his first choice. It's okay that we're not the first choice, but I'd like to listen to Onarheim say who's his first choice, because he has to have a first lover -- not just a second lover. There have also been some comments on the SV's responsible industrial policy, a policy in accordance with the international commitments that one has, among other things. Linked to climate. We note that some parties are not at all interested in short-term environmental policy or climate policy, but in all areas only a large Ole Brumm party criticising SV for our desire to have a direction towards industrial policy that takes care of our climate commitments. We note that some parties did not think this was important, but operate on having money for everything. SV has on its territory a security of supply associated with a package that all parties must read carefully. There we offer power, 20 TWh, into the market – among others. to provide Ormen Lange, if appropriate, by 2010. There is much more than that. from the five gas power plants promised by the Workers' Party and others. So there's another direction for someone who wants to use the knowledge and fulfill international agreements.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-02.ana.ud1842e902	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2457]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-02.ana.ud1842e918	At the request of the Committee on Family, Cultural and Administrative Affairs, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each of the groups and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of response be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-02.ana.ud1842e927	Spokesman! - I'm sorry! President! [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-02.ana.ud1842e934	It's just fun!
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-02.ana.ud1842e937	Now I was in the city council in Moss, sorry! As rapporteur for Mr St.meld. No 28 for 2003–04, on sibling moderation in parental payments, etc., I am pleased that we have, in a timely manner, again come to the fore in most areas. We have processed the message in record time, because the regulations will apply from 1 May 2004, when the maximum price of NOK 2 750 per person. the month of 11 months and an annual parental payment of EUR 30 250 shall be introduced. The Committee agrees on everything except for the arrangement of the sibling moderation. It was said here in the previous case that it is ‘17. May’» We have said every time we have reached the goal so far in this case, that it is Christmas Eve, May 17 and birthday at once. In the spring of 2003 the Stortinget adopted new provisions of the Children's Gardens Act on parental pay and equivalent treatment in the context of the treatment of Ot.prp. No 76 for 2002–2003. Consequently, this notification relates to the introduction of rules on sibling moderation in the regulation on parental payment in kindergarten. Furthermore, the Government briefs on the rule on the rule of economic equivalence in relation to government grants. The implementation of the kindergarten agreement is the largest reform in the kindergarten sector ever. On 1 May 2004, the Regulation on parental and financial equivalent treatment of kindergartens in relation to government grants will enter into force and the funds will be introduced from the same date. In the 2004 state budget, the allocation to kindergartens increased by approximately DKK2.2 billion compared to the 2003 budget. State and municipality should cover about 80 pst. of operating costs from 1 May 2004. The nominal level of the municipalities is assumed to be maintained. It is absolutely necessary for us to put in place this reform, which a unanimous increase has said, to be fully financed. The Committee also unanimously stresses that the reform of the kindergarten should be fully financed and that the public subsidy should be adjusted regularly to make up about 80 pst. Unfortunately, what we have seen in 2003 is that many municipalities have reduced their efforts by eliminating sibling moderation. Some municipalities have increased the parental payment and graduated rates have been removed. It is absolutely necessary that the municipalities now follow up what the Storting has decided, so that we get a maximum price, full kindergarten coverage, sibling moderation, intext-graded rates and economically equivalent treatment for private and municipal kindergartens. It is gratifying that we have received about 10,000 new kindergartens in 2003. We have not achieved our objective for 2003, but it is good that our kindergarten settlement has stimulated municipalities and private individuals to build and invest in kindergartens despite uncertainty and short deadlines. What full babysitting will mean by the number of places, we only know when we get step 2 in the maximum price scheme in place. Then we'll see the real need. We know from experience from Sweden that its lower price, the more people want space. The disagreement within the Committee shall be governed by the regulations governing sibling moderation. The majority, the Labour Party, the Advance Party and SV, promote a proposal that all kindergartens with government grants should offer a minimum of 30 pst. sibling moderation for child number two and minimum 50 pst. moderation from third and upward children. I want to stress that this is a minimum. The government parties and the Central Party want the municipalities themselves to determine the level and other detailed rules. The majority have always been clear that we want central leadership in the sibling mode and that it should be fully financed. The development of municipalities in 2003, where municipalities use nominally less for kindergartens than in 2002, makes this even more necessary. The Committee asked at the beginning of the budget. S. No 2 for 2003-2004 on a briefing on the introduction of municipal obligations for the provision of economically equivalent treatment between public and private kindergartens. The government is proposing to return to the question of phase-in in the 2005 budget. A unanimous committee emphasises that equivalent financial treatment is to be achieved and asks the Ministry of the Revised National Budget to present a proposal to do so. It must be understood in accordance with those comments by the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-02.ana.ud1842e965	We are now in the implementation phase of the large kindergarten agreement that an overall committee came up in June last year. It's demanding, and there's a lot of detail to put in place. There are many municipalities to build kindergartens, and many have to adapt to the new requirements now set by the state. In this round, there are really only two questions the Stortinget is invited to take a decision on. That is the question of sibling moderation, and that is the question of income upgrading, given that we ourselves asked for it in the budget procedure last December. We see that the department has suggested that the regulation should state that it is sibling moderation, but the ministry does not address the type of moderation it should be. That's a different understanding than the one we have of the equation that we came up with. When we say that we should have national rules for sibling moderation, we believe that then those rules must be specified. It's not enough just to say that there should be sibling moderation, because then we could have said it in the June agreement last year. The majority have come to the conclusion that we need a minimum level of 30 pst. for the first sibling and 50 pst. for the remaining siblings. It is absolutely necessary if we are to ensure what has been the intention of the reform, that all families with children should have cheaper kindergartens. In the worst case, we could have risked that the maximum price combined with the removal of sibling moderation could have resulted in some families actually having to pay more in their own money than before, at least in phase 1 of the maximum price scheme. When phase 2 of the maximum price scheme comes from August 1, I think all families, regardless of sibling mode, will get out better. With regard to the second question, income moderation, income graduated schemes, we are of the opinion that it should be clear that there should be income-adjusted payment rates. This means that there are free or low-cost schemes for those with the worst means of payment. It's been a little discussion, but there's two sides of the same thing. Here, it is difficult to establish national standardised rules, for what is low income varies according to what a person receives for money, and it varies from place to place in Norway. There are different levels of costs. There are different social assistance schemes. That is why we believe that the national requirement here is good enough by requiring that there be arrangements, and then you get to find local adjustments. In this context, we have been briefed in the Committee on the work to ensure equal treatment of private and public kindergartens. As we see it, it's not for treatment here. We've been briefed, and it's natural to take that briefing. That's what you do with that kind of thing. But we still underline the importance of equal treatment being the result. It was an important premise in the big deal. Some parties may have put more emphasis on it than others. But the nursery arrangement is a whole, where all the important things of all parties are to be included. I want to underline, and I want to ask the Council of State in its statement to respond to or give feedback to, what the Committee says is natural that when we get a real financial equivalent treatment in the municipalities, the earmarked state subsidy, the pediatric rates, is also equal to private and public kindergartens. Different rates have now been introduced. We agreed because it had to compensate for local authorities not giving equal support to private and public kindergartens. When we get into a situation where the municipalities actually have to do it, and it is gradually phased in and put in place, then a unanimous committee believes that the earmarked state subsidies also have to be equal. I hope the Council of State can confirm that she intends to follow it up.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-02.ana.ud1842e984	St.meld. No 28 addresses, as the rapporteur has explained, the introduction of rules on sibling moderation in the regulation on parental care in kindergartens. In addition, the Government briefs on the equivalent treatment of public and approved private kindergartens in relation to the government grant, as requested by the Stortinget in the past. In the attitude of the large nursery arrangement, as several have referred to, which was treated last spring, it was said from a unanimous committee as follows: ‘The Committee agrees that the sibling should be moderated.’ We believe that the Government has followed up. All public and approved private kindergartens shall provide sibling moderation based on national and general rules that will be provided for in the parental pay regulation. This means that parents or nurses with more than one child in kindergarten in the same municipality should be offered a reduction in parental payment. This shall apply whether the children are in the same nursery or in two different kindergartens and whether one is private and the other is public. A sibling moderation shall be provided both for children with full-time facilities and for children with part-time facilities. This will mean an improvement in relation to the situation we have today, because all kindergartens and siblings in each municipality will be covered by this scheme. The right considers that the level of sibling moderation and other detailed rules should be determined by the municipality itself on the basis of an overall assessment in relation to other moderation schemes. But the majority, the Labour Party, SV and the Advance Party, now require the Government to design the regulations for sibling moderation so that all kindergartens with government grants will offer a minimum of 30 pst. sibling moderation for child no. 2 and a minimum of 50 pst. for child no. 3 or more children. We think this is unfortunate for several reasons. A national minimum standard could in practice become a maximum standard. We know that introducing a maximum price from 1 May already involves a strong state regulation of kindergartens. A defined national level of sibling moderation could result in a redistribution from parents with the worst paying capacity to sibling moderators. We believe that this is a somewhat poor policy for distribution. In fact, a majority of the hearing bodies, including the Municipal Councils' Central Association, support the Government's proposal that they decide the level themselves. In addition, I believe this is a override and a detailed management of the municipalities. In the municipal election campaign last fall we witnessed almost a Norway championship in ‘we will give the municipalities the most freedom of action’. SV announced a course conversion, and the electoral programme had as a continuous rhetoric that municipalities had to get greater self-determination and be subject to less state governance. So that's how long it lasted! The Labour Party is committed to talking about freedom of action and increasing municipal autonomy and less state regulation. In practice, they are now doing the opposite. The party of progress has, in essence, never been particularly concerned with local freedom. They continue to promote proposals involving over-management of municipalities. What is the majority's proposal in money? Well, between 11 million. and $15 million. kr – that's 11 million. DKK for 2004 and 15 million. kr on an annual basis from next year. This means that the opposition believes that the municipalities are not competent to control themselves. Most certainly do not show much confidence in local self-government. 95 pst. children are currently in kindergartens with sibling mode arrangements. The municipalities have shown that they handle this in a good way, and the Right has confidence that local politicians will be able to organise the moderation systems in a social and good way in the future. But it's not going to be like that. The majority override the rapporteurs, municipalities and local self-government. I think they show little trust in the municipalities. And I believe that the rapporteurs from both the Labour Party, the SV and the Progress Party are not particularly enthusiastic about what is now happening. But let it be quite clear: it is not the government that has suffered defeat in this matter, it is the municipal autonomy, the local politicians and the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-02.ana.ud1842e1015	If there are people who have suffered defeat, some have also won. It has all the parents with all the hundreds of thousands of children who now have a predictable economy. It goes towards spring and summer – also in Stortinget. And just as surely as the blue road pees out of the field, it's just as sure that Stortinget gets a babysitting debate. This time, the requirements for sibling moderation and an indication of the rules for non-discrimination apply. In the case of sibling moderation, the Progress Party shall agree with the Working Party and SV on a minimum rate of 30 pst. for the first child and 50 pst. for the others. Otherwise we refer to the posts that the Working Party and SV have. But the big nursery agreement is on several pillars. For the Progress Party, equal treatment of private and public kindergartens is the most important thing. First of all, to ensure the operation of the 42 pst. by the kindergartens operated by private persons. Secondly, to ensure that there are enough kindergartens, that no one has to wind up, but that there are enough kindergartens for those who want them. What we're not interested in is that some of the private kindergartens have to wind up because of the Storting's decision on the maximum price. Therefore, it is important – and I cannot stress enough how important it is – that the Government actually comes back to the revised national budget for 2004 and presents an approach that ensures non-discrimination. There's a lot of uncertainty out there among the private kindergartens about how this really gets to be. I have daily enquiries from both municipal and private kindergartens where frustration is arousing. They do not know what is happening, they do not know what obligations the municipalities have under the regulations that have already been sent out. Many private kindergartens have a huge gap between costs and income. And I have an understanding of this. It is almost impossible to operate a business with as unclear and uncertain a framework as the private kindergartens are now facing. The first phase of the reform will come into force in just under a month's time, and neither the municipalities nor the private kindergartens are absolutely sure of its consequences. That's why we have to get this in place as soon as possible. We have to give parents and kindergartens a guarantee that what Stortinget has decided is actually implemented. If private kindergartens are to turn out unlucky, the government must also be willing to change its non-discrimination regulations, so that there is no doubt that private and public kindergartens should – and I stress – be treated equally and equally. Snuble words such as ‘moderate non-discrimination’ should not be found either in the regulations or in the documentation surrounding the regulations. We do not want or want to take a rematch on non-discrimination. But then the Council of State must assure me that we can expect her to come back to the revised budget with the necessary solutions. Here it is important that we are crystal clear and do not leave any room for doubt: private and public kindergartens should be treated equally. And I hope that this will be clarified in the revised national budget for 2004.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-02.ana.ud1842e1032	In the spring of 2003, Stortinget adopted the most comprehensive child care reform of the time. In this we asked the Government to come back with a case of sibling moderation and an orientation on equivalent treatment. The first stage of the maximum price is now 1 May, and the first phase of equivalent treatment. I have had many telephones from kindergarten owners and municipalities who have had many questions about how this should be done. I would therefore like to commend the Ministry of Children and Family, which has held regional collections to clarify and provide good information on how this should be handled in a practical way. It has been so successful that we in the Kommunal Report have been able to read about a pediatric director in Ullensaker who is now looking forward to 1 May, because now he has got the tool he needs to implement what we have decided. We come back to the phase-in of economically equivalent treatment. I think it's very wise to take this step by step. No one wants this to go wrong, and we therefore need to assess the impact on kindergartens and municipalities before we go further. But today, it's the sibling moderation we're discussing. The size agreed that the sibling should have moderation. How this is to be done, the Storting did not say anything about it. The government has submitted national regulations on sibling moderation, which stipulate that parents with more than one child in kindergarten in the same municipality should be given sibling moderation. This applies either to children in the same nursery or to two different kindergartens, and to a child in a private kindergarten and one in a public nursery. Moderation shall be offered whether full-time or part-time. Local rules and levels must be determined by the municipalities themselves. I register today that it is only the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Center Party that recognizes the efforts the municipalities have actually made in this matter. The Labour Party, SV and the Progress Party will set this effort aside. What kind of effort am I talking about? 95 pst. by all children today in kindergartens with a sibling mode offer. The average level is 32 pst. in public kindergartens, in private it is 22 p.m. When the average is 32 pst, that means that many have left over and many have under this percentage. When a majority in this hall today says 30 pst. for siblings no. two, this may be a rise for those under 30 p.m., but the danger, when there are so many conversions and restrictions in income, etc., is that this will not be a minimum standard, but can quickly become a maximum standard. We believe that the municipalities know their families and their needs. At 95 pst. already in kindergartens offering sibling moderation shows that municipalities have taken their responsibilities in this area. I think it is sad that a majority will take such an overwhelming step in a matter that the municipalities have taken so well into their own hands. Overarching the local People's Government is to be done with caution. I remember representatives from SV who, in advance of the previous municipal election campaign, were high on the track to praise the local People's Government. It was almost perceived as a new programme statement – now we should have a new course. But now, when it's almost four years until the next time we're going to have a municipal election campaign, this might not be so important. I could understand this if this was something the municipalities had not taken hold of, but our municipalities have shown that they have done so. That the Workers' Party, like the State Party, also wants this overgovernment of the People's Government, is probably not so strange, nor is it that the Progress Party, which sometimes really wants to have just one direct line in from the people of the state and otherwise remove several sections, does it. The Christian People's Party will vote against Roman numerals I and II. We recognise the local people's regime. We believe that when it comes to knowing the families, the municipality can do this best.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-02.ana.ud1842e1058	It makes sense that it is now a long way to go to agree on the regulations governing changes in the kindergarten law prior to the next stage of the agreement on kindergartens adopted by the Stortinget. The Central Party, like the Committee as a whole, believes that there should be sibling moderation in the reform and that it should be available in all kindergartens. However, we have chosen not to support the wish of the Workers' Party, the SVs and the Advance Party to determine the concrete rates of moderation through regulations. There are two reasons for this: one is that we believe that there must be a limit to how detailed the state should actually govern the plans of the municipalities for siblings. In our opinion, this goes simply too far in a detailed management of the state. The second reason, perhaps even more important, is that due to the country's preliminary under-financing of this reform, it needs to be able to hold further discussions before the next stage can be implemented. It's a fact that the real increase in government subsidies this year to implement the reform is actually only 80 million. kr. Of the 485 million. So kr that's in the discretionary pot and the discretionary grant, it's just 80 million. kr representing a direct government grant. It's completely inadequate, so this is a question you have to get back to in the context of the revised national budget. The centre is also concerned about the need to obtain an income grade for places in kindergartens. We are concerned that when we now have a situation in which we have detailed control over sibling moderation, while still under-financing the reform, the question of place valuation can become a balancing item on an inadequate basis. The main problem that today’s debate is starting from – and we have to address it in the future – is that the state has still not provided the full funding that is promised. We have to get back to that, and we don't get to that in the future. If not, we will repeatedly end up in this kind of detailed crossroads that we are facing today. When the Advance Party, the Workers' Party and the SV are accused by the government parties of detailed regulation, there is something in it, but I would also like to say that the Right and Christian People's Party must remember that there is no freedom of action without the resources promised are actually granted. It'll be a little hollow to talk nice today about local government and local maritime governance and freedom of action and push it forward as a honeymoon, if at the same time you don't intend to fulfill the promises made by the state regarding the resources of the reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-02.ana.ud1842e1073	From 1 May onwards, private kindergartens have a public finance guarantee. For the first time, with the equivalent treatment regulation, municipalities are given a statutory financial responsibility for the private kindergartens. The rules providing for equivalent treatment provide government grants to private kindergartens which ensure continued sound operation when the user payment is reduced. In the nursery agreement, the Committee agreed on the wording as follows: ‘The Committee agrees that the sibling should be moderated’. The Government established the principle that the sibling should have moderation and elaborated this in such a way that moderation should apply whether the sibling is in the same nursery or in two different kindergartens, and whether the nursery is private or public. In the consultation note on sibling moderation, the Government asked for views on an option of 30 pst. moderation of siblings. I see some advantages with such a clear rule. It's easy to relate to. It ensures the same moderation rate for all parents with more than one child in kindergarten, regardless of the municipality in which you live. However, a fixed percentage of sibling moderation was not the government’s recommended alternative. There are several reasons for this. First of all, we know that sibling moderation is given in most kindergartens. 95 pst. children go to kindergartens offering sibling moderation. This tells me that the municipalities are evenly setting up their user payments in a social way. I hope that municipalities today offering better sibling moderation than the national rates will maintain these arrangements and rates. But we should not be surprised if some will not get better at national rates. At this time last year, the parties played on their municipal election program. Then there was a high season for paroles on less state detail management and increased municipal autonomy. SV Vice-Chairman, representative Øystein Djupedal, announced course conversion on behalf of his own party. You should now accept municipal elections – even those you didn't like, called it. It is possible that such principles only apply in election years, and that is not the case this year. The government's overall policy is to strengthen local self-government, and that is what we stand for in election years and in intermediate elections. The government, with its proposal, wanted to give municipalities more space for action. We believe that whoever's wearing the shoe knows best where it's pressing. I think the municipalities themselves could elaborate the details of the reform. I think it would give a very good social arrangement on the parental payment as state-rated rates. Of course, I fully support the idea that the moderators for those with the lowest payment capability should not be weakened. This is a matter of great importance to the Government, and it is also laid down in the kindergarten agreement. A majority of the Committee requests that the regulation on sibling moderation be designed in such a way as to provide for a minimum of 30 pst. for child number two and minimum 50 pst. for third children and more children. The government will follow up on this. The ministry closed yesterday a series of meetings for the municipalities to enable them to handle the regulations that are in force. We have produced a guide for the practice of the equivalent treatment rule. Personally, I have also met with some rapporteurs on the reform of kindergarten. Feedbacks are that the reform is good, and that municipalities are happy to be able to lift the nursery facilities and offer their population full childcare facilities at moderate prices. At the same time, however, there is concern about the time pressure. I have recommended that municipalities find flexible transitional arrangements in cooperation with private kindergartens. I'm glad that the committee saw the need for a prompt treatment of St.Maltigation. No 28, so that with the decision today, we can finally get the last pieces in place before 1 May, even if it gets tight under this date. Finally, I can answer the representative, Giske, yes to all the questions. We're going to follow up the nursery arrangement. It says about equal state subsidies as well as phase-in. That's what we're now taking a big step in relation to.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-02.ana.ud1842e1102	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-02.ana.ud1842e1105	First of all, I think there's a lack of logic in a reasoning here. It says at 95 pst. of all the children already experience going to kindergartens with sibling moderation. But at the same time, adding a minimum list of moderation is a serious intervention in the autonomy of municipalities. If that minimum list does not have any practical significance other than confirming what is actually the situation in the municipalities, I cannot understand how it can be linked to the fact that it is an intervention in the local authority's own jurisdiction. Then there will be no practical consequences. Of course, the municipalities are free to go over those rates. What determines whether or not they do is the total municipal economy, and there I think maybe the Council of State should take some tougher fights within its own government, in the choice between large tax havens and more money for the community goods. Because it's what ultimately decides whether the municipalities can afford to go beyond the minimum rates of sibling moderation. For non-discrimination: We have seen a danger that with a higher government grant to private kindergartens over the long term than to municipal authorities, there may be an incentive for kindergartens to actually pay for privatization. Therefore, it is important to obtain a confirmation from the Council of State that the differentiated earmarked state subsidy is only a temporary scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-02.ana.ud1842e1112	It is in the phase-in concept that this provision on economically equivalent treatment that we are now introducing is actually applicable for 2004. It's actually the first step towards an equivalent treatment. We're going to follow it up. I'll confirm it once again. It is stated in the kindergarten agreement — we interpret it this way — that once we have gone to the stage of having a full equivalent treatment, the state subsidy should also be made equal. The problem that the representative Giske is addressing is not an extensive problem. We see today that happens. If we look at the numbers from last year, we know that some kindergartens that had previously been municipal were privatized. But there were even more of the private kindergartens that were made municipal. We're going to look at that challenge. This means that non-discrimination should be introduced as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-02.ana.ud1842e1121	I don't like expressions like the municipalities are going to find "spicy" solutions. But I asked the Council of State to assure me that we can expect her to come back to the revised national budget for 2004 with solutions for equivalent treatment. There can be no doubt that full equivalent treatment will be initiated from 1 May 2004. That is why I reacted quite spontaneously when the Council of State of the European Union just said to have 'full equal treatment'. Then I actually want to ask the Council of State: when is it she thinks we're going to get full equivalent treatment?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-02.ana.ud1842e1128	We'll get back to revision. Of course we do. We have a majority comment that all the parties – including the government parties – have joined, so we're going to come back. A comment on «smug» solutions: I am going to write a letter that goes out to the municipalities today or tomorrow, because we have seen that some municipalities may think it has been a bit difficult in a transitional phase. Private kindergartens have also made contact with the Ministry in relation to how to facilitate this in a good way when you are so late informed about this new parental payment regulation. I have a great deal of understanding that maybe you can find "smiling" solutions. It takes too much time to get into that letter. In terms of equal treatment, we have said both in the budget last year, to which the Stortingen has joined, and in the kindergarten report that this is the first step on the road to equal treatment. The cost differences in private kindergartens and municipal kindergartens suggest that we have to do it this way.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-02.ana.ud1842e1142	Governments are concerned with SV's reverse operation in relation to municipal freedom. It's actually so that there's not much municipal freedom under this government. The municipalities are starving. Any major reform in this process has received earmarked funds. The council says she has great confidence in the municipalities and wants to give them great freedom. In 2003, when the state grant to kindergartens increased by about 20 p.m., it turned out that the nominal contribution from the municipalities had fallen. Two out of three municipalities have reduced their nominal contribution, the parental payment has increased, graduated rates have been removed, and some have also removed the sibling’s moderation. Then I would like to ask, what sanctions can the Council of State in the future imagine if this continues? How are we going to get this into port?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-02.ana.ud1842e1153	First, I want to establish what Stortinget obviously agrees with, that this reform should be fully financed by the state. We're adding up to that. There has never been as much money injected in the kindergarten sector as it is now. I also want to say that we should not forget that from 1 May 2004, the total grants from public to private kindergartens will cover about 80 pst. of the cost of running a private kindergarten. This applies to all kindergartens. It's important. Then I would like to say that the figures quoted by the representative May Hansen are probably based on KOSTRA figures – preliminary, unsecured, not quality-assured accounting figures, where at least half of the municipalities are missing. So these are very uncertain numbers. I can't believe that the representative in that way is right.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-02.ana.ud1842e1162	Governments consistently use the expression government grants. I get that. But what's exciting here is what the state grant is going to be. The Ministry says in the message: ‘Due to the large cost differences between kindergartens and between municipalities, real growth in public funds in 2004 has been introduced as State discretionary means.’ But of the state discretion is 405 million. kr a compensation for municipalities in order to fulfil the condition we have imposed, namely to pay the nominal share in 2003. That's not state grants we're talking about. The real state subsidy is just 80 million. kr. My question to the Council of State is simply: Is that enough? Or will you come back in the revised national budget with the necessary funding from the state, provided for by the entire Storting?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-02.ana.ud1842e1176	Of course, we come back to the revised national budget, as we agree both from the Government and from the Stortinget side. With regard to the state discretionary funds, we are following the scheme that was put in place, to which the Stortingen joined last year's budget, namely that the state discretionary funds, plus the municipal grants and the state funding will be 80 pst. of the cost of running kindergartens today. A cost limitation has also been introduced to which Storting has joined. With regard to the development of the state grant, i.e. what we are going to contribute to the increase in costs in the sector in this respect, it is related to the normal increase in wages and prices in the State grant itself, which was considerably increased on 1 August last year.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-02.ana.ud1842e1185	It's two relationships. One is the balance between the use of the word grant and the use of the word cost. We can't get into a situation where we create a system that stimulates unprofitable driving. We must have systems that enable municipalities and private kindergartens to operate economically, so that we do not end up with a system in which to promote kindergartens that run unprofitably. There is also no way of punishing children's gardens that run economically when they are able to earn a profit that allows them to expand their skills over time. I just want to underline something, related to a comment from the committee. If this has not been perceived by the Council of State, it should at least now be understood that there is obviously no agreement of the majority of the Committee on the content of the regulation in this area. That is precisely why it says in the note: ‘The regulation must be understood in accordance with these remarks’. I ask the Council of State to confirm that she intends to do so, because this is quite critical of the future credibility of the entire nursery financing.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-02.ana.ud1842e1195	We'll come back to that discussion in revised form. That was not the case today, but I understand that many of the representatives are concerned about this. I agree with the representative Jensen that it must be lucrative – let's say so – to run economically. Of course, those who are profitable should not lose weight. At the same time, it is in the nursery agreement that we must also have strict cost control by the authorities. This means that during this phase-in period, as it actually is – and it is also mentioned in the majority of the Committee's comments that we should return to further phase-in of equal treatment – we must also take into account that the differences have been enormous in the cost of kindergartens. So if we were to make a similar state grant now, for example. In fact, based on what private kindergartens have, which is higher than municipal ones, we can demonstrate that very many private kindergartens already have enough to implement the maximum price scheme. They would then be able to make a large profit, and it does not run counter to cost control.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-02.ana.ud1842e1202	The chord shift has been completed. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-02.ana.ud1842e1207	There has been no doubt that the partners agreed that we should have national, overall rules and universal arrangements for sibling moderation. We need a minimum offer across the country, a minimum standard. With regard to income-adjusted payment rates, and with concern for reallocation of funds from those who are now undergoing sibling moderation to those who are most disadvantaged, we have clearly said that no one should come out worse than today – and we say that we should have income-graded rates. That's what the whole committee says. I would like to make it clear once again: we have said that the reform must be fully financed, and the Council of State must keep an eye on it. When it comes to central management, I was to the extent involved in my previous post. This is a huge reform that is going to be an offer to parents and children across the country. All children shall have the right to kindergarten, maximum price and sibling mode, and all shall have an income grading system. All of this has been part of the government's party. Isn't that the detailed management of the municipalities? Yes, and the government parties have been on it. The difference here is that a minimum standard for sibling moderation will cost 11 million. kr. The terrible detail management by SVs, the side of the Progress Party and the Workers' Party is 11 million. kr. Some municipalities do not have this arrangement. We've heard that, 95 pst. Hasn't. I want to say to the Council again: in fact, whether the COSTRA agreements are not quality-secured to the smallest detail, we know that this is happening. I know it from my own state, because I'm still a municipal politician. Prices in kindergartens have been increased, sibling moderation removed, and income modulation has also been removed. Of course, I have great confidence in Kommune-Norge, but it is clear that we have a local economy that makes it difficult to run so many tasks. I do not believe that the municipalities are throwing the money out of the window, they are being used in other important areas in Kommune-Norway. Is this defeat of the Government or defeat of the municipalities, which the representative Sjøli was in? The Council of State therefore knew that there was a majority for this control of sibling moderation. We said that quite clearly, and it is up to the Council of State to come back with a proposal – which gives a new defeat.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-02.ana.ud1842e1220	Politics is not always as simple. I have to admit, I often have a double life. I am sitting as a magnificent representative, and then in the next phase, I come home to a municipality and I'm going to practice politics. I often experience the distrust that lies in both being a local politician and meeting in a big deal that lays the foundations for the job to be done. Since Ullensaker Municipality was previously mentioned here today with a positive sign, I would like to say from the administration that when we started to prepare our budget in our municipality, the County Council of Oslo and Akershus signaled that the kindergarten reform that has been treated and adopted would cost us 13 million. NOK only for 2004. So they asked us to add 13 million. Extra kroner, and we didn't have that money at all. On Monday, as was the case, Ullensaker ruled the matter that Stortinget now decides – and it is nice to hear the debate. We then decided to introduce a moderation of 10 pst. It is quite right, as the representative Giske here presented in his first post, that there are many parents in our municipality who will actually get increased costs compared to what they had from the graduated rates that we had introduced in our municipality and drove quite emphatically. I'm very excited about how this will turn out. I have been in contact with my party, and I know that my political colleagues in Ullensaker have also been asking in the ministry about how this will actually turn out. Because that's what we're so excited about: what are the real costs, and what does it matter to each municipality? I am pleased that Stortinget signals so strongly that this wants Stortinget to follow up, and I also perceive that the department at the Council of State is positive to follow up so that the municipalities will be able to get down on their legs. The last reform I overheard, and also took part in the debate on, was the rates for camp school stays. Then I remember the Council of State saying they had a survey that showed that camp school on average cost 800 kroner – and then granted the Stortingen 1000 kroner to be very good and kind. When I returned home and asked my local government how much a camp place really costs, it was about NOK 2000 – 3000. So we live in a little bit of different worlds, and so it's kind of exciting to look at the consequences of finally solving this equation. It is a little special as rapporteur to vote in favour of such detailed management.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-02.ana.ud1842e1235	Very briefly to the representative Hansen: I fully agree that the whole kindergarten reform is a solid detailed management of the municipalities. Well, that doesn't make matters any better. Last summer we were busy getting a broad deal when it came to this kindergarten reform, getting to expand kindergartens so that everyone would have an opportunity, and getting reduced parental pay. We were committed to getting this whole system in place, and that we could accept it for a transitional period. The majority of adults have decided that all the money to go to kindergarten development and the operation of kindergartens in the years to come should be included in the framework of municipalities from 2006. I fully agree that we must follow closely what is now happening in the future in relation to the municipalities, and at the same time we must not control the municipalities more closely in this area than what is actually necessary. Otherwise it was interesting to hear the rapporteur from Ullensaker.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-02.ana.ud1842e1244	Yes, it's precisely that this whole big deal agreed that we should control the municipalities in detail in order to get this reform into port. In the case of the difference between the Government Parties and the Workers' Party, the Advance Party and SV, there is an amount of 11 million. kr. Finally, I would like to stress that we have said quite strongly now that economically equivalent treatment is going to be the result, and we ask the ministry to come back to revision. This must mean that private kindergartens can have the same possibilities for pension schemes, collective agreements and proper quality. It is considered that signed treatment is economically equivalent. I also agree with the Central Party on the concern of the shrewd. It has to be used for a lot, and this has to be followed closely. That is why we have asked for this to be brought back in the revised version, so that we can see that we are really fully financing. What I think is a little clever, and it's about both the Council of State and the representative, Sjøli, they're not worried that the earmarked funds we've invested in the municipalities, they're not actually going to kindergartens, but they're used for other things. This is quite worrying, because it is absolutely necessary that the nominal level in municipalities be used for kindergartens.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-02.ana.ud1842e1257	Once again, I can't go well because the numbers that May Hansen is aiming for are right. I think she said on the radio today that two out of three municipalities have reduced their share in the sector. The whole childcare arrangement also requires municipalities to maintain their share in the sector. That is an important prerequisite, and the ministry will of course follow this closely in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-02.ana.ud1842e1264	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[See page 2458]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-02.ana.ud1842e1277	Then we are ready to vote on the issues on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-02.ana.ud1842e1312	During the debate, Mr Evje presented a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party and the representative of Mr Simonsen. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to take into account the solution referred to as the ‘Sørge-for-Lånekasse’ for the modernisation of the State’s Education Loan Fund.’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-02.ana.ud1842e1341	During the debate, Mr H. Langeland put forward two proposals on behalf of the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘Displaced the treatment of St.prp. No 41 and asks the Government to address the impact of two options in addition to landing at Nyhamna in Aukra, as well as a holistic socio-economic analysis of the three options. ‘... [[2003-2004]] Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to clarify the principal aspects of the failure of the Storting to present the total infrastructure investment to the Worm Lange when decisions are taken.’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-02.ana.ud1842e1363	Mr H. Langeland has asked for the floor to be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-02.ana.ud1842e1366	Now that SV's proposal for different options to choose and postpone matters has fallen, SV could have made an alternative proposal that was even worse distributed than it is today. We don't, so I recommend that my teammates support this option.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-02.ana.ud1842e1371	Then we should have great opportunities to get this unanimously.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-02.ana.ud1842e1450	The President expects the Right, the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the Left to vote against. Is that correct?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-02.ana.ud1842e1453	We want to vote against Roman I and for Roman II.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-02.ana.ud1842e1584	Then the President will wish the representatives a really good Easter.
