ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-18-2.ana.ud950e30	Norwegian marine mammals policy is very important for the nation. It is about business, resources and the environment. I am therefore pleased that we have been able to agree on the main features of the message in the processing of this message. I would like to commend both the case rapporteur and the other representatives of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights on the matter. The government has also provided a good basis for the treatment through a communication that gives a good description of the situation and describes the history of the industry in a teaching way. I think it is of great importance that Norway can show the world around us that there is a broad political and professional consensus in Norway that the taxation of marine mammals is right and necessary to keep the balance in the management of marine resources. Marine mammals are a renewable resource and must therefore be part of a comprehensive ecosystem-based management. I don't want to turn the marine mammals into scapegoats for the resource situation in the fisheries, but when we know that the most commonly observed species of marine mammals in our areas consume the order of 5.5 million tonnes of biomass per. In 2002, total fisheries took up 2.74 million tonnes, harvested from the same ecosystems, and the need to be careful with management is understood. The Committee has had a wide-ranging consultation on the notification and has otherwise received many input into this matter. I record that both business operators and environmental organisations are in agreement that as long as the population of wave whales is not threatened, there is nothing wrong with increasing the output. I have noticed that an extraction of 1 800 animals has been mentioned, and I hope the department will evaluate such a number as soon as it is possible to implement it. The management of our marine mammals is too serious a matter to depend on feelings. Reasonable assessments and balances must be carried out here. Everyone agrees that humane killing methods are very important, but it is also an orderly relationship that is an example of follow-up. This is also documented by researchers at the Norwegian veterinary college, the section for Arctic veterinary medicine in Tromsø. I also think it is important to consider opening up research catches to other species, so that research in this area can be increased. In particular, fishermen report large quantities of jumps that are becoming a significant problem, and there must be grounds for looking at the population. As far as self-anxiety is concerned, the Storting through the examination of Document No. 8:65 for 2001 to 2002 calls for increased coastal fishing quotas and for the assessment of financial subsidies for catches and better processing possibilities for products. There is no doubt that over-selling is a threat to fisheries. Many good fish fjords suffer from too large populations of seals. The fish are used to be destroyed and the quality of the fish is reduced in these areas because of the infection of the fish. I agree with the Government that products of marine mammals can be used to a much greater extent than is the case today. Therefore, product development is very important. Here I would like to say that much of the product development can be made easier by looking at old traditions and crafts. Here I still think that many coastal communities have a lot to contribute, but it's urgent enough to acquire that knowledge while it's still there. I believe that when dealing with this communication, we have laid the foundation for a policy of marine mammals that can be predictable and that can show the world around Norway taking responsibility in a matter that can seem too difficult to many. I think this makes us more respect for our decisions in the world.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-18-2.ana.ud950e56	Let me also first have the opportunity to commend my colleagues in the committee for having shown great pragmatism and willingness to cooperate in the setting of the Norwegian Maritime Animal Policy, in order to achieve a position with a broadest possible majority behind me. In particular, this is the case spokesman, Lodve Solholm, who has done a solid job. Certain parts of Norwegian marine mammals policy are controversial internationally. For this reason, it is important that the Government has a broadest possible majority in its back of these questions, which is also of interest to the industries to which it applies. The government has put forward a proposal for a new, holistic and active management of species, habitats and ecosystems. The administration shall take care of both the protection and the sustainable use of marine mammals. Marine mammals represent a renewable resource, and at the same time constitute an important component of the biological deficiency of marine ecosystems. Marine mammals must therefore be part of a holistic ecosystem-based management of our marine areas. The pre-goods principle shall be applied to housing and other natural interventions that may affect the condition and development of populations. The government's proposal for the future management of marine mammals is also aimed at facilitating better profitability in fishing industries, so that they can realise a value creation that is significantly larger than today. This will give positive effects to the fisheries industry in general. With a broad national political agreement on management, there is now a foundation for a healthy, sustainable economic development based on the housing of marine mammals and other renewable marine resources in accordance with the Convention on the Law of the Sea. On the basis of this broad national agreement, the Government can now seek the broadest possible acceptance for a holistic Norwegian administration of marine mammals in the international forums. On three points it has not been closed to arrive at a cross-political agreement on the setting up of the Committee. It is the case-speaker’s proposal to allow, as a probationary arrangement until 2009, the whole year-round housing of Greenland’s herring in all ages and waters. Where appropriate, there is a quota bonus for self-afraid cuts and there is an obligation to increase the withdrawal of balances. The proposal to the case-speaker on the whole year of housing of Greenland-Self included, inter alia, the following: capture of white kids. However, the Government Party and the Workers' Party and SV agree with the Government that even if one understands that the industry wants to drive the catch as effectively as possible, there is no particular demand for the fur for whites. At the same time, the capture of white kids is problematic in relation to international opinion. The majority of the committee will therefore not support the lifting of the ban on the capture of white papers, and refers to the message, pointing out that the catch should be aligned with the products which provide the greatest economic benefit. A large number of members of the Committee, apart from the SV and the Center Party, are concerned about the Government's idea that the quota bonus for self-fear shots can be considered as a tool to increase interest in catching the cell. Nevertheless, the same majority points out that the Government must take account of its views on the fisheries industry when it comes to the design of these schemes. All parties, except SV, have gathered behind a proposal to ask the Government for advice as soon as possible to increase the annual withdrawal of wave selections, materially relative to the current level, in line with recommendations from Norwegian researchers, such as quantification and a comprehensive fishery industry has requested. The entire Committee also asks the Government to consider giving the North Atlantic Marine Mammal Commission an active task in the setting of total catch quotas and in the allocation of catch quotas between Norway and other countries, as it has proved difficult to get the IWC to manage the qualifi cables that can be housed. SV on its side clearly believes that it is still the IWC track that is preferable, to increase the output of wave options. It may seem as if SV here is trying to ride two horses. In quail-catches, SV stands out as being very positive to increase the catch of wave options. When it comes to political reality, the line is something different. Elles is interesting that submitted to the Ludvigsen State Council to allow tourists to take part in the hunting of the coast now get wide political containment. The defamation of this submission is tacit. It's only the Center Party that's still having trouble with tourists on sales yachts.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-18-2.ana.ud950e73	The government has had a good aim with this message, to lay the foundation for a healthy, sustainable economic development based on the housing of marine mammals and other renewable marine resources in accordance with the Maritime Law Commission, while taking into account the national and international obligations of Norway in relation to the protection of biodiversity and habitats in our marine ecosystems. The Committee therefore endorsed the Government’s proposal to base an ecosystem-based management. But after hearing some of the articles here today, I want to add some perspective that we have included in the setting. Ecosystem-based management is a demand from the Johannesburg Summit on Resilient Development in 2002. The whole point is that one should consider the species in the ecosystem and the bond between them and the interaction between them. Ecosystem-based management means that one should follow the precautionary principle, and then knowledge becomes the determining element. I am therefore very pleased that the Committee has made it clear that more research into biodiversity, species wealth, species characteristics, and the bond between them is a commitment to happiness with ecosystem-based management. The notification clearly states that it is the human activity that is the main cause of the current situation in the fisheries sector and that the marine mammals cannot be made into scapegoats for irresponsible exploitation and overexploitation of stocks. The notification also states that it is difficult to establish exactly the relationship between the size of the marine mammals and the impact of their consumption on the fish stocks. Just research is required to be a traveler to reduce this uncertainty. I am glad that the committee has included these complex contexts in its setting. This case has told me that the more one knows, the more one knows that one does not know. The link between their consumption of fish and their resources and what is commercially interesting for us is more complicated than subtracting their consumption of fish from what would otherwise have been available to the fishing fleet, and that is what the Committee says. Nevertheless, as many have said here today, scientific simulations and experience suggest that increasing the output of e.g. qualification will bring economic benefits, and there is something a collective committee points to. What is disunity in this matter is, as previously mentioned, the capture of whites. Others have done well for why this has become a minority and a multiple. The government estimates to use the self-snip quota bonus as a means of increasing the payroll at the fishing level. We've chosen, along with the Center Party, to listen to it like this. Noregs Fiskerlag said at the hearing that self-afraid must not be a bad thing to get quotas in other fisheries, and we have therefore stated that we are sceptical about this instrument. We also say the same thing as the Government: One should have an effort in terms of product development, market development and the kind of things in this industry, and it should not be a substitute for it as a reviewer of traditional subsidies and support for self-afraiding, but rather come in addition. And let me add, it would have to be in addition to the entire fishing industry, and not just for this part of the industry. The representative of Erlend Nornes just said that SV rides two horses in this case. I wonder who it is that rides two horses in this matter. What is the difference between the plural comments and the minority comments in relation to the management of wave selections is that we specifically say that the increase in the quota that the whole Storting wants in wave selection should be based on a proven scientific management strategy. We don't want to start increasing the quota of wave options without doing so. It's not enough for us that one says that because taking out let's say 1,800 animals were viable 20 years ago, it's probably today, as the government says in the message, and as the committee says. It's not enough to say that it'll probably be resilient. We must know as surely as possible that it will be a management that is in line with the principle of ecosystem-based management. That's the only difference between the multiples and the minority. We are some of the people who want us to have a monthly increase in the weighting, but we have to be sure and conduct ourselves in line with the principle that the entire committee agrees that we should base the management of the marine ecosystem – not the management of marine mammals, which someone was harmed to say, but ecosystem-based management. With that, I take up our proposal, and I ask that it be set up against Decision II in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-18-2.ana.ud950e92	The representative of Åsa Elvik has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-18-2.ana.ud950e95	The Christian People's Party is pleased that the Government has presented an offensive big message about Norwegian marine mammals policy, and that the Stortinget joins it today. The message is part of the effort to arrive at ecosystem-based management of our marine resources. This is in line with one of the objectives of the Johannesburg Summit on Sustainable Development in 2002 on ecosystem-based management of our marine resources. Norwegian marine mammals policy is based on the principle of protection and sustainable housing based on scientific advice. The Christian People's Party has agreed with the Government that there should be no access to hunting for sell- or qualitars where there is no leading estimate of the stock size. The major populations of marine mammals are important components of the ecosystem. Greenland soles and wavy whales are the two largest populations of marine mammals in our marine areas, considered biomass. An estimate shows that a population of 85 000 wave waves grazing in the Barents Sea region from April to October consumes 1.8 million tonnes of food. A simulation shows that if the wave population increases with one additional qualification in the Barents Sea, this results in a five-tonne reduction in both herring and cod catches. Preliminary results at an early stage of the modeling indicate that Greenlandic selves may occur as much as 500,000 tonnes of cod in a normal year. The white-sea population of Greenland-Self consists of approx. One-year-old and older animals, 1,83 million, plus an annual production of about 1 %. 330 000 children. This is an example showing that marine mammals have a significant impact on the amount of fish in the ecosystem. It is too important for us to have a more offensive policy in this area. It is great that the Government will allocate a lower limit with correspondingly leading to var-limits for viable populations of the cell and qualications that naturally have fixed expansion in Norwegian waters. The government will work to increase the extraction of wave choices within the IWC framework. If this would prove impossible to achieve over time, the government has said that it can be assessed whether Norway should go in to manage the wave options under the auspices of NAMMCO. The Christian People's Party believes it's a problem that IWC, aside from the main objective of the Convention, and it seems that IWC has not seen the work of the revised management procedure RMP, developed by the Scientific Committee of the IWC. Such an implementation of the RMP would enable the Commission to set allowances for the available stocks. A consensual committee asks the Government today to assess whether the North Atlantic Maritime Animal Commission can be given an active task in the setting of total catch quotas and the allocation of catch quotas between Norway and other countries. In addition, there is a number on the Stortinget today that will ask the Government for advice as soon as possible to increase the annual withdrawal of wave selections significantly compared to the current level, and in line with recommendations from Norwegian researchers. We in the Christian People's Party hope one can increase the quota already for the present year. In order to increase knowledge of other qualitres, the Swedish Government today asks the Swedish Government to consider opening up research catches to other qualitres to facilitate a larger research effort. The Christian People's Party is pleased that the Government will significantly increase the populations of Greenland's Selves compared to the current level in order to bring these populations down to the level that gives them the highest long-term yield, and take action to improve knowledge of the stock size of clappysms. It is positive that the Government will regulate coastal stock growth in order to repair damage to fishing industries, while preserving viable stocks based on scientific advice, and, furthermore, that one will convert support to the self-governing industry to develop its profitability so that more emphasis is placed on product development, further processing and marketing. I am pleased that there is a great deal to be done about the policy of marine mammals in Stortinget, and I would like to take advantage of the opportunity to thank the case-speaker, Lodve Solholm, for a good deal of work and good cooperation in the committee. I discovered that I read a small error in my article. I should have said that the Christian People's Party is pleased that the Government will increase the withdrawal of the populations of Greenland's Selves significantly in relation to today, so that there is no doubt that there is the withdrawal to be increased.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-18-2.ana.ud950e118	Then there should be no doubt about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-18-2.ana.ud950e121	Let me start by correcting a problem in the printed setting, page 11, first column, lines 3 and 4. It's supposed to say: ‘The majority of the Committee, all non-participating members of the Progress Party’ The centre lot is part of the majority that does not wish to allow for the capture of whiting and that is justified by the vote. It's only the Progress Party that wants to open up to it. That's when it's fixed. I would like to say that the big message that has been presented on the management of marine mammals is a good piece of work by the Government. The premises and assessments made through the notification are good. Unfortunately, the conclusion is somewhat withdrawn, but it has helped to rectify the process in the nutrition committee by a more or less unanimous increase. There is reason to commend the rapporteur in particular, who has shown a very strong willingness to build a broad compromise and the willingness to work together in the Committee. This serves the cause, because the government now has a large majority behind it when to press to get an understanding of the positions that the Storting is now taking. I feel quite convinced that it is a satisfied fisheries minister who is going to enforce the decision that is being made here today. The resumption of the whaling at the beginning of the 1990s did not take place without resistance, which should be well known. Of course, there will not be any increase in the output, as added to the setting, either. This will be met with reactions. But in my opinion, the setting is sober, and it determines the need for ecologically sustainable management also of marine mammals. Of course, this should preferably be done through the widest possible international cooperation, but not necessarily at all costs. It is important to facilitate an administration based on what is considered to be ecologically sound, on the basis of the figures presented by the Government itself in the notification, which are also well covered by Norwegian researchers. In a few areas, there is a discrepancy within the Committee. One concerns the introduction of any quota bonus. Like SV, the Center Party does not believe that this is the way to go. The introduction of a quota bonus into traditional fishing industries, if you participate in self-afraid, could, in our opinion, lead to the introduction of fishing vessels that are not suitable for self-afraid, simply to increase their own quotas. Especially in a situation where the economy of the fishing industry is under pressure, both the need to increase quotas and the financial possibilities for equipping the boat for that type of catch will be difficult. Therefore, the Centre Party believes that there are other instruments that are still needed to make it attractive to capture sales and speed up self-afraiding, both economic incentives, market processing and product development. Here it's not the quota that's the problem. In the government, what is mentioned in the communication at this point is also given broad support. It is quite right, as it was said, that there is no great difference between the majority position and the proposal that SV promoted as an alternative to Decision II today. However, when the Committee asks for a new wholesale notification by the autumn of 2008, in my opinion, a rapid increase to an off-take of e.g.: 1800 whales per year do not under any circumstances pose a threat to the population during the period leading to the re-introduction of the Stortinge to a case on the management of marine mammals and may decide on future withdrawals on the basis of a new stock estimate. I think that's all reason to be satisfied with the work done in the nutrition committee, and the decision the Stortinget is going to take today, in relation to a sensible and ecologically sustainable management of marine mammals.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-18-2.ana.ud950e143	I'd probably need half an hour at least, but I'll try to be brief. We're dealing with Innst today. S. No 180, and I have to commend the case rapporteur for his work trying to get a unanimous position on the table. I have to say it is very polite to experience that the Storting is dealing with this matter, and that you are engaged in a debate. It's a completely different level than in 1986. Then there came a phone call from Stortinget's presidency to Norway's Fiskerlag with the message: Get away from Alan and Halvan, who are vases inside the Stortinget! Now one of them has come here and is standing on the pulpit of the Storting, so everything that was done can't have been thrown away. I was elected chairman of the Norwegian Small Quail Prisoner Team in 1984, and left in 1996, so I was there for 12 years. Of course, you shouldn't stay at the history of such a pulpit, but it may be necessary for people to understand that there has been a difficult way forward. I thought in 1984 that this would take 2-3 years, and I didn't know what I was giving up on then. I was a regular fisherman and a regular whaler. Then I suddenly became a politician, and then I ended up here. In 1982 the IWC decided to end all whaling. All commercial whaling should be over! It was not easy to be a fisheries minister at those times. It was a bourgeois government that took reservations against the decision taken in 1982. It said it did not accept this. In 1986 we blocked the West Fjord and put the real sea mammals problem on the scissor map. In 1986 we got a labor party government. It had always been a cross-political agreement, but in 1986 it was not such a cross-political agreement, it was a wall of insensibility and ignorance, so we had to use all these years to make people understand that this matter was important. Sea mammals account for 5.5 million tonnes of commercial fishing fleets in which Norwegian fishermen take out 2.74 million tonnes. So the marine mammals take out twice the commercial fish stock compared to what Norwegian fishermen do. The Walloon Commission was reduced afterwards, because we fought so much up north. We shut down, among others. The Westfjord, and the world's largest hangar ship, was barred. So Gro Harlem Brundtland decided that the Walloon Commission should be reduced. The conclusion of the Wall Island Commission was that we knew too little. Yeah, that's right. It wasn't research. Then the Marine Animal Program was set up, and then you started researching. Whaling was lost. Norwegian researchers agreed. In 1982 it disappeared. We had to spend at least 100 million. I want to research it again. In 1992, the Labour Party government decided that we should continue to operate with this catch, and we should have commercial catch. Norwegian research has been on our side all along. The Norwegian Ministry of Fisheries has unilaterally managed this stock and said that so much and so much we can catch. They've been careful -- they've been very careful -- it's been taken out far less than what we've been able to take out. But after all, we've been fishing. I must commend the Ministry of Fisheries for this. It has not been easy to be the Ministry of Fisheries. Nor has it been easy to be chairman of Norway’s Small Quail Prisoner Team. We've joined the Inuits, Eskimos, Maoris, Indians, and we've always been of the opinion that a dead whale is a dead whale, whether it gets caught by the indigenous population or it gets caught commercially. I therefore have no problem voting for the setting that is on the table today. I agree with the setting, I just wish we had gone a little faster. But after all, there will be a new report of marine mammals in 2008, and then I assume that we have assessed ourselves finished with the IWC, because we started in 1992.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-18-2.ana.ud950e164	The next speaker is the State Council Svein Ludvigsen, who is currently the last recorded speaker. It has been suggested in the debate that the Council of State may be satisfied. It'll show up.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-18-2.ana.ud950e167	I can confirm that it was a satisfied minister who read the position, for marine mammals policy is controversial, and it is a great challenge to deal with it internationally. I record the impatience of the Storting, as several speakers have been in today, and I am happy to note that it is a unanimous nutrition committee that joins the main conclusions. Once the government has invited the Stortinget to discuss the management of the marine mammals, it is, among other things, that. The representatives of Arnesen and Nornes correctly pointed out, important to show the outside world that a total increase is behind the government's policy in this area. It's a responsibility that I think the committee has taken over. The Committee's proposal for a decision is interesting because it points forward, the rapporteur decided. They represent a challenge. The Communication will understand that I share the views and ambitions expressed in the Committee's position, but nevertheless it is appropriate to say that they undoubtedly represent a challenge to deal with in the future. There are international issues not only about being right but also about getting right. But it's a strength to have a total stature behind us when we're going to balance the different points of view and make new decisions. Today we manage wave elections nationally, based on models developed by the IWC Scientific Committee. The government will work to increase the withdrawal within this framework. I am pleased that the Storting agrees with that, but take with me the Stortinget's clear recommendation that it may be necessary to consider managing wave whales in the direction of NAMMCO, if it turns out that it is completely impossible to achieve a rational management of whales within the IWC. I am also pleased that the Storting supports the proposal to move on to ecosystem-based management of living marine resources. However, this is a time-consuming process, first establishing the scientific foundation of an administration based on that principle. The government will build on the basis we have, and take into account new research as it becomes available. Norwegian administration shall at all times be based on the best available knowledge. I take the Committee's impatience very seriously. The Ministry of Fisheries has already been in contact with the Marine Mammal Group of the Institute for Research in order to discuss the research needs arising from the notification and referred to by the Committee in its proposal for a decision. I have noticed that the committee wants research on whales other than whale whales. It will be followed up this year by the launch of a research programme on satellite marking of marine mammals. We start with the numerous jumps, such as The representative of Arnesen mentioned in his statement. In the coming years, we will be implementing similar projects for Greenland-Self, wave whales, fin whales and cephalopods. This research will provide us with more information about the prey of these species. In the case of self-anxiousness, it is not enough to set high allowances. Allowances must also be taken. As long as the market does not function optimally, therefore, some incentives are needed to get more people to engage in self-afraid. I am therefore pleased with the support of the Stortinget to introduce a quota bonus scheme for vessels fishing in combination with self-afraid. I take with me the views that, among other things, The representative, Mr Enoksen, pointed out, and that is that the view expressed by the majority of Stortinges in connection with the notification provides us with the basis for assessing the concrete organisation of the quota bonus system. The government is in favour of extending the self-anguishing season if the industry is interested in it, within the framework of aid for the implementation of the catch. This year, all Norwegian cellists have chosen to go to the Vesteris, where they can catch both poppy and Greenlandic. The reason for this is that the skins of clover are paid significantly better than the skins of Greenland. Coastal management has had a lot of attention in the United Kingdom, and the Government has followed up the recommendations to achieve more efficient coastal management. Coastal quotas are still not being taken and it is a major challenge. We will therefore open up access for foreigners to take part in coastal hunting on condition that the hunt takes place under skillful guidance. This may provide the basis for a niche offer in the tourism industry. It'll be good along the coast. It is very important, however, that such hunting be carried out in reassuring ways. A proposition to Odelstinget on law enforcement to allow foreigners to participate in coastal hunting is now being dealt with in the Stortinget. The Ministry of Fisheries will then carefully evaluate the necessary regulations before we open up such hunting. I am pleased that the Stortinget has agreed to this. Finally, I would like to stress that the Government's management of marine mammals will be sustainable over time and that efforts will be made to create a basis for ecosystem-based management. The government continues to work to gain international understanding of Norway’s marine mammals policy. This is particularly important since Norway is fundamentally dependent on sound principles for the management of marine resources. And last but not least: the best starting point for success is that there is a total collapse and an overall government behind this policy – which I feel we have been confirmed today.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-18-2.ana.ud950e200	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-18-2.ana.ud950e203	I am not going to deceive this consensus that has come about. But I want to ask the Council of State a question with a background in tourist hunting and what he was just in that way. I have to admit first that this is one of the points I've had the biggest problems with, maybe because we haven't been used to this kind of leisure hunt at sea, so it's something new and unknown. When we're in on this, it's because, as the Council of State was in charge, the requirements for those who are going to be here become strict with knowledge of such hunting. I want to ask the Council of State if he sees a great interest in such hunting, and how he thinks this will affect the resistance that we know is against self-anguish beyond the borders of the country. Will this help to moderate this, or will it increase in intensity as a result of such tourist hunting?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-18-2.ana.ud950e208	The President will express some concern about the concept of ‘tourist hunting’, but hopes that it is not the tourists it is to be hunted for.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-18-2.ana.ud950e211	It can be confirmed that we want tourists from domestic and foreign countries to take part in the hunt and that the hunt will take place on a sale. It turns out to be a major challenge to take out the number of coastlines that are necessary and very sound. Then we have to admit that we have to try to find new ways to increase the output. It turns out that the tourism industry sees this as a significant potential. Among other things, we see: in the West, in Sogn and Fjordane, and in More and Romesdal, that this has been significantly developed. A collective travel life here sees possibilities. I do not see that this should provide a basis for increasing resistance to self-anxiety. Rather on the contrary, for a clear premise for such hunting is that people have taken the necessary hunting test – the big game test – so that they are well qualified. This will take place under very arranged conditions. The coastal travel industry sees this as a significant reintroduction, so I am delighted to see this put out in life.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-18-2.ana.ud950e220	I'm glad that the Council of State feels good to have a group of caverns behind when one is going to do what the Storting decides tonight. It's probably right when the Council of State interprets it so that the Storting is a little impatient. Based on the fact that I believe the industry is actually content with the decision that is being made – even though I think we might have thought that we had both fixed our speech and gone a little faster and longer – it might be interesting to see to the right if the Council of State could already think of increasing the quota this year, if not significant, so at least a little bit, so that the industry feels that we are now on the right, that we are on the right track. Would it have been possible to get a redistribution so that the weighting rate increases slightly this year, so that one shows that a real one is on the hook?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-18-2.ana.ud950e227	As I said earlier, I understand the impatience of the Storting, and I share it. So what we have to evaluate is how fast we're going to move forward. I record that several speakers have mentioned 1 800 animals. I don't want to forge future numbers, but this year's quota is 670 animals. A maximum use of RMP, which is ICES's allowance calculation model, can go to the lowest so-called tuning level, 060, and that would mean that we could take out 750 animals, i.e. an increase. Should we go beyond that, I think you have to go through the calculation methods and look at the parameters included in the RMP, it's the original size of the population, the size of the population today, the rate of reproduction of the population and the management objectives of the population. It has to be in place and evaluated before we can possibly talk about numbers in the order of magnitude that many people have had. As I see it, it will be relevant to consider increasing the catch only from next year, as this year we have laid the groundwork for and the industry has been notified that 670 animals are the fishing quota of the year.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-18-2.ana.ud950e238	Since it is so rare for me and the Minister for Fisheries to be so many as in this matter, I will give the Minister for Fisheries a very balanced contribution to this matter – and it is not meant to be a humiliating embrace, just so it is said! The case spokesman said in his post that one thing is to be gathered about the comments in the setting, something else is to be gathered about the implementation. I thought the clarification given by the Council of State in its reply to the representative, Solholm, was very interesting in this way. I've come to realize that one in the industry might think first and foremost that the ratio is now going to be 1,800 animals, because someone has said it's resilient. But I understand that the Council of State in its response to Solholm said that there had to be a little different procedures – and that was actually the most consistent with the minority comments from SV. So I just want to confirm that one thing is how fast a person is going to do it, and another is how to increase the quota on a wave option.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-18-2.ana.ud950e245	I can confirm that I do not see it as if I have received a damp embrace from the representative Elvik – not today either. When it comes to the number of animals in a future quota, I think it's going to be wrong to speculate in numbers. There should be a scientific basis behind it. We've been dealing with the IWC recommendations related to the RMP, where the maximum number of animals will be 750. So we've said in the message, and the Storting said in today's setting, we're going to go a few more rounds with the IWC. If it turns out that we are not getting an impact on the assessments that we think should be based on, we need to assess whether NAMMCO should be taken over. At the same time, we need to consider whether to transform the factors underlying the stock assessment. Research shall be carried out, as the Committee has also pointed out. The sum of this should be the basis for the number of animals that we're going to take out in the future. I take inward the clear ambition expressed by Stortinget in the vote, which has been expressed in the debate here today. It's a guide that we can't get out of. At the same time, we need to balance it with what I have introduced, that managing marine mammals policy internationally is a challenge. It's not always that it gets right, that's right. Adapting the pace is also important in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-18-2.ana.ud950e254	The President notes that there have been no clumsy embraces from any edge. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-18-2.ana.ud950e259	I did not get the time to say it in the meantime, but let it be said that I support the proposal of the Advance Party to harvest all classes of years, including in the case of sales. The only reasonable thing about self-anxiety is to allow for whiting. Although there will be a lot of red blood on white snow – and there's a lot of money in it – Canada has decided that 1 million sales will be killed next year. There'll be a lot of red blood on white snow! Although it's a wool dot, as the receipt is, this is the only sensible thing to reduce the population. If there's a little storm in the ice, there'll be just a lot of white boys leaving at death in shrapnel. So let's not doubt that it makes sense to harvest all classes of years in self-anguish. I will not go this far, but it is also important to harvest the selenium on the coast. We have some areas that are so contaminated with seals and howls that the fish cannot be commercially exploited. We must proceed as soon as possible to the desimilation of the marine populations on the coast. I expect the Ministry of Fisheries to make a proposal on how this should be done. It's not enough to do a shooting test, either for foreigners or for the North. In the past, all fishermen had a gun on board the boat, and they shot the sails. They can't do that anymore, because they have to take a shooting test, and they have to have a big game check. Everyone has to take such a test. I don't think it's necessary. What is most important for fishermen and for these environments is to reduce populations. That's how it evaluates!
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-18-2.ana.ud950e266	I have some doubts about how the Minister for Fisheries' posts should be interpreted. The Committee is reasonably clear in II, where it is said that the annual withdrawal of wave whales will be significantly increased in relation to the current level and in line with the recommendations of Norwegian researchers. No one in the committee believes that the withdrawal of wave whales should not be made in line with the recommendations of the researchers, but I think that the Minister for Fisheries made a good deal of reservations, not least mentioning a level of withdrawals that are very low compared to the large majority in the Committee. International management of this type of population is, of course, arduous. It would be difficult to falsify the position of a majority in the Committee, a position which could break the recommendations made by the IWC and which the Government very quickly also has to decide on, whether it would be possible to include the IWC in an increase in output, or whether more account should be taken of recommendations made by Norwegian researchers, which have also made recommendations in line with the Government’s own announcement of growth, which imply sustainable management at a higher level than today’s withdrawals. It can't happen overnight. No one expects it to happen this year. It is also necessary to provide a market basis for this to happen. However, in my view, the time aspect and the market base are the two main prerequisites for increasing the uptake – much more significant than the recommendations of the IWC. In 1991, when whaling was opened, listening to the IWC and to the international environment, we had not yet had commercial whaling in Norway. I am quite convinced of that. It was only perseverance from the Norwegian authorities that made it possible to open the way for whaling, which means that we are now up on an off-take in the vicinity of 700 animals. I choose to interpret the Minister for Fisheries in the best possible sense, assuming that the majority's decisions and recommendations are followed.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-18-2.ana.ud950e276	I was also a little worried about the Council of State's many reservations when it came to the decision under II. It's good enough to refer to scientific investigations, and I just want to support the representative of Enoxsen when he says that if we had listened to the IWC and not been steadfast and gone alone, we would not have had commercial fishing in Norway today. I want to make the Council of State aware of what the whole committee actually said: ‘The Committee further notes that the Government states that an annual withdrawal of 1800 animals until a new population estimate is submitted [[probably in 2008]] And on the other hand, ‘The Committee has agreed with the Government in this assessment.’ In addition, the majority of the members of the Committee, all outside the SV, say: ‘The majority therefore believe that, in the light of existing scientific knowledge, and of the objective of ecosystem management and market management, the annual withdrawal must be significantly increased until a new stock estimate is reached.’ Then I have to say that an increase of 750 animals from 670 is not a significant increase, although we can well define next year as fast in this context. I understood that the Council of State was not willing to increase the withdrawal already this year, and I understand that to a great extent. Like the representative, Enoksen, I would like to interpret the Council of State in the best possible sense, but I would like to make it clear that the majority consists of at least two government parties represented in the Committee, and of the Labour Party, the Progress Party and the Center Party. It's a pretty strong plural, and I might have expected that the council was a little bit clearer, but he might be able to be.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-18-2.ana.ud950e296	For the sake of order, the President will state that no decision has yet been taken.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-18-2.ana.ud950e299	First of all, what Mr Bastesen has to say about the capture of whiting. The government's attitude has been, as we also explain in the message, that we have not wanted to open up the capture of whitefish. We record that those who buy leather also share the belief that at the moment you should not do so, both because it is not a market for this type of fur, and because you fear that the work done in the market will be destroyed by starting with whitening too early. As far as coastal zones are concerned, I share the concern expressed that, among other things, the problem of cross-compliance further requires a greater number to be taken out. But here's the problem that we haven't been able to take out the quotas that are set. Increasing the catch and having incentives to increase the catch is the right way to go. With regard to the discussion about the number of wave choices in the future, you're right to interpret me in the best sense, in the sense that we're probably sharing the ambition to increase the output. The government itself has stated in its communication that 1 800 animals should be the number that we want to reach in the future. So I explained that within the current system, related to the IWC, it will be possible to increase the number to 750 animals, i.e. an increase of more than 10 pst. That is the first step, and then we need to work together through research and ambitious objectives and from an ecosystem management point of view to understand that we are going to move forward. I don't think it would serve the case if we in Stortinget today were to establish a certain number of animals. But I share the ambitions, and I hear what the Storting clearly says, namely that you confirm the ambition expressed by the Government in the message.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-18-2.ana.ud950e308	The President will note that the ideal of taking everything in the best possible sense also has support in Luther's little catechism, where it is recommended to apologize, speak well and take everything in the best possible sense. It seems to have been practiced by the participants in this debate in an exemplary way. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2825]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-18-2.ana.ud950e326	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that three lines of reply be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-18-2.ana.ud950e335	It is a unanimous committee that is behind the position in this matter, which has a very important impact on itself, and which unfortunately has had the character of being a sort of repetition that we have had for treatment. First, let me just say that there is nothing to suggest that Norwegian fishing operators are slightly less law-abiding than operators in other industries. But this matter has come into focus, and we have to try through all the good forces to put the necessary searchlight on the matter in order to help reduce this so-called recurrence when it comes to dealing with these questions. The focus has again been on fraud in the fishing industry — this time probably illustrated by a TV programme focusing on the issue of discards. Emissions are illegal in Norway, as opposed to, for example, what is taking place under EU fisheries legislation. In addition, we know that we have – and it is claimed that it is happening – illegalities to a large extent in the capture and marketing of fish in the Barents Sea. Some estimate crime to between 100 000 and 200000 tonnes of Norwegian and Russian cod. If this turns out to be true, it's an amount and a crime to an extent that will make any bank bank run here in the capital or elsewhere along the coast appear to be the purest pocket theft. Then we are talking about enough billions of dollars escaped from legal activity, as well as a solid environmental crime, which will be devastating for both management, research teams and the operators in the fishing industry, if the industry is to build up a future and have a long-term horizon. I would like to pay tribute to the Minister for Fisheries, who, after what was allegedly revealed in this TV programme, immediately took the initiative of setting up a so-called draft Commission, which, in my view, has produced a rather heavy and broad report. However, I have recorded that the Norwegian fishing industry organisations claim that there are several aspects of this report that are missing documentation. Now, of course, this report is only so much commented on in the revised national budget, but the Council of State states that proposals for implementing measures that could be addressed by fish fraud will be promoted in the coming year’s budget. But I would like to say to those who are going into the report of the Draft Commission and claim that this is undocumented, that they should be careful about going so high on the track that I have registered that some actors have done. What everyone has to do is take this issue very seriously, and there should be no doubt that the largest Norwegian fishing industry organisations also have to take this issue very seriously. Because we don't have to have a system in this country where we're going to be equipped with surveillance and controllers, whether it's satellite or there's physical personnel on board, that we're going to have a being and an apparatus of controllers around us who are going to watch the actors in the industry to a degree that might be necessary if they don't take this relationship more seriously than I think they've done so far. One thing is that this is financial crime that is destructive to the credibility that this industry has to have. But it's also an environmental crime that is so serious that when we're going to be the forerunner of other nations in this world, we lose our credibility if we're not able to clean up first in our own garden. This must result in the fact that the criminal measures to be carried out on these issues will probably have to be given a completely different and stricter value in the future than what we have seen so far. But these conditions will be presented by the Government in connection with the next year's government budget, and we are probably all looking forward to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-18-2.ana.ud950e357	I would like to state as much as I can, that I perceive the actors in the fishing industry as law-abiding people who are engaged in following laws and regulations, and who see the importance of treating resources in a way that gives future generations of industry a living bread and the population otherwise access to clean and healthy food. I think the actors in the industry are at least as concerned about getting rid of the irregularities as what we are here at Stortinget. No one has earned the benefit of uncultures developing and working without one thinking about the consequences. That is why I think it is good that such proposals are taken up in order to enhance attitudes and to raise awareness of the administrative responsibility that we all have for this important resource. I am also pleased that alternate fisheries ministers have addressed such issues when something has been detected and have addressed the issue in a thorough manner. However, I do not think that the fish fraud phone that was established by the former Greek State Council should have been shut down by the current Council of State. In my opinion, this was a useful measure. At the same time, I see the need to be thorough in dealing with such matters, so that serious and responsible actors in the industry are not wrongly blamed for what may have been caused by errors and irregularities. I see clearly that conditions related to quota and by-catch rules can put fishermen in dilemmas that are not easy to get out of, and that this can produce unintended results in the form of reactions. As politicians, it is our responsibility to find the most effective means and legislation, so as not to create unintended situations. Here, of course, fishermen's organisations must be actively involved in the design so that all possible knowledge can be put at the bottom. As this position shows, there is broad agreement on the measures necessary for the non-destruction of important resources and for the creation of legislation that has this as an important primary objective. Norway must remain at the forefront of international resource management and active control measures. Therefore, it is important that we, literally, celebrate at our own door and act in a way that creates confidence both in the nutritionists and in the world around us. There must be no doubt in the legislation that we do not tolerate economic and environmental crime in any area of the fishing industry, and the penalties must be such that they work in practice. The working party supports this setting and will be an active co-player to keep focus on this important industry and on the framework that will be around this industry in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-18-2.ana.ud950e368	I think it's important, as Bendiks H. Arnesen said, that Norway must be a transitory country when it comes to international work. One of the first things we should do was perhaps to get the EU to have the same administration as Norway when it comes to discarding fish. In Norway, discarding fish is prohibited in the EU. Nevertheless, I would also like to say that we must not bite at everything that is thrown out about Norwegian fishermen and the fishing industry when it comes to environmental crime. It is enough to refer to the famous NRK programme, which is the basis of this proposal, which did not show a single Norwegian boat running with drafts. There were only Icelandic and Spanish boats on display, not one Norwegian boat. We're going to be critical, we're sitting here, we're the manager, we're the big guy and we're the government, but we have to be balanced when we put on the control hat and we go out. Because I think it's right, as the case-speaker said, and also Bendiks H. Arnesen's representative strongly emphasizes that Norwegian fishermen are credible, they're law-abiding citizens of this community. Of course, there are broken vessels in the fishing industry, as it does in all other industries and professional groups, and it is important that we take decisions against those who break the laws. I believe that the best we can do is now to continue working on the matter, and I look forward to the Council of State coming back and providing more information on the measures and assessments of the report in connection with the state budget for next year. I will mention what is stated in this note from the Committee: ‘The Committee considers it natural that the organisations of the fishing industry are actively involved in the follow-up to this work.’ I think it's the most important thing. I think the industry also wants us to bring this to life. She doesn't want to have too many broken cars. One can never get everyone out, we know that. But the industry doesn't want to have them, so it's so important that you attract the organizations. The Committee further wrote: ‘It is also important, in the Committee’s view, that the Ministry establish and implement a quota and by-catch policy that can help to avoid unintended situations of over-fishing/design as a result and that the conversion factor concept is actively used as an instrument in this work.’ I believe it is important that the Council of State and the Government remember this and take it into account in the further work, until we see the decisions that will be put on the table to bring this to life.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-18-2.ana.ud950e383	If there is anyone who thinks that the proposers have not been balanced, I would just quote from the proposal, where it says: ‘One must assume that most operators in the fishing industry, as in other industries, operate within the framework of existing laws and regulations. There is no reason to believe otherwise than that the vast majority of Norwegian fishermen and fish producers are serious practitioners of their profession. Nevertheless, financial crime and environmental crime occur in the fishing industry.» Here I thought that we, as proposers, have balanced just the point that the last speaker was so busy with. I just want to make it clear that we're not talking about fish fraud here, which I think is a stigmatisation of the fishing industry. We are talking about economic crime and environmental crime in the fishing industry, and I think that is a difference. That's what we want to live for. We don't want to live an industry that's cheating. That's not at all what we're talking about. I only take the word to say that I think that the comments to which the case spokesperson has led the committee to join are so good that we have chosen not to promote any minority proposal in this matter. The comments are largely in line with the proposal and with the intention of the proposal. I note that the so-called Draft Commission's recommendations are also in line with what the representatives of the SV have proposed. This does not indicate that we have been particularly intelligent when we have been sitting and writing this proposal, but that these are actions that have been known and that are known. Ergo should have seen them start already in winter, preferably last year, at an earlier time, when one began to notice about this matter. But that was the background for us to make this proposal. There was no opportunism compared to a much-known TV program. It is not entirely mentioned in the proposal, but this is a question of seeing the need to launch new measures, because the measures taken following the decision of the Greek Government, also mentioned in the resolution, have not been sufficient. I note, then, that the Committee has the same intentions as SV, and I note that the so-called Draft Commission has the same intentions and presents them with the same concrete measures as SV. I hope that the Council of State will take this with it when he presents a new orientation in connection with the 2005 budget – I could have wished it had been in the past, but I would rather be together with a co-consultant committee on this – and that new measures will be taken.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-18-2.ana.ud950e396	Document No 8:35 from Åsa Elvik, Bjørn Jacobsen, Hallgeir H. Langeland and Geir-Ketil Hansen to launch additional measures against financial crime and environmental crime in the fishing industry are now annexed to the Protocol. The Ministry of Fisheries has taken important steps for all the proposals proposed in Document No. The 8th proposal. The Committee agrees that Norway must act with sincerity and great concern for the objectives of long-term and sustainable management of living resources in the sea. Since Norway should be a driver of international resource management and control policies, we ourselves must act and live by the objectives we have seen. The Christian People's Party is concerned that we continuously assess whether we are good enough for control measures, in order to ensure the best possible management of fisheries resources. I spoke in response from the Minister for Fisheries to the Committee on Document No. The 8 proposal that an effective resource control depends on the fact that the government’s tool use is not viewed in isolation, but is involved in an interaction with its industry’s own work on good behaviour. Working groups have been set up to look at legislation in relation to practical fishing, where both representatives from the management and industry have taken part. We have noticed that the Ministry of Fisheries will focus on this in the further legislative work. In recent years, enhanced cooperation between control bodies has been a review theme. It has focused on broad cooperation, where one also involves tax authorities in direct action to detect possible irregularities. The Christian People's Party believes it is great that a joint initiative was taken in January 2003, which entered into a comprehensive cooperation agreement on action against illegalities in the fishing industry between the industry's organisations and the control agencies. The introduction of an electronic fishing logbook to facilitate the reporting of fishermen to the authorities will be important. The Christian People's Party believes one should consider taking the right to fish or buy fish first from people who commit crime in this area. We have noticed that the Ministry of Fisheries has made proposals to the Stortinget on the amendment of the Act of Participation, with proposals for the introduction of an ‘infringement fee’, the fee for infringements of fisheries legislation. The Committee believes it is important that the Ministry commits itself to implementing a quota and by-catch policy that can help to avoid unintended over-fishing/design situations as a result, and that the conversion factor approach is actively used as an instrument in this work. I want to give tribute to the Minister for Fisheries for setting up a commission to advise on measures against illegal discards of fish at sea. The report is already ready and the Ministry is fully involved in the evaluation of actions to be undertaken. Finally, I would like to say that most people are doing a good and honest job in the fisheries sector. It is important that the industry is not labeled criminal. One can almost get the impression in some debates. Better control measures will be the best measure to judge the industry, in which case it is likely that those who are engaged in illegal activities will be stopped and no longer destroy those who do honest work.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-18-2.ana.ud950e422	Like those who have spoken before me, I would also like to stress that the vast majority of those who have their profession in the fishing industry are honest and do a real job. But despite this, it is unfortunately not possible to get away from the fact that drafts take place in all ship groups and to a greater or lesser extent in the various cases. According to the revised national budget, the Stortinget will have the opportunity to re-examine this matter when the State budget for 2005 is presented, and the Minister for Fisheries has revised the notice that there will be proposals for action in the context of the 2005 State budget. There is therefore no reason to be particularly long in this round. But I'll be allowed to point out that there are several things that are necessary to do. Firstly, it is necessary to develop systems to distinguish between serious infringements of the rules in place and unsuspecting accidents, which are also referred to in this SV proposal. I also think it is necessary to look further at the development of methods of fishing which, as far as possible, counteract drafts, for example. sorting out small fish during fishing and developing regulatory regimes that also help prevent discards, simply by making drafts unprofitable. This is demanding, and it may not be as easy to see how it should be done, but it is known that the way the regulation is done, unfortunately from time to time forces or leads to drafts. I shall not say ‘forces’ for draft but ‘contains’ drafts. It is also necessary to develop response patterns that are proportionate to the offence, so that the serious infringements are severely punished. Unpredictive accidents, whether in the fishing logbook or in the case of a few kilograms bombing on catches of 20 tonnes, cannot result in as severe reactions as we have seen in some cases, because it seems quite contrary to its purpose, and unfortunately some of the respect for the rules is being broken down among those involved. We'll get back to this case. It is important that action be taken on a broad front, and we expect the proposals to come up next year in the context of the State budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-18-2.ana.ud950e433	Throwing fish is some kind of piggy. Now let's make it solid. But what we watched on TV wasn't Norwegian fishermen throwing fish. It was foreigners. Why did we get upset about it? Why is the Storting upset? We are talking about everyday life in the European Union. You're required to throw fish you don't have a quota. I don't understand the people who think we should be in the European Union, because that's what happens. Those who are in the EU want it like that. But it was not Norwegian fishermen who did it. Norwegian fishermen are the only people who get fined for guessing errors. If you're guessing that you have 30 tons of bees, for example. And then they go and deliver the catch, and there are 40 tons on the weight, and they're fined. If you guess you have 40 tons at the bottom, and then you go and deliver 30 tons, you get a fine too! You've guessed it wrong. It's called environmental crime. The journalists who write about this do not know better. The fisherman who has guessed wrong is hanged on the first page as an environmental criminal. He's guessed it's wrong. It's the catch diary that makes people criminal. It's the code that makes people come first. Then they become criminals. So it's said it's financial crime. Yes, the cod turns blue on its back. The silk gets brown on its back. The udder's going to be white. Yeah, but it's on the banknote, so you pay taxes, and you pay VAT. It's not financial crime. It is a circumvention of the legislation – I agree with that. But there's no one who's stolen anything. The only thing is that it won't be exactly right for the researchers. I agree with that. It's not economic crime in the sense that it's stolen from the community, but it's not cataloged right. I do not think the proposers are properly aware of what they have done. They've made all of them basement rings. But not everyone is. They're honest, sincere and honest people, most of them. There are a few who are involved in economic crime and environmental crime. There's an absolute few, because there's no way. You can't deliver black fish, and it will be catalogued incorrectly. We have some cases, but most of them are real, sincere people.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-18-2.ana.ud950e448	I am glad that we all share today’s view of these issues that most fishermen are honest and honest people. There are people who are out of work, who are engaged in their industry within acceptable ethical and moral standards. Unfortunately, however, the ‘brooded vessel in all clays’, and we note that the fishing industry is unfortunately burdened with matters of such a scale that the reputation of the industry is threatened in relation to both consumers and others who are concerned with the environment, animal health and sustainable management of marine species. I want to underline that we're going to have a zero tolerance on this, whether it's a big or a small boat, whether it's a big or a small catch. Indeed, national and international fisheries resource management is put under daily pressure, not least because of the so-called IUU fishing, ‘illegal, unregulated and unreported’ fishing, which is a significant global problem. I therefore fully agree with the Committee that Norway must act with both sincerity and great credibility at national and international level in promoting the long-term and sustainable management of marine resources. Then we'll have to keep it in order at home. Norway also acts in this way. As Stortinget knows, control of fishing is a significant part of the cost of managing fisheries. I am very concerned that the use of control and resources gives optimum effect, and that reactions and prosecution of infringements have a deterrent effect. The experience is that increased criminal responses, administrative enhancements and better cooperation between different agencies, such as the Directorate of Fisheries, Coast Guard, police and tax authorities, are far better today than before, and results are achieved. We are also constantly working on improving the efficiency of control work, using electronic databases and reporting procedures, as well as on regulations and regulations with which control authorities and fishermen can be comfortable in their day-to-day activities, as have been the case with several speakers. The draft Commission, which I appointed earlier this winter, presented its report on 28 April this year, and it has promoted several measures against illegal discards of the fishing fleet. These are now being followed up in different ways. But it is also worth noting that the Draft Commission believes that we need to concentrate control competence on three resource centres, rather than the current organisation of all regional offices in the Directorate of Fisheries. I am pleased that the representative, Mr Elvik, as one of the rapporteurs, says that she agrees with the proposals that have been put forward. We're also going to get back to this. These are other proposals which are also entirely in line with the proposals in Document No. The 8th proposal. As I said earlier in Stortinget, and which is also explained in the revised national budget, as we presented last week, I will explain the status and measures in this field in the budget proposal for the autumn. I would then like to take on board the status of fisheries minister Gregussen in the United Kingdom in 2001 on illegalities, controls and measures. The Committee states in its position that it is necessary to consider depriving offenders of the right to fish or to buy fish. We have already used such reactions, and we can, and have done so, suspend the right to fish or to buy fish in the first place in serious cases of infringements. It's an instrument that's already in use. With regard to the Committee's comments on, inter alia: Of course, I agree that the quota and by-catch policies must be implemented in such a way as to avoid accidental discards and overfishing situations. On the other hand, I believe that the Committee agrees that the by-catch problem must also take account of the fact that in some cases it is intended to avoid fishing for sub-target fish or endangered species. In other cases, by-catch is part of the allowance regulation under the aggregate quota system. Unfortunately, we have to note that by-catch is one of the main problems or – I say – the driving forces in economic crime and environmental crime as Document No. The 8 takes up. Furthermore, I am not going to go into the specific proposals or other measures that the Ministry of Fisheries has or has taken, since the Committee agrees that we will come back to them in a different context. However, let me finally point to a relationship that the representative Kristiansen also mentioned: the draft Commission, which issued its position shortly ago, estimated the financial scale of the illegalities. There have been significant reactions in the industry. In the Ministry of Fisheries, we cannot guarantee the quality of the information, but I am afraid that the debate on how large this is should derail the debate from what should be the main track, namely that nutritionists must have ethical standards that stop such crime, and, secondly, that the authorities should have such effective control and reactions that it is not even worth trying. This is a problem that the industry is taking seriously, and it is actively working to prevent development from going in the wrong direction. In this way I feel that the industry and the authorities have common interests. But I would also warn against stigmatizing the industry as such.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-18-2.ana.ud950e479	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight. [[See page 2826]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-18-2.ana.ud950e499	Fortunately, we in Norway have been spared the huge oil spills associated with shipwrecks. But internationally, there have been many serious accidents in recent years. Accidents such as those with Exxon Valdez, Erika and Prestige have caused enormous damage to the environment and cleaning work has cost billions of dollars. Several hatches have also caused fish and animal life almost incurable damage, at least damage that will take nature several decades to clean up. Although it has been smaller, it has also been the case here in the country for the last few years. Several of these have at least caused damage to the environment on a local scale. We have also had a good deal of close-ups, including: an engine stop on the speed dial. We also have a number of other examples where we have our very large, serious accidents in relation to the risk of environmentally harmful emissions. In January we saw the tragic accident of the "Rocknes". Of course, on each occasion one must have a main focus on the rescue work and the search for survivors and, if necessary, a lack of them. But it also has to be that we have a device that works so that the damage to the environment at an accident is minimised. In the context of the Rocknes accident, claims have been made that oil protection work started too late and that, for example: The lens was first laid out as the oil had spread over a very large area. It is also claimed that oil bilge and other equipment were obtained from Horten and Stavanger, while the same equipment actually existed near where the accident occurred. It was also claimed that a faster protection of oil would reduce the volume of oil spills monthly. Nevertheless, today we can at least conclude that accidents have had major environmental consequences. Large parts of the beaches in the Bergen area are ingrained. When an accident is first out, it is important that we map the most possible of what has happened, and that we might learn how things have been done, and see if things can be done differently in the future. When it comes to causes and events, information has been found that different public authorities have different facts and that there has been too poor cooperation and communication between the various public authorities. I have previously addressed this issue with the Minister of Industry. I understand that there will be a thorough evaluation of the cooperation and the division of responsibilities between the different agencies. But even when it comes to oil protection, we see that there are different instances inside the image. It is also such that oil protection and oil protection requirements may conflict with the rescue work. So I hope that the Minister of Fisheries will investigate more closely what was done in connection with oil protection, and evaluate whether it is possible to learn something from this accident. Norway has a very long coast. Large parts of this coast are very weather forecast. Therefore, there will always be a danger that a major accident will also affect Norway. This is particularly serious when we talk about transporting oil. Today we all know that there is one as much oil transport to and from Norway. Very much of this traffic is related to the oil and gas installations in Northern Hordeland. Locally, there is a great deal of concern that preparedness should not be good enough. In particular, many wonder that the minister has decided to move the oil warehousing pot from Fedje, which is located in the middle of the entrance to the part of our coast that without comparison has the most calls. It is also without comparison that part of the country where the most oil is transported, and where the danger of accidents is greatest. I can't see that there's a professional basis for moving. But what must be decisive is whether the preparedness is good enough. I want to ask the Minister if the preparedness and, not least, the material situation in this area is now good, even after the deposit in Fedje has been closed. Not only do we have large transports of oil to and from Norway, but everything also indicates that we will have a very large increase in transport along the coast of Norway. No one today fully knows how much oil activity in Northern Russia will be, but there is every reason to believe that the volume will be a whole different from today. We know that there is a great deal of leadership activity in this area, and we know that the United States and Russia have signed an agreement to export very large oil resources from Russia to the United States. We also know that a builder of pipelines to Murman port, and that there are large plans for the deployment of oil from this area. So there's every reason to estimate that the transport of oil along our coast will be multiple compared to what is happening today. If one with Russian eyes looks optimistic about it, one could expect that in a few years, there may be as many as four to five large tankers along the Norwegian coast at any time. Obviously, this will increase the risk of accidents quite a bit. Of course, I expect those boats that want to operate Murmansk and the rest of Northern Russia have an international standard. I don't want to overdramatize, as some people have done, in relation to what kind of boats we're talking about here, but still it's such that with increasing frequency, there's also an increasing risk of accidents. What we'll experience is that larger parts of our coast will now be exposed to a possible accident. There are quite a few examples in the last ten years that boats and towed boats to Northern Russia actually have the beach along the coast of Norway. These wrecks lie along the coast of horror and warning, and not least there is reason to ask the question: what would happen if there was an oil tank that went down? Of course, the most important thing is that we avoid accidents, but it is also important that we have a readiness that is in order if accidents should first be out. That's the background for me to introduce this interpellation -- I want to focus on this issue. I would like to ask the Minister if he thinks we have enough equipment today, if this equipment is available in the right place, and if it is possible to get the equipment forward quickly enough, so that one can actually do a job before the consequences are irrecoverable. That is why the question is: Is the preparedness adequate, or is there the necessary action that needs to be taken? In such a case, what will the Minister do to enable the Storting to take the necessary decisions?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-18-2.ana.ud950e516	Maritime transport is important for Norway and is an environmentally friendly mode of transport. The Government is therefore of the opinion that the objective is to ensure that more freight transport is carried out as a maritime transport, and to mark it as a safe maritime transport. On the other hand, even with unlimited resources and resources, we cannot guard ourselves 100 pst. against the occurrence of accidents. But what I can promise is that the government has a major focus on preventing maritime accidents through measures to improve maritime safety and provide the best possible oil protection protection along the coast. It goes without saying that with a coastline of 83,000 km, it's a challenging and demanding task. The risk picture is characterised by high activity on Sture and Mongstad, an increase in Russian oil transport along the coast of North Norway and an increase in maritime traffic from the Baltic Sea through Skagerrak. The Government shall provide a comprehensive report on Norwegian oil protection preparedness during the autumn of 2004. Here we will undertake an overall assessment of the preventive maritime safety measures and preparedness based on an up-to-date analysis of the environmental risks of shipping. We also need to learn from accidents at sea. Following the accident of «Rocknes», the Swedish Coast Guard Board assesses measures to improve the safety of ship traffic in that area. The coastal body has also carried out an evaluation of the oil protection operation, and we will come back to this in the communication. The increased oil transport in the northern regions naturally occupies enough. We are also closely following this development, and it is already part of the basis of the priorities we have set for maritime safety and preparedness work, which has been at the heart of the Storting on several occasions. I also refer here to budgetary proposals as well as the revised national budget, which have just been presented in the Stortinget. However, oil transport along the Norwegian coast is not new. A significant number of ships and large oil cargoes have been operating in Skagerrak/North Sea for more than 30 years, and we have a significant service related to the West, among others. to Mongstad and Sture, which may be defined as one of the main risk areas. Not a single serious accident have we had with this kind of traffic. Some of the reasons are certain that we make strict demands on maritime safety, there are competent pilots, and there are competent people on the traffic hubs. The prevention work gives a countdown, but the preparedness and availability of equipment are an important part of the safety concept. The representative Akselsen questions what action is being taken to ensure that the Governing Boards have sufficient equipment available. State preparedness for acute pollution is dimensioned and localised on the basis of knowledge about the environmental risks along the coast. Based on the environmental risk and preparedness analysis in 2000/2001, ten new state intermediate depots for coastal oil protection equipment were established. The 15 main depots are about to be upgraded. Of course, many people are concerned about oil protection in their neighbourhood. However, the authorities are responsible for covering the entire coast, as indicated by the inter-pellant. This means that we have to be willing to relocate crews and equipment, despite local counter-conceptions, if thorough risk analysis indicates that it provides a better overall dimensioning of preparedness. It's also at the root of what's done on Fedje. I would also like to remind you that Norwegian oil protection is not to be assessed on the sole basis of the state's resources. Norwegian oil protection is based on an interaction that embraces all resources held by the nation in an acute pollution context, both private, municipal and state resources. For example, oil protection equipment includes the emergency organisation and equipment of oil companies, both offshore and at land terminals. In addition, the entire municipal preparedness comes with the 34 intermunicipal samples against acute pollution. Through international preparedness agreements, Norway may also be assisted by other countries in the event of major maritime accidents, as Norway contributed, at the latest during the Prestige accident in Spain and France. It is important to look at how we exploit and coordinate the available response capacities. The Ministry of Fisheries has taken the initiative to improve coordination and coordination of preparedness between the various actors, including the Defence Agency, the NOFO Emergency Organisation of oil companies, the Federation of Fishermen and the Rescue Company, and in this context we have improved through better coordination of, among others. surveillance of aircraft and satellite in coastal and marine areas. Oil protection is important when accidents occur, but the most important thing is that we avoid accidents. The government has therefore initiated and implemented a number of measures to strengthen maritime safety along the Norwegian coast. In this way, the Coastal Authority has identified emergency ports and coastal sites for use in the event of an acute contamination risk. In addition, emergency cargo equipment is placed along the coast. In order to have a larger space for action, the territorial waters were extended from four to twelve nautical miles from the turn of the year. The extension allows for the control and regulation of ship traffic in a larger geographical area than in the past. But still, the significant part of this fleet goes beyond the territorial limit. The Coastal Authority has established the required territorial waterway navigation managers on the Vardø-Nordic Cape route in order to separate traffic and thereby minimise the risk of accidents. The sailing links mean that dangerous and polluting transports are required to maintain a minimum distance from the coast. A state towing boat stand has been established for North Norway. Furthermore, the Ministry of Fisheries cooperates with the Russian authorities to develop a mutual notification and information system for oil transport from the Barents region, a transport that we foresee will increase significantly in the years ahead. In this context, we need to build a readiness to do so, in which case cooperation with the Russian authorities on oil protection equipment and towing capacity will be included. Four traffic centres have already been established in South Norway – one is open under the direction of this government. In order to monitor oil transport in the northern regions, a traffic centre shall be established for North Norway in Vardø, to be completed in 2007. Until this traffic centre is put into operational operation, monitoring of ship traffic outside North Norway will be ensured through the exploitation of the Coastal Works resources, including: Fat traffic center. But also on the basis of a safety assessment, the government decided not to shut down the central office in Brevik, but to maintain the crew. Once again, we grounded a total assessment. We also have a network for the automatic identification of ships, AIS, along the coast. The system will provide us with a better overview and control of ship traffic. I was visiting the Coastal Station in Haugesund a few days later, and I was there demonstrating the surveillance that is, the control that is in place, over the ships that are along the coast, where they have been, where they have planned to go, and what load they have, and it helps to increase security and preparedness further. Sea safety and coastal oil protection can always be improved. Therefore, a continuous upgrade is in progress. We are well ahead internationally, and both in terms of oil protection and traffic monitoring, Norwegian competence and Norwegian technology are in demand. In the case of the Prestige accident, we assisted with the Norwegian oil protection system and with professional competence. Coastal sites are also well advanced in the development and use of new technologies. These include: a central actor in the development of a common European information system, which will provide us with a better overview of maritime transport with dangerous or polluting loads, not only in Norwegian waters but throughout the EU/EEA waters. And that's part of what we see the importance of, that we can have a comprehensive monitoring of larger sea areas than what is within Norwegian jurisdiction, for example in the Baltic Sea, the North Sea and in the waters northwards. This doesn't mean we can borrow back, even if we see that in many areas we're in the front. We are constantly working on a number of measures to ensure that we have good maritime safety and a well-functioning operational system along the coast. In the notification of oil protection preparedness, I will come back in more detail with an assessment of the oil protection preparedness, including the oil protection operation in connection with the “Rocknes” accident. In such a big message, we are given the opportunity to gather all the threads and from it set the framework for future oil protection, based on the future risk picture. But I would like to stress that in the case of the ‘Rocknes’ accident, I do not want to take an evaluation here and now. I think we should wait for the work of the Coastal Works to begin, and that will provide a good basis for learning from any things we could have done in a better way. But I want to say, as the interpellant was also about, that what first applies is life and health, and then the environment comes. And then we'll see what an evaluation is going to do. I have said earlier in Stortinget that if there is a need to spend longer on the evaluation than we expect today, and that there will be consequences for the ability to deliver the Storing Message during the fall, I will return to Stortinget with it. But I have an ambition to do both parts during the fall.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-18-2.ana.ud950e552	Does the interpellant want the word? - He doesn't.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-18-2.ana.ud950e557	When Stortinget asked for a comprehensive report on the entire oil protection system along the coast, the 'Rocknes' accident was not. Accidents may have updated her preparedness more, and she had a tragic outcome, with many of the crew killed. Today, it's important that we focus on what's going on on oil protection, and the readiness that it's necessary to have if and when there's an accident. Even if you never want an accident to happen, you have to realize that it happens. I live near the place where the accident happened, between Bergen and Sotra, and I saw by my own eyes the day after the boat was lying there. And when I drove over Sotrabrua, I could see for myself that one hadn't started doing anything in relation to the oil protection device or the necessary preparedness for the environment. It is clear that I agree with everyone who says that the most important thing is to fear life, and that it should be done first. But it's possible to do more than one thing at a time. And it's clear that for the islands west of Bergen, there's still a lot of consequences when it comes to both beach zone and birds, which have been created in a ruined environment. So to the question. I am pleased with what has been said, that one should have a thorough evaluation of everything that has happened with regard to «Rocknes». We shall come back to this. In the meantime, however, a state oil depot in Fedje lies in the middle of the seal of the second most trafficked port in all of Northern Europe – with the Sture-Mongstad area and all the tankers that are fully loaded there. So now the Coast Guard has cancelled the rental agreement for the warehouse in Fedje. The tenancy ratio shall end in November of this year and Fedje has been notified of the termination of the crew assigned to operations and standby. And the Fedje spokesman, who is a party colleague of the Council of State, has stated that it is not in any way necessary for a small municipality, with 700 people, to cover the costs of the intermediate depot, as the Minister for Fisheries has said, to be on Fedje. In the situation you're in now, where there's an accident, put down the state oil protection device. People will then be very uncertain whether the state will take this responsibility. Will the Council of State do what is necessary to ensure that a proper supply of oil protection along this part of the coast — as along the rest of the Norwegian coast?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-18-2.ana.ud950e566	It is an important issue that the representative Aksenssen raises, and as the government has announced, they will come back in detail in a big news report on oil protection. As oil exploration and oil production have moved northwards to the coast off North Norway, new challenges have arisen. There is a tough climate in the north, and there are even bigger challenges to any accident. Therefore, the possibility of collecting oil in poor weather is a crucial factor for future oil protection. The Minister for Fisheries pointed out the importance of prevention. I'm glad there's been a towing boat stand for North Norway. I have also noticed cooperation with the authorities in Russia, that this is working to further develop a mutual notification and information system for oil transport in the Barents area. I heard the Minister for Fisheries say that oil protection and tug capacity will be part of the cooperation we have with Russia. When the traffic hub in North Norway is finished, I think we've done a lot to prevent major accidents. The expansion of the territorial waters from the turn of the year, from 4 to 12 nautical miles, gives us a larger space for action. That possibility must be used to extend the control and regulation of ship traffic in a larger area than in the past. It is also very positive that the Coastal Authority has established the required sailing managers in the territorial waters on the route between Vardø and Nordkap. This means that potentially polluting transport must keep a greater distance from the coast. I would like to thank the Minister of Fisheries for a good account, and I look forward to the Government presenting a big message on the subject.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-18-2.ana.ud950e579	I want to say it so that when it comes to oil protection, I think he looks like four arrows. The one debt monitoring – it starts with it. In connection with this, we get to the traffic controllers. It is positive that we now have to open a new traffic centre to monitor the north. The second pillar applies to depot with equipment. It is important that there is a good and good equipment on these depots. It should be the best of the best. I mean, putting the depot down on Fedje might not be wise. I'm not quite saying that either we get it here, or we get it there. I think this is such an important matter in terms of taking care of the environment and our coast in case of an accident, that it is actually a boat – and. That's why I don't think it was a wise decision to deposit the depot on Fadje. The third pillar that I believe is important is the Coast Guard and the Coast Guard, with boats that should be in standby mode so that one can pick up the equipment from the depot and use it. I see it as very important that there is an interaction between the Coast Guard and the Coast Guard, with the boats that are there – and also with private boats that are on standby. The fourth pillar applies to the reactionary state of our system when the accident is out. If it's just one thing to say, practice does master. I think it's important to do good exercises that are realistic and that allow you to make use of your resources. As many have said, we are facing major challenges along the Norwegian coast with regard to the deployment of oil and gas from Russia and the Barents Sea. And as has been said before by others here, it's important. I want to mention a little thing, and that's the agreement we have with the Fischbooträder Association to have a towing capacity. Don't let this become a sleepput! This is to look at as a first aid until we can get better qualified boats to take over any emergency.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-18-2.ana.ud950e592	There are many, especially representatives from the government party, who have been inside, as the Council of State was, what kind of grip an actually has taken to improve oil protection. And it's clear that when it comes to the more specific aspects of it, the Storting will be able to get back to them in the context of the processing of the big message that will fortunately be presented in relation to that question. I have a hope that it can be treated before treating the oil message that has already been provided. But we'll see if that's going to happen. There is no doubt that this is an area where there is a need to coordinate the resources that exist, as in other sectors, and to see if the resources are used efficiently enough. I am aware that what I want to address with the Minister for Fisheries is probably the Minister for Industry, but still: this is essential in relation to what is involved in accident prevention. In the wake of the Rocknes Sea, a notice in the Evening Post revealed that only 15 Norwegian ships are equipped with authorised electronic navigational charts. And it's clear that it's a tool that it's proven to be essential to avoid that kind of tragedy occurring. The question then is, What does the Government do with regard to sewing because several ships have authorised electronic navigational charts? There is no requirement in the form of a law. It might as well be a deal. Incentives may be favoured by the state in order to implement the maps that are already available to you. On Friday I was on a briefing at Landsdelskommando Nord-Norway, on Reitan, who was busy that the horror discussion that we had for a while, that accidents happen because the boats are too bad, was a development that we fortunately got away from. Most of the boats that go along the Norwegian coast today have double hulls. It is not primarily the technical equipment for the boats that is the challenge. The challenge is frequent. The risk increases with frequency. And it's a point for us to point out that one of the consequences of the whole-year oil industry in the Lofoten-Barents Sea says that when it comes to the risk calculation, one can count on a Prestige accident every hundred years with the oil cargo you see along the Norwegian coast. And the big question is, is it acceptable to experience a Prestige accident every hundred years in this area? Of course, it's not, and that's the challenge we have to take in, and that Stortinget gets the opportunity to discuss in connection with the message.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-18-2.ana.ud950e608	For Norway as an oil nation, there is a proper problem with the Olav Akselsen taking up this interpellation when he focuses on oil conservation along the coast. As the Minister for Fisheries pointed out, it is important that we in Norway with a long coast depend on an environmentally friendly mode of transport. We have a goal that more of the transport should be carried out as maritime transport, and it must be as safe as possible. At the same time, I fully agree with the Minister for Fisheries that even with unlimited resources and resources, we cannot guard ourselves against anything. I look forward to this message when it comes to the notification of Norwegian oil protection preparedness, because it will address maritime security measures and preparedness in relation to an up-to-date analysis of the environmental risks of shipping. This is very important. We have long traditions in relation to oil traffic, especially in the North Sea and in Skagerrak. At the same time, we have our pity for big accidents. In the north there is increasing traffic, and the changes in the situation that emerge make it necessary to see if we are prepared for any accidents. I found that, as the Minister for Fisheries suggests, the state’s preparedness to deal with acute pollution is dimensioned and localised on the basis of knowledge of environmental risks along the coast seems to be very sensible. I also believe it is important that we have a holistic approach to what kind of preparedness we should have along the whole coast, with the consequences this may have for the relocation of crews and equipment. The total dimensioning of the standby must be the starting point. I also think it is important that it is not the state alone that should have full primary responsibility for preparedness. It is an interaction that all forces must contribute. We are also unable to escape the important prevention work being carried out. Here the government has created a considerable amount of work. It seems that the Ministry of Fisheries has a very offensive attitude to these issues after taking on the primary responsibility for this important sector work. The measures that have been presented here today seem right. If I were to point to one field in which the ministry could help to advance, it would be the development of a digital map with a view to providing a more precise indication of the danger area in the fairways to ensure the fairs of events and other risks that are now a threat to shipping. We must always focus on improving oil protection. There are constant updates and developments, often with contributions from Norwegian companies offering their expertise and technology. I see that the combined effort will emerge in the warning message about the oil protection equipment coming to the fall.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-18-2.ana.ud950e631	Oil preparedness is a topic that we'll probably never finish debating, because it's probably a fact that this kind of preparedness will never be good enough. Although we all agree that we should strive to get there that we can be satisfied, not least the kind of situations that this type of interpellation refers to, the tragic "Rocknes" loss, an example of the fact that there are a lot of factors that interfere with each other and that can be decisive for what happens. It is not enough, therefore, just to be prepared in line with what the Minister for Fisheries went through in terms of monitoring, in terms of towing capacity and the type of things that are usually part of oil protection. It is also necessary to focus on preventive action to prevent this type of tragic loss that we are talking about here, for example. in the form of good digital charts, and not least that the charts you have are to rely on, that reasons, especially in heavily operated waters, are marked and can be found on these maps. Now the investigation of the "Rocknes" loss will show exactly what has happened, so let's not pre-shoot it here and now. But what has come so far shows that this is a complex image. We need to build up oil protection. We need to allocate enough money to produce good digital charts. The ‘Rocknes’ loss shows, not least, that the proximity to an accident is also crucial. That's why it's important that we have a decentralised base pattern, that we build up under the agencies and institutions that are responsible for coastal rescue operations, and that these too can help in dealing with these kinds of situations. A sniper and the defense were in place in this situation. They were in place a few minutes after the crash had happened. The situation was that those who were on board this boat were barely able to understand what had happened – you did not need a tugboat, it was not a storm that caused you to get up in this situation. It came unannounced to everyone. And the very fact that different instances were close, made you fast in place. This is also crucial in terms of how we think about future oil protection preparedness, that we have a decentralised pattern, and that we are able to look across sectors, so that those with different types of activities at sea can also assist in these types of operations. Then I think about the defense, the rescue company, etc.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-18-2.ana.ud950e643	I have heard the interpellation, and I have heard the Minister for Fisheries speaking from this pulpit. I think it's nice that people have started to care about oil protection along the coast. It's really great that you get involved and that the different political parties are concerned about this. I am very pleased that there will be a message about the oil protection equipment from the Government. As it is today, I do not believe that the Ministry of Fisheries, despite the assurances of the Minister of Fisheries, is fully aware of what this means, but they are well beginning to get the understanding gradually – hopefully. Because they've got a responsibility, but they haven't got five ears with it. The responsibility is absolutely right. As tanker traffic along the coast increases, so does the risk of an accident. The “Rocknes” had happened right outside the front door of the people and in the most crowded waters we have, and it would be thought that the oil protection equipment would be on top. But it wasn't exactly that, when true to be said! I mentioned "Rocknes". Then it's worth mentioning in this room that "Rocknes" went illegally. On the same line as many non-resident vessels going along this coast, the Foreign Law of «Rocknes» was broken. Many ships have breached the Foreign Affairs Act, as they go from port to port with foreign crews who do not have a work permit — as on board ‘Rocknes’ and as on all vessels that go along the Norwegian coast. I'm not talking about EEA boats – no, I'm talking about the other boats that go along the Norwegian coast under foreign flag and with foreign crews without work and residence permits. And we accept that. I myself sit in Odelstinget and pass laws, but these boats go from port to port with crew without work and residence permit and violate Norwegian law every day! I hope this will be mentioned in the communication on oil protection from the Government. I know it's out at the hearing. The regulation of the Foreign Affairs Act shall be amended, but it shall not pass through the Odelstinget. Is the Minister for Fisheries aware that there are 13 departments in charge of oil protection? The Ministry of Fisheries, the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Environment, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Oil and Energy, the Ministry of Transport, the Ministry of Education and Research, the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Social Affairs, the Ministry of Local Affairs and the Ministry of Justice – all these departments must have a word in mind.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-18-2.ana.ud950e654	I would like to thank the Minister and others who have taken part in the debate. I can conclude that the Minister for Fisheries feels comfortable with today's situation. He doesn't want any help from Stortinget in any way to improve the protection of oil along the coast. Of course, I am pleased that all aspects of the ‘Rocknes’ ulukka now will be subject to a thorough investigation. There is a lot of evidence that there was simply an error or a lack of marking that caused the boat to have a base support. When there are errors with the map base, it does not help you with the same kind of map you have on board. These questions will come back to us at a reasonable time, but it is at least important that this type of error is corrected as soon as possible. I understand, of course, that the Minister will not comment on the protection of oil associated with the "Rocknes" uluk as long as it is evaluated, but I expect that we will have a chance to get closer to the problem of the oil message that the Minister has confirmed to come to the fall. Some other problem settings will allow us to come back to them. There is still one problem area I don't feel I've become easily wiser. It is such that the Council of State determines that Mongstad and Sture are the areas of Norway which are most exposed, and where the danger is greater, for an accident. That's where the traffic is greater. Nevertheless, the Minister has weakened the preparedness in this area, by the fact that the oil warehousing pot at Fedje now has actually been put down. In the past it has been said from the Minister's side that it will be replaced by a so-called middle depot. We have now also confirmed that nothing will happen either. We must therefore be able to establish that the preparedness in this area has been weakened. I cannot see that there is any professional basis for this to happen, nor have I received any description of this today. In conclusion, I would like to say that questions relating to the foreign law and how it is practised within the shipping industry are important, but I still feel that there is a bit on the side of what is the theme of my interpellation today.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-18-2.ana.ud950e667	It's been an interesting debate. It confirms the commitment that is on the coast around these issues. But the interpellant is wrong when he draws the conclusion that from my point of view I do not see that we in the Storting and Government have a task in common. There is one issue in the Stortinge in relation to the revised national budget, and a big message has just been notified to enable the Stortinge to take part in these decisions. It is a direct error when it is said not to create a Fdeje intermediate depot. It should be done, and I remind you that this was a matter that, among other things, The majority of the Stortinget, including the Workers' Party, said they were satisfied. In fact, preparedness in this area is being built by moving the depot from Bergen port to Ågotnes, while maintaining an intermediate depot in Fedje. It was said that it was taken into account and felt that it was a satisfactory solution, because it would strengthen preparedness in the area. It must be a misunderstanding to claim that this should be closed as an intermediate depot. It shall be continued as an intermediate depot. Then there is a division of costs between the State and the IUA. This means that it is not Fedje municipality alone to cover a smaller part of the costs that are. However, equipment and transport of preparation and conversion sites are covered within frameworks common to all IUA and all intermediate depots. It is that one cannot assess state preparedness alone. There is only one pillar in a larger emergency building, where the municipal preparedness and action obligation are part of it, where the municipalities have a responsibility and have organised it through 34 intermunicipal emergency regions, where all the municipalities are included. Then there's the private preparedness, which includes a set of arrangements. It is such that around 70 land-based industrial enterprises, including refineries and tankers, receive specific emergency requirements from State pollution control and as a result have their emergency plans. Oil companies on the continental shelf have emergency requirements as a result of the HMS legislation for that sector. For oil activities on Norwegian base, the individual operator company has a standby and an obligation to act. All operators are members of NOFO, who make both material and technical personnel available to companies. In addition, of course, all activities have an emergency pollution preparedness and action obligation as a result of their own activities, and an obligation to provide assistance when the State and the municipalities have to act. The sum of the preparedness is the sum of all the preparedness and response measures included in the municipalities, private and state preparedness.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-18-2.ana.ud950e678	As a result, the interpellation debate is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-18-2.ana.ud950e684	We then go to voting in the cases on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-18-2.ana.ud950e691	In the course of the debate, 17 proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, by Sylvia Brustad on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Progress Party and the Centre Party, 2-4, by Sylvia Brustad on behalf of the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, proposal No. 5, by Sylvia Brustad, on behalf of the Labour Party and the Progress Party, proposal No. 6, by Sylvia Brustad on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Centre Party, proposals No. 7 and 8, by Mr Vaggen Malvik, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, 9 and 10, by Mr Voksdal, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, on the proposals Nos. 11-17, from Ingvild Vaggen Malvik on behalf of the Socialist Left Party We shall first vote on the proposals. 11, 12, 14, 15, 16 and 17, of the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 13 we wait for it because it has to be supported by the Center Party. Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to return to Stortinget with an assessment of the security of supply of the Norwegian power system as a whole, from production to end-user. This assessment shall include evaluations of the following topics:– economic aid measures resulting from high electricity prices– the impact of the Energy Act on resource management, consumers and the environment– the electricity charge as a consumption regulatory and energy policy instrument– congestion due to the structure of the consumer electricity market– security of supply with regard to line breaks– new energy conversion and efficiency policies– the use of multi-annual magazines.’;» Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to set aside 10 million. crowns for the development of competences on bioenergy in the Revised National Budget, in the form of, for example, support for NoBio, ENOVA, Innovation Norway and projects such as the Energiegården and Green Heat and others working for increased use of bioenergy.» Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to draw up a comprehensive plan for the development of wind power in Norway. The levelling process shall not prevent the continuous treatment of individual concessions. The plan will specify how to achieve a target of 5 TWh wind power by 2010.’» Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to take action with a view to making 1 Watt the maximum standard for ‘stand-by-power’ for electrical products.’ Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to carry out a broad review of the Energy Act, and to propose the necessary changes to include environmental objectives in the law and to better manage the fluctuations in the energy price. The law shall be revised in order to facilitate the reduction of dependence on electricity for heating, improve the competitiveness of new renewable energy carriers, increase the potential for sustainable energy planning and conversion, improve security of supply for electricity, reduce market exposure to private consumers and gain control of the wider structural changes that liberalisation has triggered.’;» Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to provide a notification of the implementation of Statnet’s system responsibilities. The notification shall include assessments of the use of the negawatt market, contributions for increased instantaneous power, deliveries from existing backup facilities and contributions to strategically important hydropower generation projects.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-18-2.ana.ud950e772	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 13, of the Socialist Left Party, supported by the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for support schemes to make people less dependent on electricity for heating, similar to those introduced in Sweden. Heating by means of waterborne heat, bioenergy, solar energy and heat pumps must qualify for support schemes when these replace heating by electricity or fossil heating.»
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-18-2.ana.ud950e787	The proposals are then put to the vote. 9 and 10, from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to carry out an investigation and comparison of the framework conditions for the construction and operation of gas power plants in the countries within the EEA territory. The study shall focus, inter alia, on relevant environmental requirements, price levels of raw materials and available economic incentives. The investigation will be submitted in the context of the 2005 State Budget.’.» Proposal No. 10 sounds: It calls on the Government to review security of supply and the balance of power and to propose to facilitate a significant increase in power generation and power, based on the following:– Map the power potential of previously reduced or rejected hydropower projects, re-examine them, and promote a new cause to the Stortinget.– Map the power potential of upgrading and expansion of existing power plants and promote proposals for instruments that can realise this potential.– Develop tax incentives that stimulate increased hydropower generation.– Ensure that technology-neutral instruments are used in the use of possible power generation support schemes.– Provide clear assurances that no stricter emission requirements are to be met in Norway. ‘To ensure that natural gas is made available through state participation in assessments, investigations and financing of natural gas infrastructure.’ – Open for the award of several concessions for the construction of gas power plants based on BAT but without CO2 management requirements.– Strengthen cooperation between Nordic energy authorities, and ensure State networks as a system manager, the necessary instruments to improve exchange mechanisms towards the rest of the world, as well as the necessary instruments to enable them to secure power supplies during critical periods.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-18-2.ana.ud950e827	The proposals are then put to the vote. 7 and 8, from the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party. Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The decision requests the Government to undergo the disposal of multi-yearly magazines. Consideration shall be given to the potential to invest in a larger installed effect in multi-yearly magazines, and proposals are presented to modify the disposal of multi-yearly magazines in order to improve security of supply and provide better and more socio-economic optimum dry-year insurance within an environmentally sound framework.» Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose changes to the types of contracts and delivery obligations to Norwegian private consumers in order to reduce the exposure to price fluctuations on the power exchange and to increase the storage capacity of Norwegian producers in terms of security of supply and socio-economic profitability. The assessment shall be made in the light of the analysis of the structure of the consumer electricity market and the differences between the Norwegian and Swedish retail markets. The changes shall be complementary to other instruments to improve security of supply, such as energy efficiency improvement, conversion to alternative heating and new renewable energy sources.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-18-2.ana.ud950e849	Then take proposal No. 6, from the Workers' Party and the Centre Party, up to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to assess a loan guarantee scheme or other financial instruments for micro and mini-power plant builders.’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-18-2.ana.ud950e864	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 5, from the Workers' Party and the Advance Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests further simplification in the processing of applications for hydropower generation, such as micro and mini-power plants, to be determined by NVE regionally or by local authorities.’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-18-2.ana.ud950e879	Proposals Nos. 2, 3 and 4, from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre Party, are addressed to voting. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘1. The Storting asks the Government for regulatory confirmation that all new buildings over 1000 m2 will be expanded with water-borne heat. Today this applies only to State buildings.2. The Government is asking for a government loan guarantee scheme for the construction of waterborne heat infrastructure as soon as possible.3. The Government asks the Government to draw up a more offensive action plan than the Government has presented for the gradual conversion of heating with oil boilers to heating with new renewable energy sources.4. The government is asking for an action plan for the industrialisation of bioenergy in Norway.5. The Government asks the Government to implement EU Council Directive 2003/30/EC and to put in place a stepping-up plan for the use of biofuels.6. The Government asks the Government to extend the Norwegian State Husbank's support schemes for the installation of water and airborne heat.» Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to take action to ensure the use of energy in waterworks for power generation. Such measures may include technology requirements and support, grant schemes, information campaigns, support for research and development and inclusion in the market for green electricity certificates.’;» Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to submit the necessary legislative proposals for the establishment of a compulsory Norwegian-Swedish certificate market as soon as possible. All installations starting after 2004 and qualifying for it must be eligible under the scheme.»
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-18-2.ana.ud950e916	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Advance Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to carry out a thorough evaluation of the Energy Act, in particular with regard to the disclosure obligation and security of supply, and to return to the Stortinget with any proposals for amendments.’ The President has understood that the Socialist Left will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-18-2.ana.ud950e959	The President assumes that the Advance Party wants to vote against. – It is confirmed.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-18-2.ana.ud950e1047	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1 by Lodve Solholm on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities 2, from Åsa Elvik on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on proposal No. 1 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government, as a testing scheme until 2009, is asked by the Government to allow the whole year-round coughing of Greenland halibut in all ages and waters to examine catch efficiency and to develop and test markets.’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-18-2.ana.ud950e1097	So I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, V, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, V, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I,
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-18-2.ana.ud950e1108	As regards II, an alternative proposal exists, proposal No. 2, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government for advice as soon as possible to develop a strategy for the management of wave-qualifications based on the work of the International Committee on Casualty Catch with the RMP, so that the annual withdrawal of wave-selections can increase monthly compared to the current level, if this can be done in a sustainable manner in line with recommendations from Norwegian researchers.’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-18-2.ana.ud950e1136	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
