ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-23.ana.ud2556e41	The representative of Trine Skei Grande will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-23.ana.ud2556e44	I want to make a proposal on behalf of myself to have the municipalities enforce parental payment in primary school.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-23.ana.ud2556e49	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-23.ana.ud2556e67	Since the interpellation was delivered, inflation is positive 0.1 pst. became deflator of 0,1 pst. The Bank of Norway is far from the operational objective of monetary policy; 2.5 p.m. inflation over two years. Bombs on bombs, wrote today's Business on 19 February about the Central Bank's handling of monetary policy. There are many reasons why Norway's Bank is bombing, and not everything is self-inflicted. Less developed than expected in the international economy and increased imports from low-cost countries have contributed to lower inflation. But we cannot ignore Norway's Bank's own responsibility either. At the interest rate meeting in July 2002, Norway’s Bank chose to raise interest rates by half a percentage point and it was not reduced until the end of October of the same year. But then the accident had already happened. We remember the result, and we're still living with it. The crown course rose and resulted in what Jens Petter Ekorenes called a bloodbath in Norwegian industry. We know today that this year 15 000 jobs were lost, mainly in industry, and very many in the export industry, due to the extraordinary increase in the krone price. How much of this is due to Norway’s Bank’s misassessment of the Norwegian economy, and what is due to a generally high cost level and lack of competitiveness, is difficult to say. However, with ten subsequent interest rates falling, this gives a clear indication of the fallacy of decisions in the summer of 2002. There is reason to fear that Norway’s Bank’s decision was more motivated by a salary settlement Norway’s Bank seemed to be too favourable for the employees than a cool consideration of the Norwegian economy. There is reason to believe that a more rigorous analysis, with emphasis on more conditions in the economy, not least the price of the crown related to the competitive industry, would have to result in a different conclusion. In the section on monetary policy of the National Budget, the Holden II Committee is quoted as follows: «At the same time, the sample would stress that monetary policy must take into account that sustained large-scale exchange rates may involve significant and long-term real economic costs for the competitive sector and subsequently also for the economy as a whole.» The Ministry agrees with these assessments. It can be difficult to see as anything other than a clear correction by the Bank of Norway, which is as late as in Money and Credit No. 3 for 2002 writes: ‘Money policy cannot be used to influence the extent of competitive business over time.’ In other words, the Ministry does not agree with Norway’s Bank’s assessment of its own role. But there's reason to stay a little longer by the same reasoning after the last interest rate meeting. The interest rate was set at 0.25 pst. on the basis of market expectations. It is clear, in particular at the press conference, that Norway’s Bank was not really overly enthusiastic about reducing interest rates, but since they have been instrumental in following their own formulas since the change in mandate, they have had to do so now, but the interest rate was reduced less than expected by the market. Inflation was known to be negative last month, which should have indicated a higher interest rate decrease than 0.25 pst. The bank’s press release after the last interest meeting states: ‘As an alternative, the Governing Board has considered not to change interest rates now and to keep interest rates lower than otherwise. However, the Governing Council did not find it right – after the fall we have seen in inflation – to break marked with expectations in the money and currency markets.» In other words, it was the expectations in the money market and not what was most useful to the nation, which was the decisive factor in the decision taken by the Norwegian Bank's main board of directors. It's this that's the background of this interpolation. There is reason to believe that political signal and political pressure are necessary in order for the Bank of Norway to choose a more flexible approach to its mandate. After three years of inflation targets, we have actually received lower interest rates and lower inflation, but we have also received 110 000 unemployed, large fluctuations in interest rates, exchange rates and price growth and a competitive sector that is struggling. Private consumption and housing prices have – and perhaps naturally – increased steadily, but the question is whether this was the purpose of the policy conversion. A record high unemployment rate that does not drop, deficits at lower interest rates, high private demand and fluctuations in monetary policy, was that what was meant by the conversion of the mandate? Is that what the Norwegian Bank is set to do? The answer to this is a unique no. It's only political authorities that, at the end of the day, can do something about this. It's not like the central bank, although it likes to make it like that, is independent. The central bank is still subject to the Ministry of Finance in Norway, and to remind the Ministry of Finance that the Ministry of Finance is still subject to this room. The effect of ten interest rate reductions has not been expected by the Bank of Norway. Industry is still reluctant to invest, and private consumption is increasing. The danger of a loan-funded purchase party is present, and the beginning of the 1990s is still no longer than that very many of us remember it. And those who have forgotten it should be reminded as soon as possible of what the situation was then, with the loan-funded purchase party very many tried to participate in at that time. Unfortunately, Norway’s Bank has entered an ideological trail that has not been served and therefore needs to be helped out. Norway’s Bank may feel that the relationship with inflation itself is the goal of monetary policy. But just to make it explicitly clear, it's not. It is the real economic situation that counts for the nation, not the absolute objective of inflation. It is employment, i.e. unemployment, production and wealth that are the purpose and aim of policy – not least monetary policy. This is due to the fact that Norway’s Bank still maintains that it is in line with a purely inflation target. So late in the open hearing in Stortingen last autumn in connection with the credit notification, the Governor maintained that there was section 3 of the mandate chosen by the Bank. This means that the three other aspects mentioned in the mandate explicitly – production, employment and not least the exchange rate – choose to disregard the central bank’s board of directors, at least to pay significantly less attention. There is every reason to believe that this is the reason why the major misassessments are buried. The economic horizon is becoming too sluggish, and monetary policy objectives are drowning in a united inflation focus. With a small, open economy, which Norway has — the Norwegian economy is no larger than New Jersey’s, but fortunately we still have our own currency — one cannot put one aspect of the economy alone and ignore other important real economic conditions. It is both illogical and wrong and not least unwise. If there's something that's taught us in the last few years, it's just this. It is essential that monetary, structural, financial and income policies work together, and not least that the authorities understand and emphasise this context. It's always surprising that some for ideological reasons choose to believe something else. Norway is no larger than the fact that it is quite obvious that it is essential for stability and predictability in monetary policy to be played on the ground. This is why I have to take this matter up with the Minister of Finance once again, that no matter how one tries to pretend that there is a division of responsibilities in the economy between authorities, the social partners and the Bank of Norway, the main responsibility lies with this Chamber, the National Assembly of Norway. Claiming otherwise is disclaimer, not division of liability. Norway’s Bank must reconsider its instrumental approach to what they define as an inflation target, but as a matter of fact – given that you read the mandate as it is written – is not. The objectives of inflation are first mentioned in the third paragraph. It is not new that SV believes this. That is what we have been saying since the changeover to monetary policy. I realize that the danger is great that there will not be a change, because it is we who – once again – choose to take it up, and because I know that politics is not just facts, politics is also achievement. But if the Minister of Finance does not choose to lend a loan to SV, I hope that the Minister of Finance chooses to lend a loan to the Director of the Statistical Central Bureau, who in the last economic perspective, published just a few days ago, says in the foreword: ‘When the international bonds and uncertainties related to the evolution of the factors determining price developments in the future are greater than previously assumed, it should be considered that monetary policy inflation management should be made more flexible. In practice, it also needs to be more clearly defined in relation to actual developments abroad, rather than being based on absolute targets set partial for Norway.’» In fact, it is crucial for economic stability and lower unemployment that monetary, structural, financial and income policies work together, which I assume the Minister of Finance will immediately agree with. The reality has turned to the pure inflation management objective.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-23.ana.ud2556e124	Then we'll hear if the Minister of Finance has any ear to borrow!
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-23.ana.ud2556e127	The Norwegian economy has experienced a period of weak economic growth and worsening competitiveness, with higher unemployment as a result. Now, however, we see developments turning around: economic growth is on the rise, competitiveness has improved, and unemployment has stopped. Economic policy is now delivering positive results, and more people can feel secure for their jobs. This development has been made possible because the interaction between fiscal policy, monetary policy and income policy has worked well. In the national budget for this year, the Government referred to the interaction between the different areas as follows: «Budget policy and monetary policy must work together to contribute to a stable development of production and demand... The economic policy guidelines at the same time imply that monetary policy has a clear role to play in stabilising economic development. This means that if the outlook for the economy changes, one should take advantage of the scope of monetary policy action. In addition, situations may arise where an active use of budgetary policy is required either because of the low level of capacity utilisation or because the pressure in the economy is very high.» A tight labour market resulted in strong wage growth in 2002, well above what is compatible with the inflation target. This was five years in a row with a significantly higher wage growth in Norway than in the trading partners. The high wage growth led Norway’s Bank to pursue a tight monetary policy in 2002 by keeping Norwegian interest rates at a high level and clearly above interest rates internationally. Throughout 2003, the Bank of Norway put monetary policy in an expansive direction. The rationale for the reductions in interest rates was among others: related to lower growth in consumer prices than Norway’s Bank had expected, and prospects for weaker growth also in the Norwegian economy. The 2003 budgetary policy was designed to allow a person to take advantage of the scope of action in monetary policy. This has resulted, Norway’s Bank has reduced interest rates by 5 percentage points since December 2002, to 1 pst. At the same time, the crown has weakened with approx. 12 pst. Wage growth was significantly lower in 2003 than in the previous year. This was necessary to pave the way for lower interest rates and a competitive price. Norwegian enterprises live significantly better with the current level of the krone price than with the levels in 2002 and early 2003. As seen, cooperation in income policy has also been successful. The outlook for a moderate wage settlement in 2004 – i.e. the current year – seems good. As I have already pointed out, the Norwegian economy is now characterised by increased growth and optimism. Economic growth and unemployment levels are expected to be higher than when the Government presented the budget in October last year. I show you, among other things: estimates recently submitted by the Central Statistical Office and the Bank of Norway. I have also noticed that the Central Statistical Agency in economic terms said that the stabilisation policy in 2003 was successful. The interaction of economic policies has therefore contributed to a short period of weaker economic growth, compared to previous recessions since the 1970s. As the representative of Djupedal points out, price increases are now at a very low level. Twelve-month growth in consumer prices corrected for taxes and excluding energy products — which measures the underlying price increase — showed a fall of 0.1 pst in February. Inflation has for a long time been reduced, in particular, by the fall in prices of imported consumer goods, a trend such as: is to be seen in the light of the strengthening of the Norwegian krona in 2001 and 2002 and the increasing share of imports from low-cost countries, such as Norway. China. In addition, increased domestic competition has contributed to a reduction in price growth. Low price growth as a result of falling prices of goods we import, or as a result of strong productivity growth, contributes, in isolation, to real income growth and increased well-being. We have a flexible inflation target in monetary policy. This means that interest rates need to balance the stability of production and employment against low and stable inflation. Calling for flexibility in monetary policy is turning open doors. We have a flexible inflation target. Norway’s Bank has clearly underlined that they interpret the regulation as such. In the latest inflation report, they say, for example:\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘Norges Bank has balanced the need to bring inflation back to its objective and the need to avoid that the growth of production may gradually become too strong.’;» The Ministry has also stressed several times in the Stortinget messages that the inflation target is flexible, among other things. in the national budget for the current year and in the last credit notification delivered. Monetary policy is now giving strong impetus to economic development. In this situation, a new, sharp increase in the use of oil money may lead to expectations of higher interest rates in the future, and the krona will once again be able to strengthen itself. Developments in 2001 and 2002 showed the serious consequences for the competitive part of Norwegian business, and thus for the balance of the Norwegian economy. It's important that we learn from these experiences. It is likely that fiscal policies should facilitate healthy development in the Norwegian economy, with high employment and improved competitiveness. Only in this way can we ensure tomorrow's well-being.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-23.ana.ud2556e159	The Minister of Finance was so far predictable, in the sense that there was a summary of the situation in the Norwegian economy from the Ministry of Finance. I think the clarification that we have a flexible monetary policy target is right. It is true that the Ministry of Finance through various publications, not least in the national budget, has stressed that this is how it is understood, as I have also repeatedly said. The problem with this is that it does not feel that way through the Bank of Norway and the way they deal with these issues in their interest rate meetings. In many ways it is a paradoxical situation that we have a mandate for monetary policy that allows for flexibility while it is being practiced orthodox, for example. in the EU has a very orthodox approach, but a flexible practice. As a result, many people with expectations for the euro bank are constantly disappointed, because the EU chooses to place greater emphasis on a whole in the economy than it actually opens up in the mandate of the euro bank. Let me also say that the reason I'm resuming this is because I fear, in particular through the signals that are also given by the Bank of Norway, that you should go further down. Because inflation will remain low over a long period of time, we know that. It was negative last month. Of course, it could be plus 0.1 pst. next time, but in any case, we are miles away from what is the goal of monetary policy. If you're going to follow the instrumental way the bank has so far handled this, you're going to cut interest even more. That would mean that we're soon down to a level of interest that's close to the level of interest Japan has been at, and if you think about Japan for the last 10 to 15 years, one could say that it was just this that was totally destructive to the Japanese economy. So what we need now is not any more interest rates, regardless of whether inflation remains low. What we need is more active use of financial policy, more active use to get out of work, more active use of the many other incentives that the economy can get, not least from Stortinget. Of course, choosing to go further down on interest rates will contribute to increasing demand. But what we're asking is an open question. We want more housing, and housing prices will rise. We will demand more consumer goods, mainly imported from China or the East, which will largely also mean that low inflation will be reinforced. It means that this isn't the instrument to get your hands out of work and make this society go around. It's our job as politicians to get hold of this. But I fear that with the signals given by the Bank of Norway, with such an instrumental approach, one will go further on this line, which will reinforce unfortunate trends in the Norwegian economy. That is why I want very clearly and unequivocally that the central bank emphasises what the Minister of Finance is now saying, because the Minister of Finance clearly says that we have a flexible objective. Saying something else is turning open doors, if I quote the Minister of Finance right. This is a clear signal to the Bank of Norway that they have to transform their practice into a more flexible understanding in line with the reality of the Norwegian economy, and in line with the reality of Norwegian society. We must not go further on this Galerie Norways Bank now has started.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-23.ana.ud2556e166	I understand that the interpellant is satisfied with the way in which the Government defines the mandate of the Norwegian Bank. In view of the fact that this has also been treated extensively on repeated occasions, it is not surprising. I understand that the interpellant believes that Norway's Bank does not practice in line with the Storting's assumptions. It's an opinion I totally disagree with. This may also be the background to the fact that the Storting itself has repeatedly stressed that it is not the Stortinget that maintains the regular implementation of the mandate but that it is left to the Governing Board of the Bank of Norway. I think it takes more than political rhetoric to understand how the money market works nationally and internationally, among other things. as the interpellant had in mind its observations, that expectations in the money market are not a factor relevant to the assessment of the Governing Council. I think that's just a small example among more people in the interpellant's posts that it's wisest to add the implementation to a different body than magnification and government. On previous occasions, the size has been satisfied with the way in which implementation is being tested, or the inter-pellant calls the instrumental approach, of the mandate, namely to subsequently present the assessments in the national budget and credit notification and to have the Storting deal with it appropriately. I understand that you have now chosen to deal with it, among other things. with an open hearing. I think that's very satisfactory, both because you've had an opportunity to test, and because you've had an opportunity to be open about this. I think it is wise to hold such a test model and not bring the main board's regular meetings into debate in Stortinget. I just want to end by saying that I disagree with the inter-pellant approach to using fiscal policy now to stimulate more strongly. Monetary policy gives very strong impetus to growth in economic development. In such a situation, a more expansive fiscal policy, i.e. through budgets, could lead to higher interest expectations in the future, and the krona could once again be strengthened. Past experience shows how devastating it will be for the competitiveness of the part of Norwegian business that competes at home and abroad.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-23.ana.ud2556e177	I would like to refer to the economic policy guidelines put forward by the government of Stoltenberg, which were widely endorsed by a majority on the Grand Duchy and which are still at the root of economic policy. Following these guidelines, the single economic policy should address the following important issues: a stable economic development without undue cyclical impact, a development that is sustainable in the long term in the efficient use of resources both in the private and public sectors; In spite of the fact that economic policy as a whole should pursue common objectives, there is still a need for a division of labour in economic policy. Financial policy shall continue to have a primary responsibility for stabilising economic development, even if monetary policy is to a certain extent to relieve fiscal policy. The guidelines for the use of oil revenues are based on the normal cyclical situation, but in a situation of high activity in the economy budgetary policy should be restrictive, while budgetary policy should help to stimulate the economy in recession. The operational objective of monetary policy is that the annual growth in the consumer price over time is close to 2.5 pst. Although the operational objective of monetary policy is stable and low inflation, monetary policy should also contribute to stable development in production and employment. Income policy cooperation shall contribute to moderate wage making to ensure that we still have a strong competitive sector. A successful economic policy depends on both financial policy, monetary policy and income policy doing their jobs. If policy in one area fails, it will affect the other areas. Disengagement of work divisions would hardly contribute to greater stability and carelessness. Øystein Djupedal is busy with flexibility, and it is important to stress to our fellow Member that the mandate also provides room for flexibility in monetary policy, or, as the Minister of Finance says, that this is to open doors. A certain division of labour in economic policy does not imply a rigid management of inflation in monetary policy. On the contrary, it follows from the monetary policy regulation that inflation management should be flexible. This means that not all emphasis should be placed on achieving the inflation target in the short term. This means that the central bank should also take account of developments in production and employment. This flexibility is also reflected in the operational objective of monetary policy. Inflation shall be close to 2,5 pst. over time, as it is called, what Norway Bank has interpreted as about two years ahead of time. It provides space for periods of deviation from the target if the purpose of stability in production and employment so requires. In addition, the regulation states that inflation should be close to 2.5 pst. It is then clarified that it represents plus/minus 1 pst. around the target. The Labour Party will stress the importance of emphasising the soundness of the monetary policy regulation in the pursuit of monetary policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-23.ana.ud2556e200	The Socialist Left Party appears to believe that the increase in unemployment in recent years is mainly a consequence of the Norwegian monetary policy regime. As with parts of the LO, the Socialist Left Party is thus trying to push under the carpet the fact that strong wage growth over many years in combination with high public consumption created major structural problems for the Norwegian economy. And the Norwegian Bank is in practice made a scapegoat when the pressure in the economy becomes so strong that interest rates have to be set up to hold back. The representative, Djupedal, indicates that the changes in inflation, interest rates and exchange rates have been significant in recent years, suggesting that monetary policy is the problem. However, it is quite obvious to most that the pressure on the labour market resulted in a wage growth in 2002 well above what was compatible with the inflation target. And 2002 was the fifth year in a row with clearly higher pay growth in Norway than in the trading partners. Thus, there were fundamental distortions in the Norwegian economy, not in monetary policy, which led to the need for tightening, with an increase in the interest rate of the Bank of Norway and a marked increase in the exchange rate. On the other hand, the development of interest rates and exchange rates over the past year is very good evidence that the interaction between fiscal policy, income policy and monetary policy has worked well. The strategy chosen by the Government in the fight against unemployment was correct. A tight budget for 2003 provided room for an expansive monetary policy. This was very effective in bringing interest rates and exchange rates back rapidly to an acceptable level for Norwegian industry. At the same time, income policy cooperation has brought wage growth down to a more competitive level. The result of the interaction between fiscal policy, monetary policy and income policy in the last year has thus increased the security of thousands of workers in the competitive sector and the return of optimism to large parts of Norwegian business. Rather, if solutions had been chosen from the left, with more expansionary fiscal policies, so-called active fiscal policies, and increased public expenditure, there is little doubt that the reversal would take longer, with serious consequences for those affected by uncertainty and unemployment. This would be a harmful strategy for business, and it has also made very clear to business in its budgetary policy input. Of course, it is important to discuss monetary policy from time to time, but it is quite clear that there are other and more fundamental issues that are crucial for the development of the Norwegian economy and the Norwegian economy. Keeping in check the use of oil money in the Norwegian mainland economy and limiting the costs of increased sick leave, disability and early retirement are major and fundamental challenges for Norwegian politicians. Public sector expenditure and welfare arrangements must be compatible with the competitiveness of business. It is therefore frightening that the left-hand side seems to believe that the problems in Norway can be solved through a firm grip on monetary policy, ignoring the important and fundamental challenges we face in Norwegian policy in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-23.ana.ud2556e213	More flexible monetary policy, calls for Djupedal. But how, he says nothing about. What is it in today's practice that is not flexible enough to have inflation targets as nominal anchors, which, after all, is the monetary policy practised in large parts of the world? And what would be the consequences if the inflation target of Djupedal were to be more flexible? How does Djupedal think it would be necessary to test the Bank of Norway? The whole point of the system we now have is that you have to be able to verify the results, measure the results afterwards. The more flexible a target is, the more difficult it will be to verify its management. Norway's Bank is an ideological trail that is not served, said the interpellant. The question is, would we be more served with Øystein Djupedal's ideological trail? I think that Øystein Djupedal appears quite historyless when he claims that after three years of inflation, we have had as large a figure in the crown price as we now have. History shows that the krone price has been subjected to pressure under completely different monetary regimes, and that there are many external reasons why we have seen a lot of pressure on the krone price. I think it's a little historyless to say that one and only is due to the inflation target. Although Djupedal cannot predict monthly interest rates, it does not mean that the monetary policy mandate is unclear. The question of the interpellant must be, what would have seemed better? What kind of monetary policy would Øystein Djupedal have led as Minister of Finance in a future government consisting of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV – if the Workers' Party had allowed Djupedal to be Minister of Finance with that kind of attitude? I would like to hear what is the hokuspocus formula of Øystein Djupedal in monetary policy, because it is not very clearly defined, despite the fact that Djupedal has for a long time been a strong critic of monetary policy. I also think it is a serious claim to accuse the bank of taking more account of the expectations of the money market than of what is best for the nation. The Bank practises the inflation target with the flexibility of its mandate. I fully agree with the Minister of Finance that the bank is definitely acting in line with the assumptions of the Stortinget. If Øystein Djupedal believes that the monetary policy pursued in Norway is crazy, yes, then Øystein Djupedal must promote a proposal to change monetary policy instead of making claims that the bank does not practice in line with Storting's assumptions. So no one else has been able to criticise – perhaps with the exception of the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-23.ana.ud2556e224	If you're going to get off a ditch, it's about not giving so much gas that you're going to get right into the opposite ditch. And the monetary policy regime we have today, at least Norway's Bank's interpretation of it, puts us at risk of being in such situations. An excessive share of the responsibility for stabilising economic activity is placed on monetary policy, while it is left in the national budgets. Employment is becoming easily the victim of such a policy, because the framework conditions, both for the competitive sector and the public sector, become so uncertain. And the consequence of the high interest rate we had before the 10 interest rates of the Bank of Norway, was the loss of thousands of jobs. Of course, it was correct and important to bring interest down, but now we see clearly that this has not been enough. Unemployment is breaking down, and we are at risk of experiencing the same thing as some other countries in the West have done: growth without jobs. Investment in industry and the rest of the world is still not at a level that can significantly reduce unemployment. The government's position remains that fiscal policy should not be actively used to get the wheels moving. The Minister of Finance's reluctance to do this is not surprising, but there's reason to remember that it's Right's position, regardless of the economic cycle we have. That is a position that is not economical, but ideological, justified. On the other hand, where we have seen growth, we are on the stock exchange and in the housing market. We now see a steep price rise in the housing market, despite the low price growth in society. It is amazing that the Minister of Finance and the Governor of the Central Bank have not warned more clearly about this development. So we're on our way to the top of the debt in Europe. The average household has a debt that is half the time its disposable income. If that development continues, we will already pass the historical peak level from 1988 to summer. Everyone knows how it went. The combination of high levels of unemployment and high levels of debt is dangerous. We are already seeing a worrying increase in, for example: the number of opening indebtedness negotiations. They've increased by 40 pst. only from January of last year to January of this year. That's pretty dramatic numbers. Although the high level of debt growth would prove to be sustainable at a macro level, developments are now undoubtedly creating new debt victims. It deserves much greater attention and needs to be taken far more seriously than is the case in the political debate today. These are good arguments that we need a more flexible management of monetary policy, where the look is not firmly attached to inflation. We also need to take account of other issues, such as employment and debt growth. There are also good arguments for fiscal policy to play a more active role. The state's muscles have to be used to control the growth where it can give people jobs, and not to blow bubbles.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-23.ana.ud2556e241	It is important and necessary that fiscal, monetary and income policies work together in a good way. In Norway, we are now in a phase where this is really a description of the current situation. If we go back just under two years in time, the high, clear and co-ordinated nature of the business community, and especially from the export industry, the Kronekure is too high. We can't live with this. There must be concrete action here! Our government delivered. A tight budget for 2003 was involved in the fall in interest rates, and thereafter the exchange rate also followed. The result we know is a dollar price and an interest rate that is absolutely competitive. Many feedback from some business people is the best evidence that the setup has worked. The main responsibility of the social partners for income policy lies with the social partners. Both the employers’ and employers’ side has helped to ensure that income policy, which is the third stage of economic policy, now works in a positive way with financial and monetary policy. When the interpellant talks about a unilateral emphasis on inflation in the Central Bank's exercise of the mandate, there is a description that is not correct – on the contrary. The latest inflation report shows that Norway Bank has carried out a balance between the importance of production and employment and the importance of inflation. In the economic perspective of 2003, the Central Statistical Agency concludes that stabilisation policy has been successful through 2003. The recession has probably stopped, they write, and the recession was not particularly deep. It's an important theme the interpellant travels. It is useful and necessary that the Storing take time from time to time to debate these challenges. My conclusion is that the responsible fiscal policy that our government has conducted is successful. He should be passed on. Together with the central bank's exercise of monetary policy and income policy to the social partners, this constitutes an economic policy that holds good attests, among other things. the one from the Statistical Central Bureau that I just mentioned.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-23.ana.ud2556e259	Recently, in economic terms, the Central Statistical Office told us that we have 360 000 people who want to work more here in Norway. Perhaps there are 200,000 more annual jobs in the workforce. It's in case 8 pst. increase. The statistical central agency has previously calculated that 7 pst. the labour force corresponds to the property value of the oil assets. 100 billion kroner a year is after this our ability to earn if all those who want to work are allowed to participate. We have to be able to use our capital strength to pick up this gain and get people work. Then, in the opinion of the Centre Party, we have to have a different economic policy, including a different monetary policy. It must not be such that today's unemployment is acceptable, whether it is called equilibrium leave or anything else. The Ministry’s response to all this criticism is that it is doing better now — but compared with 2002 and 2003, which was the disaster year for Norwegian business. We've had disaster situations that have cost business and society enormously, and the government has the primary responsibility for it. The Progress Party agrees with what has happened. They say it's been worse before. This year has taught us again that there is stability and predictability business needs. It is what contributes best to large and stable value creation and the good optimism that brings positive ring-effects. But it's not stability when Oslo Stock Exchange grows by 100 pst. in one year, the debt of households increases by 10 pst. in one year, oil prices increase by 5 pst. in one month and the price increase is zero, when we aim at 2.5 pst. The growth now measured is consumption driven. Households’ purchasing power is increasing greatly. A solid buy-out party is noticed by those who sell cars, boats, holiday trips and dwellings, while the rise in investment in competitive business is little to boast of. Likely, investments here do not reach the 2000 level. Companies that have lost a lot of their equity at a record high crown price have a hard time getting started, among other things. because banks take much less risk than before. The question whether there is now a very low interest rate for a dangerous amount of gas is difficult to answer, among other things. because there has never been such a massive interest rate reduction as it is now. But it is obvious that this medicine has not helped in unemployment. It has not sufficiently stimulated the creation of value in competitive business. It is very unlikely that today's low interest rate can remain stable for a very long time. In the autumn of 2002, the Central Party promoted proposals to change the practice of monetary policy, as requested by the SV. We have also made proposals to change the rules of action so that fiscal policies can be used more actively to stimulate business and increase investment in infrastructure. Such a policy would prevent the increased unemployment and the reduced participation in employment that we have now received.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-23.ana.ud2556e274	I am pleased with the signals that have come from Stortinget regarding the management of monetary policy. It is emphasised by a majority that flexibility is needed – as the majority already emphasises. I agree. The mandate is not a unique inflation target. It is the practice of the mandate that has been false, unintended or instrumental. This means that in the demanding phase we are now facing – because it is a demanding phase when we already have such a low interest rate, and when we have deflation – monetary policy alone, that is, the management of it by the Bank of Norway, must necessarily reflect more conditions in the economy. It also means, of course, that there is a very great responsibility on Stortinget. How are we going to get the wheels going? How are we going to make sure that we have free hands at work, without starting spirals that are bad for the economy? The main point of this interpellation has been to focus on the context which must necessarily be here and which is formulated in the interpellation text as follows: ‘... it is essential to achieve economic stability and lower unemployment that monetary, structural, financial and income policies work together’. The Minister of Finance has agreed to this, and several of the parties of the Great Britain have agreed. This will mean that there is more responsibility for collapse and government, less responsibility at the Bank of Norway, and that Norway’s Bank must actually take account of the fact that a clean management of inflation, as they have so far chosen to define it, is not correct and is not in line with the assumption of the Storting. That doesn't mean, for example. Siv Jensen was in the mood for the Stortinget to dictate, or in some way have ongoing dialogue with, the Bank of Norway. Norway’s Bank is given operational responsibility for this – of course they are. And Djupedal is not going to drive and tease them in vain about it, but they have to participate and, of course, accept that there is public political interest in this, that there is a public change of words about this, and that big business representatives will have different approaches to this. Thus, monetary policy is not defined by economic policy and as such is not part of the public debate. At that moment, such an important component is not part of the public debate, we are on wild roads. They must, of course, accept to be under a very critical searchlight continuously. The signals given here from a majority of parties, I'm very pleased with. I also expect that Norway’s Bank will focus on this in future assessments of the Governing Council. In economic terms, as I also referred to in my interpellation, the director of the central bank finally says in the foreword – and I think this may be an important reminder to the Grand Council of Ministers of what challenges we are facing: ‘Can we accept a weakening of traditional Norwegian values such as low unemployment and relatively even distribution of income in order to be able to participate effectively in international economic relations, and who will then reap the benefits? Or can the design and implementation of Norwegian economic policies be adapted to these processes so that key common objectives can continue to be achieved?’ I fully agree that this will be a major challenge for the political environment, but then one must also see the whole and not just the fragments of economic policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-23.ana.ud2556e295	I do not think the debate provides any basis for saying that there is broad support for SV's criticism of monetary policy. For they have been alone in bringing it forward – with some scattered glints of connection from the Center Party. What is widely agreed on is the mandate for monetary policy. SV's criticism of the practice of monetary policy, as exercised by the Bank of Norway, has not reached agreement beyond the range of the inter-pellant. I have to say that criticising a practice that is not practised is probably also a relatively weak criticism. The Chief of the Bank of Norway came as late as the year with a reference and used several times the term ‘flexible inflation targets’. So there's nothing new in that particular thing. What gives reason to wonder, if you were to be allowed to speculate a little bit in the future, is what kind of monetary policy a government based on the SV, the Central Party and the Workers' Party will lead. For as far as they have spoken in the debate, the three different points of view are in monetary policy. The working party is in line with the view of the majority of the population. The central party has the strange position that they last gave full support to the mandate for monetary policy in 2001, and now they are in full conflict with the mandate they themselves voted for. It gives an interesting stability. They voted in favour of the rule of action in fiscal policy, and are now the strongest critic of their own in that area. SV has the strange exercise that they agree with the mandate, but disagree with the practice and disagree with the majority also in the view of the practice. It would be exciting to see what kind of policy the sum of these three points of view would give, but it is fortunately long before we will experience it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-23.ana.ud2556e304	The interpellant debate is therefore closed.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-23.ana.ud2556e318	There is much that could be said about the tragic situation in which the Raufoss group has come. However, I will not take advantage of this opportunity – just a few words relating to what this matter is specifically about, namely who should be responsible for past environmental sins. Per. Today we do not know the amount of cleaning up costs that will come. This may be a big problem, but hopefully nature itself will sort this out. What's a big problem, in any case, is that this insecurity makes it difficult to get new activity or to take care of the activity that already exists at previous Raufoss installations. Therefore, it is crucial that we clarify this situation. I'm very happy that a committee today supports that the state should take this responsibility for the future and thus facilitate the situation for those who are trying to get new activity and take care of the activity that is already there. We hope that this clarification will help secure the workplaces in the area. It is also the case that if you look more closely at history, it is at least morally understandable that the state is now taking on responsibility, because during the period of these environmental problems, it was the state that was responsible – this is in a way the activities that have been linked to the state through defence activities. I am therefore pleased that this case now seems to come out of the world. So let's hope that this doesn't mean that there's going to be a huge outlay for the public in the future. Even if it's not part of this, it's so that this could be an environmental disaster in the worst case. It is therefore important that you have a strong monitoring program, so that you can clean it up if you need it. It is also important to have control over the situation so that it does not evolve in such a way that any cleaning-up costs and environmental problems are greater than is necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-23.ana.ud2556e329	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2298]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-23.ana.ud2556e345	At the request of the Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 10 minutes to the Christian People's Party Group and 5 minutes to each of the other parties. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of response be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-23.ana.ud2556e354	The proposal of the Central Party is aimed at eradicating the liabilities of health businesses for 2002 and 2003. The majority of the Committee proposes to reject this proposal, and there are several reasons for it. In the context of the 2004 State Budget, the Government Parties and the Workers' Party agreed to postpone the balance sheet requirement for enterprises until after 2005. This will mean that enterprises will have to deal with a situation of underbalance only after 2005. Before that, the operating deficit will be amortised against the balance sheet. The use of operational credit is in practice related to the ongoing liquidity of health enterprises and therefore does not have a direct link to the operating performance of enterprises, which one can get the impression in Centre Party Document No. Eight proposals. In order to show this, it was among other things. none of the entities that had operational loans at the end of 2002. However, the main argument for rejecting this proposal is that setting up a system in which the Storing is covering the deficits and liabilities of enterprises will undermine the intention of the reform. A major part of the health reform was the establishment of regional health businesses that had responsible governance and that were responsible for the decisions they made during the year, within the framework of enlargement and government. If the Storting goes on and on, covering debts and operating losses, as suggested, this will undermine the whole reform, and one will have a situation with less public health services for the money that we grant for this purpose. The second is that this will be a completely unfair distribution of health resources – the enterprises that have incurred debt will receive the bulk of the cake, while those who relate to the frameworks set up by government and growth will be punished in the next round. This proposal will thus have the same effect as document No. 8 proposals to cover the current operating deficits. It is a proposal that Stortinget has also previously rejected. I am therefore pleased that the Stortinge once again rejects this proposal and in this way is helping to underpin an important reform aimed at providing better health services to the population of the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-23.ana.ud2556e369	It is not new that Stortinget discusses the hospital economy and operating deficits. It's been a decade of practice. While the county council had previously had to recover mainly only deficits in hospital operations, the hospital's operating deficits were now made visible, and health businesses became responsible for their own finances without a «good uncle» coming and cleaning up. The proposers are now proposing a debt cancellation that is a long way from past practice. The justification is a risk of closure and centralisation in all health regions. Both through the budgetary process in the autumn of 2003 and through contacts with regional health businesses, it has been demonstrated that it is very demanding to achieve an operational balance within the limits granted, despite the fact that, through the budgetary agreement, we have provided for a one-year deferral with a balance sheet requirement and, in reality, 850 million. kr more for operation. There was also a significant demand for efficiency improvement for 2004. By amending the ISF share from 1 January 2004 from 60 pst. to 40 pst. now it will not be possible for hospitals to ‘manufacture’ themselves for profit, a situation which has created a more demanding situation. During the visits carried out by the Committee in the health regions, the impression is that hard work is being done to adapt operations to the framework. However, current operations may appear to be underfunded to risk both reductions in patient treatment volume and the need for structural changes, which are not desirable. The working party will deal with this in the ordinary budgetary rounds. We believe that indebtedness is not a proper act, because it does not provide the necessary incentives for responsible financial planning of operations. In addition, debt restructuring will not now have any impact on the operating resources for 2004, although it may have a long-term impact. It is far more important to adapt the appropriations to the operational level we actually want. However, I believe that a mistake that was made at the start of the health reform on 1 January 2002 was that the operation was underfunded. As mentioned earlier, this could be done in the former system, where the county oxygenated and covered the deficit, but not in a system in which health care establishments are fully responsible for their economy. Then I must be allowed to quote from the Progress Party and the comments of the Centre Party on page 2, first column, where it says: ‘These members believe that both the Minister of Health and the majority of Storting must take into account that there is a lack of resources and under-financing of the hospital reform from the first day that has led to the critical situation of health businesses now in.’ This is an eye-catching feature of the Progress Party, which was responsible for both 2002 and 2003, which is the subject of this proposal. In other words, the extensive sub-financing is the responsibility of the Progress Party. So to the proposal on indebtedness. It's just the center party that goes in for this. All other parties believe that any appropriations must be entered in the revised national budget or the annual budget. The working party takes the real economic situation of health businesses seriously, and we have been working on this issue for a while. Our national government stated a few days ago that it is not acceptable for an economy to force closed departments and reduced patient services. Therefore, we will strengthen the health business economy by about 2 billion kroner during 2004 and 2005. We will clarify the final level of appropriations in the revised budget for 2004 and in the State budget for 2005. Strengths must be added to the planned escalation of psychiatry during this period.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-23.ana.ud2556e396	It is tempting to repeat to the last speaker that the Progress Party was in budgetary agreement with the government parties, but when we saw how this worked, we proposed to correct this, as the Labour Party opposed. Let me first be allowed to refute what the Minister of Health says in his letter to the Committee, dated 18 February: ‘I would like to begin by stressing the importance of not undermining one of the basic principles of the business model, namely that it is the administrations of regional health companies that are responsible for implementing the decision of the Stortinge.’ To this end, it is said that regional health enterprises are in no way exempted from health policy governance, as health enterprises seem to believe in many contexts. On the other hand, there was a detailed management from the county municipalities and county committees we were going to leave, but the experience so far unfortunately shows that regional health companies in this field are actually worse than the county committees were in their time in terms of detail management, reporting and bureaucracy. However, a fundamental principle of the business model was that specialised health services should be equivalent in all parts of the country. I believe that health companies do not have the power, and there may be several reasons for that. The main reason why we have been briefed in this way is clearly the narrow operating economy that businesses have had from the first day, which peaks in 2004, where treatment offers are now being cut over a low shoe and health professionals' dismissal, which, of course, must lead to poorer and more diverse services from region to region. I would also like to point out that regional health companies are assigned an order role. I can't see that companies have so far mastered this job in a good enough way. I don't think it's reasonable, even with my critical questions about health companies' problem solving, to put all the criticisms on businesses about the shortcomings that still exist in the hospital reform. In particular, I believe it is wrong to attack health businesses and the reform for the economically problematic year of business. This responsibility must be fully borne by the Ministry of Health and, in particular, by the majority of Storting, which has not sought to provide health businesses and hospitals with an economy which makes it possible to use the capacity of enterprises. Even though the proposers in this document are No. The 8-proposal belongs to a party that was strongly opposed to the hospital reform, there are many relevant arguments for the proposal that we all do well to note. After all, we all have to take inwards that we want a health policy where the waiting time is to be reduced to the minimum, and that all patients with needs are to be treated in due time, we have to accept that this actually costs money – yes, a lot of money. So far in the evolution of the reform, the majority of the Biggest have not wanted to accept this, and that is why we have the problems we are currently facing. My party and I have arranged to replace the regional health companies with a state-owned independent management body, a hospital directorate. We no longer believe that healthcare companies will be able to carry out the task that was intended, which affects the individual hospital and the individual patient. The craft is about to be weakened. In the vote, the Progress Party will not support the proposers for any allocation at this time, but announces that we will come back to this in the revised national budget. On the other hand, we find the reduction in the input-based percentage so serious for hospitals that in the present setting we propose that the percentage should be reduced to 60 pst. unit prices as quickly as possible, so that hospitals must at least be able to benefit from the income the hospitals are able to obtain in the form of increased patient care. Finally, I refer to the proposal included in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-23.ana.ud2556e418	The representative John I. Alvheim has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-23.ana.ud2556e423	In the newspaper for yesterday, 22 March 2004, it was stated on the front page that approx. 7 100 doctors at the state hospitals were the sovereign wage earners, and that the settlement of the last year had ended with nearly 20 p.m. wages and salaries increase. So that's going to be approximately. 100000 kroner in salary increases for each of the approximately 7,000 armies. The funds used for this kind of wage increase are precisely the funds allocated by the Stortinget to health businesses, which are now around 56 billion kroner in total for specialist health services. What was interesting, and which is in stark contrast to that headline, is that in the same newspaper there is a statement that it is about. 15 000 children living with parents with significant mental problems, but there is a shortage of auxiliaries for many of those children to ensure that they are not congested. And when you think about the means that the Stortinge grant could have been targeted precisely for children and young people who suffer from mental problems, either their own or their parents', it's thought-provoking that so much of the funding is going to give them within the health care system that currently has the best pay terms, even better pay terms. I think it is alarming when you hear the argument of the Advance Party for ever more allocations to the specialist health service and the hospital sector, that they are also not more concerned about focusing on that phenomenon. I want to say that once you've had a discussion about the use of funds in underdeveloped countries, and someone takes care of it so that you don't get targeted to help the weakest, it's a parallel to this. It is, of course, a legitimate criticism if unaided resources are not targeted at the population of developing countries, so that they actually help those who need it. However, this kind of focussing must necessarily also be linked to the use of funds towards the specialist healthcare service. For this reason, the Swedish authorities have repeatedly called for the tools for policy-makers to withdraw governance so that the funds allocated are targeted at those areas where priority is to be given. What we have said is that we would like to be able to correct biases in the specialist health service. It may also mean increased appropriations for the service. But then we also have to be sure that those funds are targeting those parts of the business that need the most. We have pointed out that there is a particular need for funding for the psychiatry escalation plan, especially towards children and young people. And the headline in the newspaper confirms that, and there have been many other comments that have confirmed the same thing. When the drug field becomes part of the specialist healthcare service, there is also a need for increased resources to provide an adequate treatment provision to different people with drug dependence who need treatment. We see that different businesses that currently have a funding scheme that does not make it profitable to increase their activity can be affected. I can mention stress disorders as an example. We also saw in the report from the National Audit Office that reoperations of persons with hip disorders are less profitable, and it seems as if this gives priority to initial operations, so it doesn't depend on the patient's condition, but on earnings. Of course, it's a little dangerous way when the patient's condition is going to be in focus. The sum of all of this makes it unnatural for SV to go into the kind of allocation proposals that are now available from the Center Party, without targeting the funds that are granted, so that you ensure that you get something left for it. This means that we will now announce that, in the context of the revised national budget, it will be quite natural for SV to look specifically at increased appropriations, but we will make strict demands on how the funds are used. One type of strict requirement would be to ensure that directors of the various health companies, directors or doctors in already highly paid positions take on a lot of the means we grant, and that instead they target diagnostics and treatment of the patient groups most in need of a lift in terms of the appropriations provided by the Stortinget. Finally, I would like to address the proposal where SV is a co-sponsor. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-23.ana.ud2556e447	The representative of Olav Gunnar Ballo has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-23.ana.ud2556e450	The hospital reform, where the state took over the operation and ownership of hospitals, has continued since the new year 2002, and we are now within the third year. In the last year, the waiting time has been reduced by 16 pst. for those who receive treatment or disposal, and those who still have to wait, wait an average of 30 pst. shorter time than one year ago. In Document No: 8:10 is proposed to reorganize hospitals' debt of up to NOK 3 billion. The Christian People's Party believes that such questions should be dealt with in the ordinary budgetary procedure rather than as a private proposal. Nor should we forget that the health and social budget is the largest item in the state budget, and that at present about 5 billion dollars more will be spent on the specialist services than was the case before the enterprise model was introduced. Today we use approximately NOK 25 000 per person. per capita years and is in third place, according to the United States and Switzerland. There are almost no limits to which services may be developed against various pests. In many ways, this can be seen as an infinite need that will only grow and grow. Rational resource use has therefore forced and should force itself forward. The hospital reform made no promises of enough money for anything. The financial framework has been tighter and our demand has been more effective: the waiting lists had to be reduced and productivity had to rise. And as I went through at the beginning of this post, there have also been clear improvements when this is the case. It is reasonable to believe that, with one of the most expensive healthcare services in the world, we can reduce costs without making the quality of services for each patient worse. Therefore, it would be demoralising to the health regions and health professionals who have tried to lecture, saying that they should be punished for doing the job, if, on the basis of the proposal, everyone is allowed to do a line over their debts. It is also appropriate to recall that the accumulated operating deficit for 2002 and 2003 in healthcare professionals should not be covered until after the balance has been restored, i.e. after 2005. It is also a fact that only parts of the health care providers’ accumulated operating deficits are interest-bearing liabilities. With this Document, No. The 8 proposal will therefore not increase patient treatment capacity, as proposers believe. I would like to agree with the Minister of Health when he says in his letter that it is important not to undermine the ‘basic principles of the business model, namely that the governments of the regional health companies are responsible for implementing the decision of the Stortinge’. Finally, in order to maintain the trust and legitimacy of health professionals in the population, we in the Christian People's Party believe that it is important that one still sees good results from injected resources, simply increasing patient treatment capacity, fewer corridor Asiatic and shorter waiting lists. The Christian People's Party believes that the funds will benefit patients. Unfortunately, they do not.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-23.ana.ud2556e471	I think that this debate has so far been a relatively private experience – as part of the second thing we are now doing around health businesses. It will be in the purest Erasmus Montanus style, where he claimed that since Mother Nile couldn't fly, Mother Nile was a stone. When it is said here that more money for healthcare companies will not give anything more to patient treatment, it is in the same way. I'm a little shocked by the things that have been pronounced here today. Among other things, the representative said that he was pleased that the proposal was rejected. It emphasises something that the undersigned has written in his statement that the majority is ‘more concerned with economic exersis and coercive management of health businesses’ than with facilitating better health care. When the representative Kristoffersen from the Workers' Party says that the hospital's operating deficit and the economy are now being made visible, I have to say that this is precisely what it is not going to be. I would like to draw attention to a report by the Riksrevision which we dealt with in this Chamber well and well a week ago, as among other things. in the case of financial reporting and accounting in health enterprises, where there was strong criticism of health enterprises and the way in which the economy of hospitals and health enterprises can be monitored, and also against the Ministry for the way in which funds were allocated. Therefore, I am disappointed that the government has not delivered the goods that we wanted to be delivered in relation to this proposal – so it got up to the majority how it was assessed. We asked the government to draw up an overview of what was the economic situation including debt, and that, in cooperation with the Government, we could make a debt cancellation, which we felt was necessary. The government has not delivered that item. Instead, they are concerned not to undermine the principles of health enterprise reform. It's going to be "principal rhyme" that really affects patients. We have since one day been concerned with the economy of healthcare companies and with hospital treatment and specialist healthcare treatment for the Norwegian population, even though we opposed the reform of health enterprises. And we are clear on the remark in the setting that the representative Kristoffersen referred to here. We believe that ‘both the Minister of Health and the majority of Storting must take over’ that the lack of ‘resources and underfunding’ has led to a critical situation in health businesses. And I want to add here from the pulpit that the situation will get worse the closer you get to the point of balance where health companies are going to be in an operational balance and have settled their debt situation. What we see now is the pressure in every regional health company to shut down, rationalize and streamline so much that the patient gets injured. The dismissal of many in the field of health must be at the expense of the patient treatment to be provided. So it's said that the waiting time is reduced. Yes, including: The waiting lists have been reduced, but it was a real cleaning up that was about to happen. We have today, among other things: more corridor Asians than ever before. But at the same time, I think there is reason to point out that we, too, who are sitting in the Social Committee of the Stortingen, know far too little about the situation in health businesses, when, among other things, it. that there is no debt in health companies today. Clearly, this is an economic situation that is so difficult that it affects the patient. We have addressed this proposal because we believe that too little money was allocated to the health business and specialist health service in connection with the state budget for this year and also for last year. Then the Labour Party and the Advance Party – according to their respective budgetary commitments – will have to fight over who is responsible. But I think that we now need to give health companies predictability and rapid notice that something will be done with the financial framework. That's what we can do, and that's what we have to do, because we're really the one who's really responsible for the entire economy and operation right now. At least we can no longer do this blackmail game to the county councils. I hope that more people will be able to support the proposal of the Central Party that the Socialist Left Party has supported. I believe that what has been said by both the Labour Party and the Progress Party should ensure that they vote in favour of this proposal today, so that a majority such as ‘bes the Government come back with a broad investigation and case on the economy and situation of the specialist healthcare service in the context of the Revised National Budget’, so that one can ‘ensure and strengthen patients’ needs for emergency preparedness, treatment and rehabilitation’. I agree with SV in what is said about drugs and psychiatry, but there is much more that needs resources here. I would like to address the proposal of the Senterpartiet.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-23.ana.ud2556e495	The representative, Ola D. Glütvold, has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-23.ana.ud2556e498	The main principle of the health reform is that regional health businesses bear the responsibility for implementing the Storting decision. This is not an exemption from political treatment, but it is a responsibility to follow up the political treatment of health enterprises’ framework conditions. A debt rescheduling now will have a number of unfortunate effects. It would undermine the governing authority of regional health enterprises and a reorganisation of accumulated deficits would penalise those undertakings that loyally follow the assumption of the Storting. I want to refer to Innst. S. No 88 for 2003–04 on changes in some chapters of the State budget, including the population’s return for 2003, where the issue is also addressed. That's what it says. ‘The majority of the Committee, the members of the Workers’ Party, the Right, the Socialist Left Party and the Christian People’s Party, indicate that the accumulated operating deficits in the undertakings in 2002 and 2003 should therefore not be covered until after the balance sheet has been restored, i.e. by 2005.» The need for the use of operational credits is primarily linked to the ongoing liquidity of health care enterprises and has no direct link with the operating performance of enterprises, such as: are affected by non-payable costs. In 2002, health enterprises had relatively good liquidity, including: as a result of holiday pay payments paid by counties this year. None of the regional health firms had operational credit at the end of this year, although the operating accounts showed a total deficit of more than 800 million. kr. In 2003 the regional health establishments raised, on a different scale, operational credit loans to cover current operations. The results of the accounts for 2003 have not yet been completed by the administration, so that it is not now clear how much operational credit has been raised by health enterprises by the end of 2003. The regional health establishments are at the end of the budget. S. No 11 for 2003-2004 required to maintain an operational balance in 2005. Migration challenges differ between regional enterprises. I would like to stress the unfortunate fact whether the Storting should intervene in such a situation and forgive debts. The majority of the Committee on Social Affairs has underlined this, and I would like to refer again to the majority comments of the Committee on the Interior. S. No 88 on changes in some chapters of the State budget, including the 2003 public deficit under the Ministry of Health, where it states: ‘The majority will also indicate that the business model is based on a system of responsible directors. A system in which operating losses are remunerated by the Storting will undermine the responsibilities of the undertakings. This will also, where appropriate, reward those undertakings which do not relate to the framework provided by the Storting and thus also undermine the model." In my view, the same arguments can be used to counter exceptional debt cancellations now, as the proposers propose. If the proposal is adopted, those governments and managements who have loyally followed up the framework conditions established by general political authorities will have a fundamental impairment of their governing authority. I would also like to point out in general that the business model is entirely dependent on the fact that there are no cultures in enterprises where there are differing and unequal speculations that established framework conditions will change. Changes to the framework conditions in this case could have the side effect of weakening the authority's regulatory framework, thereby making it more difficult to make the model work in accordance with its intentions. This is precisely why it is also important that the Storting should deal with budgets and framework conditions when the Storting is dealing with budgets and framework conditions, and not on a continuous basis in the course of the year. This will make it virtually impossible for the managers and directors of healthcare companies to do what the Storting asked them to do, and the mission the Storting has given them.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-23.ana.ud2556e526	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-23.ana.ud2556e529	SV agrees with the Council of State that a debt resolution should not be carried out now, but that it should be planned and carried out in the context of a review. We have also been involved in promoting a proposal for a broader review of the health business economy in order to be able to make targeted use of the funds. I want the Council of State's reasons why he does not see it appropriate for the majority, that is, the government parties, to join in this proposal. So I have one more question. It is linked to the essay in the newspaper that I mentioned. When the Council of State sees the wage trend that has been for some groups, especially high-wage groups in health enterprises, does he, with concern, look at this development, because it is not possible to make targeted use of increased appropriations against those groups that need it the most? In that case, how will the Council of State address it in order to prevent this development from continuing?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-23.ana.ud2556e536	It is the Stortingen that has adopted the Health Business Act, and it is the Stortingen that has decided that regional health companies and health companies have the responsibilities of employers in this system. Employers are responsible for negotiating pay and working conditions with the social partners. When the representative, Ballo, talks about politicians taking back the management of hospitals in the context of salary relationships, I have to ask if he intends to take back the employer's responsibility from regional health companies and put it in Stortinget. That would be very little appropriate, to put it mildly. I think it is important to make the responsible ones responsible, also for a development that I think there is reason to ask questions about. And I think there's a special reason to ask questions about a development where you get such growth in medical pay while the doctors go into action where they're going to have the Minister of Health to point out which patients we can't afford to treat.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-23.ana.ud2556e543	I basically agree with the Minister of Health that using debt recovery as an instrument for the hospital economy would now be very unfortunate. I also believe that it is very important that the requirement for a balanced economic operation now set at the end of 2005 remains. This does not mean that Stortinget does not have a responsibility to discuss and deal with the economic situation in the hospitals, but if we are to do so, I think we need to do so by continuously assessing whether the level of funding is correct. There I think the Minister of Health was a little unclear. I think it is important to have an ongoing political debate on whether the level of hospital appropriations is correct, even though hospitals have to deal with budgetary decisions and apply until new decisions are taken. However, a political debate on the level of appropriations in hospitals cannot be prevented.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-23.ana.ud2556e548	Of course, a political debate on the framework conditions for hospitals should not be prevented. It should continue and it should continue on a continuous basis. It is a strength for the sector. However, once the budget has been adopted and the framework conditions have been laid down, the persons responsible should have their place of work in order to implement the arrangements adopted by the Stortinget. If we have an ongoing assessment of the correctness of the framework conditions from the date of their adoption, it becomes a completely impossible task to manage a health company or hospital in that country, because it actually requires a certain predictability from one month to the next in terms of the framework conditions. I therefore believe, as I said in my main post, that the Grand Duchy's assessment of this should be linked to the budget round of the Grand Duchy in the autumn and in the revised national budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-23.ana.ud2556e555	At the outset, the Council of State clarified in its statement that indebtedness is bad. This would include, inter alia: could undermine the management system and weaken the authority. But is it lucky that in the situation we have in our healthcare system today, in the specialist health service and in the hospitals, which other representatives have also been involved here, there is a risk of the discontinuation and weakening of treatment? We know that there is an increase in the number of Corridor Asians, we also know that several health professionals have said that longer waiting lists can now be obtained, and we also know that hospitals have stated that once they have paid holiday money in 2004, they must apply for operational credit for further operations. There can be no predictable and proper situation for a health care service that we should be familiar with. Indebtedness must not be seen as an acceptance of budget excesses, and the Council of State should have taken hold of the high salaries well before and cleaned up in it, if that is the danger. We're not going to have the premiere of such things. Does not the Council of State see that there is a high need for resources in healthcare companies and in specialist health services that should be corrected before serious consequences arise?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-23.ana.ud2556e564	I see that hospitals have a lot of resource needs, and I also see my responsibility to assess the development of hospitals in relation to the tough conversion requirements that hospitals are facing. That's what I'm going to do, and I'm going back to the Storting relative to it. I will clearly maintain that a debt cancellation as proposed by the Central Party today would be to introduce those who have greater accumulated deficits, and to punish those who have loyally followed up the Storting's assumptions. It will be unfortunate and harmful. Therefore, the proposal should not be adopted. I must also remind you that prior to the budget procedure of the Storting there was a thorough review of the economy of the enterprises and an open consultation, where the Stortinge was presented to the companies' own assessment of the framework conditions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-23.ana.ud2556e573	Deleting debt would be to introduce those who run badly, it's been said by several here. Is it not the responsibility of the Minister for Health to ensure that all health businesses are financially sound? Then you can't argue that you're canceling debts, you're giving premiums to those who run badly, and you're punishing those who run well. This is an argument that doesn't hold. Then to the predictable. Does the Minister of Health really think that when the Stortinget has taken its budgetary decision in relation to the allocation of funds to businesses, we leave everything in the year of operation to the enterprises regardless of what proposals they have to make to cut the number of patients? Does the Minister of Health not think that we should be quiet about this? That's never going to happen to the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-23.ana.ud2556e580	I would like to maintain that a system in which operating losses are credited by the Storting will undermine the responsibility of the companies. Here I am on a secure basis in relation to the majority of the Social Committee, who have spoken the same word. So the question of predictability. I do not believe, of course, that at the moment that the Storting has adopted the budget, we should cover our eyes and plugs in our ears and not follow developments. Of course, a dynamic political process must be able to ask questions as well as give corrections and, where appropriate, to adopt other framework conditions. But what I have been trying to point out in all modesty is that if we have a continuous budgetary procedure almost from day one after the framework conditions have been established, it will make impossible the implementation responsibilities of the management and the board of health businesses. It is a great and complex responsibility. It's not a sausage stall you run, it's one of the most complex businesses in Norway's country.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-23.ana.ud2556e588	I noticed that instead of answering my two questions, the Council of State chose to ask a question back – perhaps because of the belief that I did not have the opportunity to answer it. It is not the case that SV wants to determine the salary level of doctors in the staging room. But it is clear that when we see that funds are not targeted at those groups that should have been given priority, and that instead the funds are used as we see here, we believe that it is necessary to take action to improve the management of resources. You can do that in different ways. One is precisely the way we have been involved in proposing a thorough review of the economic situation already in the context of the revised national budget, so that the Storting can decide whether the funds are being used properly. So I asked the Council of State why he might not be involved. Then we just hear from the head of the social committee how it's being argued. If only healthcare companies provide cut-offs for those most at risk, the Storting – on the basis of his reasons – will yield, and then they will receive the appropriations. So you always make sure you keep away from what you could have cut. Does the Council of State not see that there is a dilemma and that it is important to have that review in order to ensure the proper use of funds?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-23.ana.ud2556e597	I was about to say, I thank the representative, Ballo, for the answer. I fully agree that in some areas it is necessary to take fundamental steps to control and target the use of resources. I believe that I have shown this through targeted efforts in cancer treatment and through targeted efforts in mental health, where it has proved necessary to take very strong governance measures to obtain the desired results. But I think it's important that we have an overall and planned approach to this, and that's why I've invited Stortinget to participate in the development of the planning tools contained in the Health Business Act, by getting a comprehensive treatment of them in connection with the state budget for the autumn. In line with the leadership given by the majority of the Social Committee in the budgetary position for 2004, I would like to add to such a broad review in the autumn.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-23.ana.ud2556e604	The chord shift has been completed. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-23.ana.ud2556e609	At the risk of being described as a meeting plague, I still have to take the floor; there are some things I can't let hang in the air here, among other things. the Minister of Health’s statement that a debt cancellation would premise those with the largest accumulated deficit. We ask in our proposal that the Government come back with a proper overview of where the needs are greater, and we said that there should be no budget exceedances that were of such a nature that they should not be premiered. It is also, as pointed out by the representative Alvheim, that it is the Minister for Health who is to ensure that health businesses operate well and properly. I think it's getting a little special when the Minister of Health refers to the consultations we had about the hospital economy, hearings that were conducted and run by the Minister of Health on behalf of health businesses. I think it would have been more interesting if the Minister of Health had come up with the National Audit Office's report on economic governance and financial reporting both from the Department and back from health businesses to departments and sizes, and how we should be able to have an overview and an overview of what is going on. It becomes a bit strange and almost absurd that the highest person responsible in the Norwegian health system warns against and goes out so actively to prevent more resources to a healthcare system that obviously and obviously need more resources. The human and professional resources will try to bring health businesses to bear, but then we have to give them a financial framework, and we are responsible for it. And that's how you push each other in front of you. The Health Minister points out that the majority of the right to speak has adopted the same thing as he says from here. The majority often refer to what the Health Council has written in letters to the Committee. If you drive this form of pushing each other in front of you, it's clear that there's a kind of teflon effect in terms of getting to the core of the matter and taking on what's important. I believe that health – a sound, safe offer that people can feel is what they think it should be – is the most important welfare policy issue we can address. At that time, perhaps there should be greater seriousness in relation to a proposal here to provide resources so that our healthcare system works, instead of, as it is now, providing services, eliminating forms of treatment and laying down staff. This is all the way that the population feels goes at the expense of what they expect to have an offer for whose health is turning the click. Then it's not so strange if it shows up torches over the quite country. I think that at least we should have a better decision-making basis than what we have had here, where it is said that you have no debt, and that it will only undermine performance and authority if you now try to provide better health care in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-23.ana.ud2556e624	I just feel the need to link a few small comments to that conversation, I would almost say, which was between the Minister of Health and Olav Gunnar Ballo. Among other things, the representative Ballo showed that only healthcare companies are submitting an emergency list, the Progress Party will immediately be on the track to cover that part and vote against a change. That's not what this is about. The question, among other things: The representative Alvheim asked the Minister for Health, whether we should be able to discuss health policy outside the two regular budgetary procedures, and it has nothing to do with the representative of Ballo. The SV’s representative has also been in favour of eartaging and is concerned about the medical fees. There I think the Minister of Health gave an excellent answer. I would just like to refer to the changes that SV has now also made, which was the most desirable designation for increasing patient treatment, namely the unit-price funding share that was previously 60 pst. and that is now reduced to 40 pst. In fact, a larger framework funding can be returned and thus more funds can be used, for example. pay and less for patient treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-23.ana.ud2556e633	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-23.ana.ud2556e646	The store is ready to go to voting in the cases on today's map. There is no voting theme in case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-23.ana.ud2556e669	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Olav Gunnar Ballo on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, proposal No. 2 by John I. Alvheim on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities 3, from Ola D. Incense on behalf of the Centre Party It is first replaced by alternative between the setting and proposal No. Three, from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests the Government to make proposals as soon as possible to the Grand Duchy on the recovery of debt incurred by health enterprises for 2002 and 2003 within a framework of 3 billion. crowns.’» The Committee had ceased: Document No 8:10 [[2003-2004]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-23.ana.ud2556e700	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to change the percentage of hospital input-based funding back to 60 per cent.’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-23.ana.ud2556e717	I voted wrong. I should have voted against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-23.ana.ud2556e724	The number of votes to 88 shall then be directed against the proposal and 15 against it. The proposal has thus been rejected. It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 1, from the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for a comprehensive investigation into the economy and the situation of the specialist health service in the context of the Revised National Budget for 2004 so that the necessary appropriations can be made to ensure and strengthen patients’ needs for emergency preparedness, treatment and rehabilitation.’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-23.ana.ud2556e748	There is no record.
