ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25.ana.ud2414e44	The representatives Vidar Bjørnstad and Ivar Østberg, who have been on leave, have again taken their seats. The called alternate of the Akershu County, Christian Holm, has taken the seat. From 25 November to 1 December to take part in a conference of parliamentarians on the WTO under the auspices of the Interparliamentary Union and the European Parliament, in Brussels, and, on behalf of the Interparliamentary Union, make statements on the Middle East situation in the UN General Assembly in New York. That application is proposed to be examined immediately and to be accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. From the first alternate of the Rogaland County, Inger Lise Aarrestad, there is an application to be exempted from meeting in Stortinget under the leave of the representative Finn Martin Vallersnes, for welfare reasons. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The application shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The Vara representative, Elin Schanche, is called to meet during the leave period.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25.ana.ud2414e82	Elin Schanche is present and will take the seat. At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 1 to 4 is treated as a whole. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25.ana.ud2414e128	At the request of the Finance Committee, the President will propose that the debate be held over one day, with a total speaking time of 4 hours and 5 minutes, excluding lines and three-minute posts, and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: the Working Party 65 minutes, Right 55 minutes, the Advance Party 35 minutes, the Socialist Left Party 35 minutes, the Christian People's Party 30 minutes, the Central Party 15 minutes, the Left 5 minutes and the Coastal Party 5 minutes. In addition, the representative Simonsen shall be given a speaking time of up to 5 minutes. It is proposed that there should be five lines in reply to the speeches by the main speakers of the political groups, the parliamentary leaders, the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance, and three lines in response to speakers with 10 minutes of speaking time or more, as well as to the speeches by other government councils, within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25.ana.ud2414e137	On 6 October, the Bondevik Government presented its draft State budget for 2005. According to Section 19 of the Rules of Procedure, the Financial Committee shall, by 20 November at the latest, give its opinion on the national budget, the State budget and the suspension of taxes and levies and framework grants to municipalities and counties. The Financial Committee gave its opinion on 19 November, and I would like to commend the Committee once again for its focused and constructive work. In its alternative budget, the Progress Party has prioritised a better social profile through tax relief to most people, better health and care provision, better framework conditions for Norwegian competitive business, crime prevention, better municipal economy and road investment. The main economic policy objective of the Progress Party is to increase well-being through higher economic growth. To achieve this, economic policy needs to be transformed. Economic growth is promoted by policies that stimulate us to work and by policies that increase productivity. Productivity is increased by facilitating increased investment in the Norwegian economy and by making more efficient use of available capital and labour. The Progress Party therefore proposes significant reductions in tax rates, much better framework conditions for private business, reduced subsidies, increased State investment, among others. road construction and other infrastructure and public sector efficiency. We propose an energy policy that ensures stable access to power at competitive prices, a labour market policy that ensures flexibility and conversion, a research policy that creates the prerequisites for new value creation, and an education policy that gives us an internationally competitive education system. Saving our formidable wealth in the form of oil revenues has no value in itself. The point must be that we provide maximum value creation now and in the future. The basis for this is responsible investment and competitive framework conditions. Oil money is actually income in line with other income from Norwegian production. The special thing about oil revenue is the high rate of return on the resources we put in. Most of Norway's oil revenues are due to the country. The State budget is expected to go with a surplus of DKK 170 billion in 2005. This is one and only oil money – the people's own property. Then we'll hear that this must be saved for future generations. For a country, there are several ways to save. Saving is not just getting interest on the money. Saving is also investing in capital and human capital. It is equally important for future generations that we have good infrastructure, a good health care, an effective society that provides us with the services we need to have a well-functioning everyday life. Saving for a country is about total national wealth. Increasing the growth capacity of the economy contributes to higher national wealth. That is why the Progress Party proposes to reduce some of the formidable profits of SEK 170 billion and instead to invest some of it in tax relief and road construction, which will benefit us all both now and in the future. But the Progress Party also cuts public spending, because we believe the state spends billions of dollars on tasks that others can do better and cheaper. In our alternative state budget, we have proposed the following main action: a better social profile. It does not increase the proportion of the health sector, does not increase the value added tax, increases tax relief with a more social profile than originally provided by the Government, increases the level of the credit card, applies the minimum deduction also to pensioners, and increases the special deduction for age and disability. We propose increasing health and care spending through increased intervention-driven funding of health services, lower self-esteem, new jobs in the care sector, and a release of the balance requirement for health businesses. Intervention-driven funding is important because such a system rewards hospitals for treating patients, not punishing them by reducing the amount of money they spend every time you treat a new patient. We propose to reduce the electricity charge, the car charge, the alcohol charge, the inheritance fee, the document fee and the property tax. We propose a strong increase in road investment, road maintenance and race protection. We are proposing a strong commitment to combating crime through increased appropriations for the police, the prison system and the courts. We propose strengthening the Research Fund, extending the Seed Fund scheme, extending the TaxFUNN scheme, the statutory net pay system for seafarers, continuing the rules of leave and reducing employer responsibility to three days of leave. And we are proposing a massive increase in transfers to the municipalities. But the Progress Party does not have a majority in Stortinget alone. That is why we were in favour of negotiating with the government parties on the state budget with a view to achieving improvements that are important to the Progress Party. Everyone knows that negotiations are about tough priorities, and we took them. The Progress Party would have a more social profile of tax relief. That's what we got. We would prevent increased propensities. That's what we got. We wanted the time to bet on the fight against crime. That's what we got. We wanted to improve the local economy. That's what we got. We would increase the input-based funding of the health care system. That's what we got. In addition, we increased transfers to healthcare companies by a further 500 million. kr. We wanted to strengthen the investment effort on highways. That's what we got. We wanted to ensure that the business and employees had good permeability rules. That's what we got. We wanted a seed fund for Stavanger. That's what we got. We wanted to continue the loan scheme for school construction, so that municipalities can continue the important work of maintaining all the country's schools. And that's what we got. We were also able to establish a similar system for church buildings, which in fact means that we now have the opportunity to initiate the important maintenance of many of the magnificent church buildings we have around the country, which actually also represent an important part of Norwegian cultural heritage. We wanted to expand the tax FUNN scheme. That's what we got. We get a review of all the excise duties we have in Norway. We get a review of VAT legislation for non-governmental organisations. We even got to bet on ship protection, which is an important part of our cultural history. But we didn't get anything done, and of course I'm sorry about that. I am sorry that the general rate of VAT goes up next year, but in return I am very happy that the food tax goes down. It is at least a social contribution to all those who have large household budgets and little to walk with. I am also sorry that we did not increase the special deduction for pensioners. But I would like to remind you that the last Progress Party negotiated a budgetary settlement, we got the hole in the very unfair coordination of pensions for married and cohabiting pensioners. This meant an increase over several years, which will continue in 2005. Of course, I would like the entire alternative budget of the Progress Party to be adopted, but I am proud of what we have managed to achieve. NOK 7 billion has been transferred to, in addition to the fact that the change in the input-driven financing also involves a redistribution of well over NOK 6 billion. Overall, this implies a budget for next year with a much better social profile than the government had proposed. Most people are satisfied with the results. There's reason to be proud of that. But I expect, of course, that the socialists in this Chamber will present criticism – with indignation, probably – during this debate. Probably they would have been able to criticize us if we had then negotiated the Workers' Party's own alternative state budget. When the state budget was presented, the Workers' Party quickly spent many media billions in the first few days – but it was on TV. Several of the proposals they then launched are not found in their alternative budget. For example, we read: in the paper that the Labour Party thought it was time to reduce alcohol taxes — but they have not suggested that. In its comments on the budget agreement, the Labour Party writes that: ‘The tax regime profile remains unsocial because those with high incomes receive relatively much more in tax relief than those with low and medium incomes. These members’ – i.e. the Workers’ Party – ‘have a tax arrangement that does not involve the favouring of highly paid workers but provides tax relief for employees with ordinary income’. The working party has to claim this, but it's wrong. In relation to 363 kroner in tax bills, the working party will give you 110 000 kroner, and 6 837 kroner to a person who makes 1.2 million. kr. This means that the Workers' Party provides the most tax relief to the highly paid and least taxed workers with ordinary income. I have the table here, but the «forgotten» working party may present in the setting. Maybe it's unpleasant that there's a difference between what you're saying and what you're doing. Now it should be added, for the sake of order, that it has to be because of the progress of the tax system. I'd like to admit that, but why can't the Labour Party just as well admit the same thing? For example, if you want to get rid of the sharing model, you have to do something about the tax system for the so-called richest ones – that's just the way it is. The Labour Party further says that instead of giving tax relief, they have prioritised welfare. What is well-being? Is it well-being to be dependent on so-called nice labor party politicians who first tax you hard, and then to distribute – shall we call it – mild gifts to those who deserve it? For many people in this country, it is considerable well-being to manage itself. It is well-being to be able to live on its own income. It is well-being to avoid having to receive public support. But this is obviously not welfare for the Workers' Party. Let the state control the people's money! For housing taxes – or, as it is actually called – taxes on the benefit of being able to live in owner-occupied dwellings. Being able to live in an owner-occupied dwelling is probably an advantage, but it is then bought knowingly – with employee incomes that have already been taxed several times! What's so social about house taxes? Is it well-being to pay house taxes? Removing the cash support is obviously also well-being. Well-being for whom? Well-being for those who have a different priority than the Workers' Party, who believe that it is a value in itself to raise their own children? The working party says that they haven't prioritised tax credits, and that's for the most part right. But there is in particular one tax haven they definitely give priority to, and there is an increase in the deduction of trade union quotas. Here there is absolutely all right with tax relief, but all the thousands of thousands who are members of voluntary teams and organisations in this country, working for children and young people – doing social work every single day – should not have any tax relief. Is it welfare? Is it socially fair? A job to go to is also well-being. Then new jobs must be created – in addition to making the best possible use of the business we already have. However, imposing additional tax burdens on business is entirely appropriate for the Workers' Party. It's probably because you think you can convince people that it's completely fair and totally social to tax dividends in addition to wealth. But it is this surplus that creates safe – and new – jobs! Why does the Labour Party believe that it is better to charge this money – then to spend it on inflating an already large government? Is it welfare for most people? Is it a social budget? Everyone who works in a competitive industry knows how important it is that the company does well. They know how important it is to make money. Why be so against it? A person who has just been informed that he is losing his job sent an e-mail to some of Storting's representatives yesterday. He writes that our "administrative director probably has a decent salary, but we don't have any rich uncles here who pick up hundreds of millions in dividends." Furthermore, he writes that he works in any company that operates for the purpose of making profits to the owners who have injected the capital and started the business, as in all other companies, but the difference is that with the net pay scheme it would have been possible to do the same with Norwegian employees only. He also writes that the state subsidizes both farmers and other groups in our country, many of whom belong to households with profits. And he writes, "Oh, yes, it's called an active district policy, yes." And: ‘What about pursuing a little active maritime policy too...?’ First of all, it was a greeting to Øystein Djupedal and SV, who have contributed to the liquidation of the net pay scheme from 2006. However, it is equally likely to be sent to the Workers' Party, because even if the Workers' Party is in favour of a net payroll scheme, they show in their alternative budget that they are against improving the framework conditions for the owners of the company – and jobs are then lost. This is primarily an agreement on next year's government budget. But I hope, of course, that this can also form the basis for a better cooperation climate on the non-socialist side of the policy. This is absolutely necessary, because Norway does not need a socialist majority in the next enlargement period. I take this up with me the proposals that the Progress Party is promoting either alone or together with others in the financial position.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25.ana.ud2414e220	The representative, Siv Jensen, has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25.ana.ud2414e225	The representative, Siv Jensen, spent a lot of his time justifying a social profile that she thought was now present in the budget. Let me ask the representative three things. She waved with a tax table, and I can also wave that tax table. But Siv Jensen thinks it's right that those who make 1.2 million. kr, gets approx. 19 000 kroner in tax relief, and that those who earn approx. 200,000 kroner, get $3,600 for tax relief? Where is the social profile of the tax angle here? Furthermore, when the party that has been against taxes and taxes for many years is now in favour of an increase in VAT that brings in more than DKK 4 billion into the state treasury, i.e. an increase in VAT, is this a social profile? That's what happens to everyone. And on the other hand, with regard to the deductions they have hammered on and hammered on in the budget proposals following budgetary proposals and in the tax position earlier, they are now in favour of tightening up daily work travel for commuters and in terms of fees for commuters. And those who already have a lot of hospital expenses get an increase. [[The President clubs.]] Is this a proper social profile?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25.ana.ud2414e236	The President allows himself to recall that the Storting has decided that the speaking time for lines is 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25.ana.ud2414e239	Yes, it's a much better social profile than what was the starting point for this budget. As I said in my post, it is not possible within a tax system with such a progression we have, to be able to give good tax relief to all groups without having to show up with a certain progress. But it's okay, it's okay. The most important thing is that, through the tax system we have, we also contribute to facilitating them with ordinary and medium-income. And the Workers' Party should perhaps spend a little more time understanding their own tax arrangements before they went into attack on the Progress Party and the government parties for this tax arrangement. The profile is much better distributed than it is in the Workers' Party's arrangement, which is so loud that they give a total of 363 kroner in tax bills to those who really make little money in our society.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25.ana.ud2414e246	Let me first give the Progress Party and, in particular, the representative Jensen recognition for having contributed well to a performance-oriented cooperation climate in the budget negotiations. It led to a clean and good process, and not least to a settlement of constructive solutions for the parties, while at the same time taking care of the direction of economic policy. It is hardly surprising that the Right is satisfied with a settlement that is withheld from the use of oil money. However, in the alternative budget of the Progress Party, or more precisely, in the alternative budgets — if the external budget is also included — there is considerable use of oil money. When the representative Jensen looks forward at the end of his speech, it might be interesting to get an answer to whether this compares with the government parties insinuating a new direction and a new and more cautious, or – let me also say – more properly, the use of oil money in the future budgets.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25.ana.ud2414e255	It seemed to me that there would be a question about it. That's why I've allowed myself to bring an article from the Newspaper, where several of the country's leading economists say that the economy tolerates more oil money. What we have to discuss is how we choose to use them. There's a very obvious difference between whether we spend the money on consumption, or whether we spend it on sensible investments that will benefit both current and future generations. Our main challenge is that in this rich country, we should be able to solve our own challenges first and foremost, to be able to create competitive framework conditions for our businesses. And we're not doing that with a policy where we're more concerned with salting down large billions of profits in foreign companies every year than letting any of this money also benefit our own business. For me, this becomes more and more incomprehensible. Right may mean it, but the Progress Party does not agree.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25.ana.ud2414e262	One of the most striking features at the harvest budget rounds is the good tone that has been between the Progress Party and the Right. We have also seen that in today's debate, and we have seen it in the public vocabulary, that these two parties are increasingly trying to find a cooperation that will point beyond this period. This budgetary agreement, which was concluded in the autumn, is probably the most modest budgetary agreement reached in the Storting, and it was not very difficult to agree, because in the two largest parties in this agreement, it was obviously thought that this was infinitely important. I understand the Progress Party, which has long been outside the good company and would like to enter. I see that they have become so close, these links between the Progress Party and the Right, that today the Prime Minister finds it justified to go out and warn against further cooperation with the Progress Party. In this way it might be interesting to hear if Siv Jensen believes it is now such that there is a back-channel between the Right and the Advance Party for something other than the cooperation with the bourgeois parties in the Stortinget today. Is it now necessary for the Prime Minister to go out and warn against this because this cooperation has become so close?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25.ana.ud2414e271	I understand that Øystein Djupedal is beginning to fear the possibility of losing a possible taboo after the next big shot. By itself, you know others, you might say. This is primarily a budgetary settlement for next year's government budget. But, as I said in my post, I hope that it can in the long run help to improve the cooperation climate on the non-social side. It is wrong when Øystein Djupedal claims that this is one of the most modest comparisons that has been made in Stortinget. That's wrong. $7 billion is historic, at least in this big time period. If Øystein Djupedal is not able to count on that, he should at least not aim to become Minister of Finance for the next major period.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25.ana.ud2414e281	I want to start by giving tribute to the Progress Party, which through neat, respectful and constructive negotiations has contributed to the fact that there are now pluralities for a good budget. So on to the main content of the line: For the Christian People's Party, family policy is important. But the family is under pressure from several quarters today. Time squeezes, the economy may be intrusive – especially for young people in the start-up phase – and new roles that parents are demanding for most. To master this cross-press, we in the Christian People's Party believe that a life course can provide a useful ballast that makes young people better able to develop good and safe homes. As in so many other areas, we believe here that factual information, guidance and exchange of experience can be positive building blocks. In the Progress Party's alternative budget, they write that they view the family as one of the most important elements and points of support in society. But at the same time, they give very clear evidence that life courses have zero faith in them. This I don't get to go completely together. Can the representative Jensen explain this to me a little bit closer?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25.ana.ud2414e290	The President will assume that it is not a course of political life.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25.ana.ud2414e293	No, that's possible. One could almost get the impression that Sørfonn would like to have some public support schemes in place also at that type of life course – but I will leave it. I had hoped that Ingebrigig S. Sørfonn would take a new variant of Jon Lilletun's statement after this budgetary conciliation became a fact. I remember very well what it was like last year. Then Jon Lilletun was out and said that a good budget had improved. I have asked Mr. Sørfonn insistently if he could not now go out and say that a poor budget has become good. But for some strange reason he hasn't. It is absolutely right that the Advance Party is occupied by the family. We are committed to facilitating that the family, as the family itself sees fit, can make the best possible arrangements. Then it must mean freedom of action. It facilitates the Progress Party, both through offensive child policies and through cash support schemes that enable the family to make real choices. The big question is whether it is a public task to facilitate a life course between two parties who have problems at different stages of a life. But that debate probably can take Sørfonn and I another time.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25.ana.ud2414e304	First, the negotiators give the impression that, among other things, is about an extra $3 billion for municipalities next year. So it turns out that most of these funds are compensation for income government and grossing-up has meant that the municipalities will have this year. But then it turns out that the loss of tax revenue this year is NOK 3.4 billion. So there is no full compensation for the loss of income, much less new, fresh money for next year. The centre part is not in doubt that both are most necessary to ensure a good school and a worthy care. Does not the Progress Party believe that presenting the agreement as something far more than what it really is is a propensity to break down confidence in political work?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25.ana.ud2414e311	The Progress Party has produced this agreement just as it is, i.e. NOK 3 billion more for the municipal sector. 2.2 billion is a compensation for defaulting tax revenue in 2004, 800 million. kr is new money as well. There's a tremendous investment in the municipal sector next year. I don't think Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa can afford that. I would also like to remind you that when this room discussed the languages of the throne, the Progress Party encouraged proposals to give full compensation to the municipal sector. Then it was just the Center Party who voted in favour. After we have now managed to negotiate a tax failure compensation of NOK 2.2 billion, I note that the Workers' Party and SV are for that as well. But they weren't. When we just a few weeks ago promoted exactly an identical proposal in this hall, they voted it down.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25.ana.ud2414e318	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25.ana.ud2414e321	Good and fair distribution are important objectives of the Labour Party's policy. When nearly 100,000 people are unemployed in an economy that goes quite well, it is shown that the fight against unemployment is not high enough priority. When it is cut into education to form the basis for future value creation and when newly built homes are unused because the municipalities lack money, it is an expression of a priority in which the Workers' Party disagrees. The fight for full employment, for a good school and good care for the elderly, is not served by a policy that puts new tax incentives first. In its alternative state budget, the Labour Party proposes a stronger effort to create more and better jobs, more measures for those who are unemployed, and we propose more for transport. We want an active industrial policy focusing on innovation and on district and industrial development. The agreement on an inclusive working life must be continued, and we want to improve the permitting arrangements. With almost 100,000 unemployed, there is a need for a strengthened labour market seat and more action places. The working party therefore proposes 3,000 more sites for action. According to Statistics Central Bureau, our strengthening of the municipal economy by over DKK 4 billion would create about 7 000 new jobs in municipalities – i.e. 7 000 more care and welfare workers. The Labour Party will increase the free revenues of municipalities and counties by DKK 3.5 billion compared to the Government's proposal, and we will increase the earmarked grants by about 500 million. kr. Without such an improvement in the finances of municipalities, we will face cutbacks both in school provision and in care for the elderly until next year. The $800-million increase. kr in the municipal economy for next year, which was provided by the Progress Party in the budget agreement, does not last much longer than until Easter – and until next year the Easter actually arrives early. It is positive that later in the autumn it will be compensated for lost tax revenue this year, but it will not solve the problems of municipalities for 2005. The overall strengthening of the municipal economy of over DKK 4 billion would contribute to the strengthening of primary and secondary schools, to the continuation of the loan scheme for upgrading school buildings and to the maintenance of rural lines in secondary schools. The Workers' Party will establish 14 000 new kindergartens. There are 5,000 more places than the government parties and the Progress Party have now agreed. And last but not least, a strengthened community economy will create a better and safer care for the elderly. The situation for hospitals is going to be difficult until next year. After the agreement between the government parties and the Progress Party, hospitals will have to cut about DKK 1.7 billion to next year – i.e. at the upper edge of 4,5 million. Every day of the year! The working party will increase the appropriations for hospitals by DKK 1 billion in addition to what is in the budget agreement. This is absolutely necessary in order to avoid cutbacks in patient provision and shutting down hospital wards. The increase in the hospital, which was achieved by the Progress Party in the budget agreement, will not be able to prevent such cuts. Besides giving tax relief to those who don't need it, there's one area where the Bondevik government has really been to recognize. Every harvest the Government has proposed to increase the excesses in the health care system dramatically. Once again, this was stopped in Stortinget. Last year, the Workers' Party managed to stop the increases. It is good that the Progress Party in the budget agreement for next year has done the same. When the Bondevik government presented its draft government budget for 2005 earlier this fall, a storm of criticism was encountered. The main accusation was directed at the tax profile, with large tax reliefs to those who absolutely do not need it. The draft budget was marked as unsocial, and it was deserved! The unknown Carsten O. Five said on the budget for Dagbladet on 6 October: ‘The wealthiest with high wages, expensive housing, large wealth are winners. Those who lose are insured, unemployed and socially and economically disadvantaged, who have to contribute to paying higher VAT and increased costs when they are ill.» Following the budgetary agreement between the Government Parties and the Advance Party, the Progress Party would like to present the result as a more social budget. We have also heard that in the debate today. It is great that strong increases in excess were reversed, and it is also good that people with incomes of NOK 200000 now get NOK 1 300 more in tax bills. But that does not mean that this evening the Stortinge will adopt a tax scheme with a social and fair profile – on the contrary. The 1 pst Mom's increase. means that everyone is required to pay for the tax relief. Over NOK 4 billion will be paid by consumers in increased VAT to next year. Worst of all, this increase in VAT is necessary to pay for massive tax credits to those who do not. Persons with an employee income of 3,5 million. With the government’s tax arrangements, DKK 121 000 would be paid in tax relief. After the budgetary agreement, they will receive NOK 111,000. If $121,000 in tax relief to people with millions of incomes was unsocial, there can't be $111,000 in tax relief, which is equivalent to more than a minimum pension, suddenly become social! And these are only reliefs in income taxes. In addition, relief from taxes on wealth and housing for the same high income groups. This is to be voted for tonight by the Advance Party, the Right, the Left and the Christian People's Party. The same four batches shall vote to tighten the commuting deduction and to tighten the deduction for people with high costs of disease. This will affect ordinary workers. The budget to be adopted tonight still deserves the stamp 'ussocial'! The Workers' Party does not therefore support the Government's proposal for tax arrangements with a VAT increase of 1 pst. We propose a tax arrangement that is more fairly distributed. The working party goes in to increase minimum deductions and trade union deductions. We are opposed to the Government's proposal to tighten a number of other deductions, such as: the deduction of commuting and disease. The Labour Party will not increase taxes and charges for people with normal income. In 2005, we will continue around the same level of taxation as this year. The Chairman of the Committee, the representative of Siv Jensen, has recently also confirmed that the Workers' Party's tax regime is not, in fact, fiscal austerity, on which the Right is proceeding, but the opposite. Last fall, the Christian People's Party Lilletun was delighted with the budgetary agreement with the Workers' Party. He then said, "A good budget has become even better." But this year too, the Christian People's Party has been pleased with the changes that have been made through the conciliation. What's striking is that every year during this great period, the Christian People's Party has needed help from parties other than its own government partners to make the budget edible to itself. Last year it was the Workers' Party that contributed, this year it is the Advance Party. There are ten months to the next major elections, and the lines of Norwegian policy have become clearer. After listening to the coseprate of the previous change of words, between the Party of Advancement and the government parties, it is quite obvious that the parties on the right are looking for a match. The Progress Party, as the Detainee of the Bondevik Government, has concluded its third budgetary agreement with the Government. It was also something we should expect from the Progress Party, which thus contributed to the beginning of the Government. The budget agreement may for a moment make it look as if the Progress Party has placed itself on the left of the Christian People's Party, but a small check in the Advance Party's own alternative budget shows where the party belongs! Here we see billions of cuts in aid and in agriculture, cuts in culture and the environment, and massive investment in privatisation and outsourcing. It shows that the Progress Party is and will be a right party. The working party is placed on the other side of the head of another government option after the next choice. Our goal is a majority government consisting of parties in the centre and on the left. A new majority is needed to make the fight for work for all, for a better school and for good care for the elderly more important than new tax reliefs. In my homelands, we have just entered the Dark Age. We endure for two months without the sun because we know it shines in January, and because we know that until summer the sun will shine again 24 hours a day. To those who now look darkly at the consequences of the budget that the Progress Party and the government parties will adopt this evening, I would say this: Face it! There's light in sight. Next harvest is a choice! I take this up with me the proposals that the Workers' Party is promoting alone or with others.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25.ana.ud2414e377	It's kind of original that it's just about the fall you should see the light, but let go. The representative Hill-Marta Solberg has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25.ana.ud2414e384	When Gro Harlem Brundtland was head of the Workers' Party, the Workers' Party considered the same thing as the Right believes today, namely that no one should pay more than half of the last crown in taxes. Now, the Labour Party clearly believes that what was right to do in 2002 is greedyly unsocial in 2005. Can this be related to the fact that it is now Gerd-Liv Valla and SV who have taken over the chair and is directing Arbeiderpartit-shuta towards the left? I just think we have to note that the Workers' Party in its alternative state budget once again violates its promise to the voters not to increase taxes. Taxes on business are greatly increased. However, my question to Hill-Marta Solberg relates to the Workers' Party's strong attacks on the well-being and freedom of choice of children's families. 3 600 kroner will be taken overnight by the Workers' Party from families with small children who have cash support. Almost NOK 40000 per person. years the Workers' Party will take away from the families. Does Hill-Marta Solberg think that there is social and fair policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25.ana.ud2414e393	The Labour Party provides a tax system that we can fully defend both in relation to people with normal incomes and in relation to business. On the contrary, it is the Right that has problems in defending and justifying why people who have millions of income will get over $100,000 in tax relief. Using the system as an argument that it is necessary is not sustainable, according to our assessment. It does not help no matter how indignant Jan Tore Sanner is about being above the Workers' Party's resistance to the cash support. We have disagreed on the cash support from the first day. We still are. We're not hiding that either when we present our alternative budget. We will liquidate the cash support. We propose that in our alternative budget. We'd rather bet on building more kindergartens, and that's actually what's going to give families freedom of choice.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25.ana.ud2414e400	The former head of the Labour Party, Thorbjørn Jagland, said a few years ago in a newspaper interview that it was important for Norwegian excise duties to be harmonised in the short term with the EU average. He spoke in particular about the car charges, but there was also a general comment on the Norwegian excise duty level. The representative of Svein Roald Hansen from Østfold expressed great concern in the harvest about the charges on goods subject to border trade. We can find the same thing again from the Working Party in the setting. But when we start looking at the proposals, we find virtually nothing in terms of fees and fees. My question is: Does the Workers' Party have an idea of which fees it is important to do something about, and when do they intend to propose to do something?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25.ana.ud2414e410	I have to say it surprises me that a representative from the Progress Party addresses such a question. What's going to happen here in the Chamber tonight when we get to the vote is that the Progress Party, the party that was set up in its time to fight taxes and taxes, will vote to increase VAT by 4 billion kroner to next year! The main difference between the Labour Party's and the Advance Party's policies for the next year on the fee side is that the Workers' Party is moving towards a VAT increase of 1 p.m., which will therefore cost consumers 4 billion kroner next year! We think it is positive that the Norwegian Government has taken the initiative to look at the possibility of dialogue with other countries in terms of developments in relation to some of the excise duties. We support those initiatives, and we hope that it will be possible to get some results from them.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25.ana.ud2414e417	After the hospital reform, and especially after the civil government was given responsibility for the hospital economy, people, especially in small communities across the country, have experienced that their hospital services have been threatened, and that there are annual proposals for the closure of local hospitals and the reduction of health services in several regions of our country. This insecurity around local hospitals has tried to clear both the SV and the Workers' Party in their alternative budgets, with larger allocations to hospitals. However, we have made a proposal that we believe is absolutely necessary in order for these appropriations to fulfil their purpose, namely to postpone the requirement for health businesses to keep their accounts in balance by the end of 2005. This requirement also makes it very difficult to avoid cuts in the coming year with larger appropriations in practice. What surprises us is that there is no reason why the Labour Party will support this proposal. It is only the Central Party that has announced that they will vote to postpone the balance requirement, and we wonder that the Workers' Party has not wanted to support this now.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25.ana.ud2414e422	I am of those who remember very well a number of visits we had to the Storting and other political forums related to the health problems, even before the health reform. That it is therefore problematic to meet the ends in a good way in the health care system every year is nothing new. But we believe that what is contained in the proposal to push on the so-called balance sheet requirement, i.e. the requirement in relation to the time when the economy should be balanced in hospital companies, is simply to push the problem ahead. To get this under control, sufficient funds should be allocated. What will be granted here today is too little. It is at least NOK 1 billion too small for hospitals to manage. That's why we believe that in the next year, perhaps to spring, in the revised national budget, there will be proposals here in the United Kingdom to secure the economy of hospitals in a better way than what the government parties and the Progress Party are going to go in for today.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25.ana.ud2414e427	Voluntary teams and organisations carry out an invaluable and irreplaceable social effort. The Christian People's Party wants the authorities to show through practical and concrete measures that this is valued. That's why we're so busy with the so-called gift deduction, this right to tax deductions for gifts up to a certain amount. In the Workers' Party's alternative budget, I read that the Workers' Party will terminate the entire grant deduction scheme from 1 January next year. In the same way that the Christian People's Party also has a close knowledge of the voluntary sector, and so I'm not quite finding out about this. It could therefore be okay if the representative Solberg could explain to me a little bit closer to why the Workers' Party will terminate the whole gift-deduction scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25.ana.ud2414e434	The working party is of the opinion that deduction schemes in the tax system are primarily linked to expenditure relating to the acquisition of income, such as: heavy costs of getting to work. Excessive exceptional disease-related expenditure should also be subject to deduction rights. These are arrangements that the Christian People's Party now enters into to remove from the tax system. Generosity and generosity are a good thing, a very good thing. I'm convinced that there's a lot of this around our society, there's a lot of people who have genuine desires and who like to support important things and purposes in society. But I don't have the same understanding that real and sincere givers are subject to a tax subsidy.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25.ana.ud2414e439	The working party spends almost NOK 2 billion less on various expenses than what we do to others, and if not paid, or agriculturalally settled, until the spring becomes significantly cheaper than before, it can easily be seen as an indirect extra consumption of oil money. The centre party for its part chooses to say straight away that we choose to spend a little more oil money, and according to the Central Bureau of Statistics, it will be able to provide 10,000 new jobs without affecting interest rates and inflation – again according to the Central Bureau of Statistics. My question to the Workers' Party is whether or not the Workers' Party, which, like us, is committed to reducing unemployment, could have done this more sincerely by simply using a little more oil instead of resorting to the kind of fixed solutions that can actually mean an indirect increase in oil money unless agricultural settlement and wage settlement are as reasonable as the Workers' Party here is.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25.ana.ud2414e446	No, I must honestly say that the Workers' Party has not even thought of spending more oil money for the next year than what has been proposed by the Government. The sitting government has stabbed its hand so deep into the oil jar that no government and finance minister has ever done before. So we haven't considered going to that step. It must be based on a misunderstanding when the representative Arnstad says that the Workers' Party is reducing in various ways. We have exactly the same proposal in various ways as the government parties have. It's always a government's privilege to have an overview of what lies ahead as unforeseen things in the budget, so we're doing like the government parties when it comes to granting in the miscellaneous item. There is no separate and different proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25.ana.ud2414e453	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25.ana.ud2414e456	Optimism is back. It's growth in the economy, new jobs are created, more people come to work, and well-being is strengthened. The 2005 budget will strengthen the positive development of the Norwegian economy. After the 2001 election, many predicted chaos and mess. Today, everyone knows better. The government has shown leadership and governance over a difficult time. When we took over in 2001, unemployment was on the way up, and Norway was on the way into a recession. Many companies are out of business due to a lack of competitiveness, a high level of interest rates and excessive taxes. This created uncertainty. Many local environments looked with concern at the future, and many families were insecure both in relation to personal finances and in relation to continuing work. Today, pessimism has turned to optimism. Setback has been reversed to rise. Record low interest rates, a competitive krone rate, moderate wage-fixing and lower taxes have contributed to job security and to strong growth in the number of new entrants. This is important, because safe jobs are the very foundation of our welfare society. Growing in more to distribute and work is the key to well-being for some of us. There's a political dispute about the government's course. Still, there are some parties who believe that we can afford a better future, and who don't see the connection between value creation and well-being. Still, there are those who believe that we can only provide ourselves with our common wealth to secure tomorrow's pensions and future generations. In these areas, the Government is uncompromising. Values must be created before they can be distributed. We do not gamble with the framework conditions for a business that is the very foundation of our well-being, and we take responsibility for those who come after us. The State budget for 2005 is the last one to be addressed during this large-scale period. The prediction that the Government would go from cabinet questions to cabinet questions is made to shame. We have found solutions in Stortinget. I will not hide that it has been demanding. Several parties have contributed to finding good compromises, and therefore have reason to rejoice over the positive developments we see in many areas. «The budget negotiations in Stortinget in the autumn have been the most tidy during this big time period», wrote the Evening Post at the leadership post following the agreement between the government parties and the Progress Party. Form is important. Last year we took a settlement with the game by demanding that the opposition put forward its alternative budgets before we started the negotiations. The result was a clean process, and the negotiation period was shortened from five weeks to five days. I would like to pay tribute to the Progress Party, and in particular to Siv Jensen, for the neat conduct of the negotiations in the autumn. The negotiations were marked by respect for each other's pain limits and willingness to find good compromises. That's why we came up with a result that all the parties can be proud of. The autumn clearance has created clearer political divisions. The non-socialist parties have agreed on a budget which: improving the framework conditions for business strengthens well-being through increased investment in schools, health, psychiatry and municipalities, reducing taxes on owners of housing, normal employees, and increasing support to industry; Interestingly, the socialist majority option has not been able to agree on a common scheme in the autumn. According to TV 2, the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party are breaking by between 30 and 40 billion kroner. Not enough, but the leaders of the three socialist parties promised in the TV debate that they would not raise taxes. It is worth noting that even in the opposition they are not able to keep their promises, neither the promise of more money for many good purposes, nor the promise of not increasing taxes. It was as we said: both the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party propose tax increases in 2005. We can now see the outlines of what the socialists can gather about. Reform work must be stopped. The modernisation of the public sector and the freedom of choice we have fought must be reversed. While we're removing the house tax, the socialists want people to still pay house tax. While we're holding the defense framework, the socialists are cutting the defense budget. While giving children's families freedom of choice, the socialists will take the cash support from young children's parents. More than NOK 3 500 per person. month, Stoltenberg and Halvorsen will take away from the families. As we improve the framework conditions for business, the socialists increase taxes. While exempting ordinary employees from top taxes, the socialists still believe that teachers are some rich people who are going to pay the payroll tax. The budget agreement maintains the main profile of the Government's proposal: welfare is strengthened, taxes are lowered and the school is given a knowledge promise. In 2005, we will take the first step in the new tax reform. It will give us a flat and fairer tax system. The tax on labour and capital is more equal and the taxes on wealth are to be reduced. The sociologists claim that it is unsocial to lower marginal taxes. Does the Workers' Party really think it's fair that people have to pay more than half of the last heads in taxes? For the right, it is an important principle that everyone should keep at least half of it. It was also the Labour Party's policy when Gro Harlem Brundtland was the boss. But now it's obvious that it's LO and SV who have taken over the chair, and they're controlling the working party shoot to the left. This fall we have had a debate on taxes and welfare. The sociologists obviously believe that there is a contrast between lower taxes and better well-being. There's no contradiction here, but a context. Lower taxes guarantee well-being. By facilitating businesses, value creation increases and benefits become more beneficial. Lower taxes also help more people to live on their own income and create security and well-being for the family. The Socialist Left Party has been sitting in the back of the room for the past few weeks and dictating a list of well-being shots they think the Right will carry out in the next big period. It's really quite scary that a party that has ambitions to take over the Ministry of Finance has not come to realize that it's something called economic growth. Or is it that SV is still a follower of the ecophilosophy zero growth? The truth is that the government's policy is double social. For every penny we've given in tax relief this period, we've spent more than $2 on expanding public welfare. Therefore, right-wing policies are social both in the present and in the future. We're betting money today, and we're laying the foundation for profitable jobs that guarantee the well-being of the future. This does not mean that all public expenditure is sacred. Of course, we have to re-prioritize, and of course we have to constantly consider whether the arrangements are still working properly. I believe that SV's outcome to the Right rather is an expression that the party wants to remove the search light against its own policy. The Socialist Left is the biggest threat to the welfare of Norway. When the socialists want to tax jobs out of the country, there will be less money for well-being. SV has gone against most new oil and gas production in the last twenty years. Had SV won forward, it had become far less money for well-being. Well-being is far more than what we grant over public budgets. Well-being is also the ability to live on our own income and to provide security for our loved ones. Let's see how the situation has changed for a very common Norwegian family where both mother and father are teachers, a family that owns a small house and maybe has 1.5 million. Indebtedness. When the Workers' Party ruled Norway, they paid 7-8 pst. interest on his mortgage, both paid the top tax, the house tax paid, and the children got too few lessons at school. After four years with our government, this family has improved its economy by NOK 70 000. They only pay 2-3 pst. interest on their loan, they no longer pay taxes on the dwelling, they no longer pay top taxes, and the children have gained longer school day and more knowledge in the school. For ordinary Norwegian families, it means a lot who controls Norway. For next year, a teacher's partner, each of whom has NOK 380,000 in salary, will receive NOK 5 900 less in taxes, even after the VAT increase. With the Workers' Party's alternative budget, this family would receive NOK 4 500 in increased tax. If they have cash support, this family would weaken its economy by a further NOK 36 000. This is about family security, well-being and freedom of choice. I will be allowed to take up the proposals of the government parties in case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25.ana.ud2414e538	The representative Jan Tore Sanner has taken up the suggestions he made. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25.ana.ud2414e543	The representative Sanner forgot to say that many of the families he referred to have unfortunately come into a situation of unemployment after this government joined. My point in this context, however, is that the Progress Party and the Government today are proposing the greatest tax burden to the highly paid ever. The CEO of Hydro will receive NOK 198 000 in tax relief. According to the Progress Party, that should be so fair. But there's someone who's going to pay for it. One thing is that the Advance Party and the Right increase VAT, that commuters and those who are ill receive increased taxes. Another thing is that the school offer and services for our older people are getting worse. Even after the agreement, the municipalities barely get enough to cover the cost increase next year. The Labour Party believes that it is necessary to strengthen school provision and to strengthen the offer to our elderly people, and we therefore propose to strengthen the local government economy by SEK 2.7 billion in addition to the agreement. How can the Right Party and the Advance Party defend the fact that some DKK 200,000 are being distributed in tax credits to the Hydro Manager and that they are being paid by cutting the offer to schoolchildren and the elderly?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25.ana.ud2414e557	If I don't remember completely wrong, Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen was Minister of Finance in 2001, when unemployment increased, when the interest rate was 7-8 pst. and people felt uncertain about their job. Now we have been able to create optimism through a healthy economic policy, we see that new jobs are created, and unemployment is on the way down. In terms of taxes, we mean the same thing as Gro Harlem Brundtland thought in 1992, that no one has to pay more than half of the last penny in taxes. I think it's a healthy principle. The Labour Party should also answer why they have turned around! We know that the Workers' Party will vote tomorrow to remove the sharing model. This will mean that the Workers' Party will create a huge tax haven for the real kingdoms of Norway when you do not agree to lower the marginal tax. Here I believe that Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen should rather take a little look at what his own financial fraction actually promotes by proposals also for 2005.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25.ana.ud2414e566	Before the Right took over the Ministry of Finance, the Right and the Advance Party had many common views on charging policy, as expressed both in comments and proposals. This is unfortunately not as clear anymore, and there may be several reasons for it. It is a fact that Norway has one of Europe’s worst car parks, with an average age of 10.3 years. We import year round between 30,000 and 40,000 used cars from abroad, many without cleaning the exhaust gases. I must admit that when I first read the budget, I jumped a little in the chair over the following wording: ‘The one-off fee is designed, inter alia, to: to motivate a more safe and environmentally friendly car park.» My question is: does the representative Sanner agree with this statement? And if he is, does he believe that this fee has been a success in that way?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25.ana.ud2414e578	The right is impatient to get the level of taxation down. During this period, we have prioritised lowering taxes on business, because we have been in a situation of how many jobs have been under pressure and insecure in relation to the possibility of survival, and we have been busy getting the tax on work down. We have also prioritised reducing some charges. Among other things, we have reduced the alcohol charge on spirits by 20 pst. during that period. We have reduced the electricity charge. I agree that we should also look at the car charges. But if we look at how the situation is right at the moment, there's "all hour high" in the new car sales. It seems that the improvement that people have received from their family economy, among other things. through lower taxes and lower interest rates, we are now getting a renewal of the car park. That is good, because newer cars are both more environmentally friendly and safer.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25.ana.ud2414e585	In this debate, it is almost striking how the Right Party and the Progress Party struggle to praise each other in the clouds of good cooperation. Truer's favour also seems to be infecting downwards in the organization, because yesterday 12 out of 15 Right-Rapporteurs went out to the VG with a request that the Right must sit down with the Advance Party in order to have mandatory cooperation after the election next year. In the past, several representatives of big business and state leaders in Right have expressed the same thing. At the same time, Prime Minister Bondevik of the Evening Post today says that right-wing spokespersons and others who may be interested in including the Advance Party must be aware that it can put Right 'in elections' between the Christian People's Party and the Progress Party. Now, Sanner is central to the Right-Leading, and it might be interesting to know what he thinks about this election, and who he is most in agreement with: he owns a pool, the spokesmen and his leaders, who invite the Progress Party to the responsible government position, or Bondevik, who asks Right to stay away from the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25.ana.ud2414e592	I think it might be a bit striking when the Socialist Left Party has gone to a frontal attack on the Right throughout this fall, first in relation to the state budget – that was not the way in which the State budget would be for Norway – and then in the last weeks, where Kristin Halvorsen has deflected the Right because we are lowering the taxes on ordinary employees, that when you come to the financial debate, the line is about what the Right Rapporteurs, and what the Right Grandnings Group, think about cooperation. I think perhaps I would encourage the representative of the SV Grande Røys to read what our rapporteurs are actually saying. What they're saying is that they work well with the Progress Party in many places locally. Of course, we want to cooperate with the Progress Party in matters where we can cooperate! But it is still so that there is a difference between the Government's position and the Progress Party's view on a number of issues, and then we reserve the right to cooperate with other parties. I think maybe you shouldn't be so worried about how we cooperate on the non-socialist side. But as I said, I'm quite surprised that after this fall [[The President clubs.]] [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25.ana.ud2414e599	It's perfectly legitimate to be surprised, but you have to be in 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25.ana.ud2414e602	The finance minister the other day said that it is an illusion to believe that oil revenue can save the future's well-being and the economy. The centre party has said the same thing for a long time. It is the workforce that needs to be increased, it needs to be processed, and it needs to be used smarter. The reserves must be used. Government policies have reduced the workforce, labour reserves have increased. Victor D. Norman said there were 600 000 people in that reserve. The slope is close to 400,000. There are no figures in the national budget for the number of unemployed, registered and non-registered, the size of the reserves among the under-employed, among early retirements, among those who work part-time and will work more, among the disabled and among immigrants. This reserve has twice the value of the oil wealth, if we're going to believe the calculations from the previous long-term program. The Party wishes to see a separate chapter in the national budget for this reserve on measures to bring this reserve into operation. We have put a proposal on the table today. Will the Right Help underline this request to the Government?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25.ana.ud2414e611	I am not quite convinced that a chapter in the national budget is what makes the trick! That being said, the representative Morten Lund addresses an important question, and that's how we can get more people who are in social security, back to work. But the representative Morten Lund and the Central Party should also look at all the proposals that the Government has made to strengthen the working line. Through the changes we have made in the unemployment allowance, through the changes we have made in the disability benefit, through the changes we have made in the rules of reintroduction, we have strengthened the line of work. By stimulating economic growth, we now see employment increasing. So that's not what Morten Lund says. We see that there are more people going to work, and we want that line to go on. We will continue to make proposals that strengthen the working line and that will get more insured back to work. We also have a proposal in this State budget, in which we propose in concrete terms that disabled people should be able to use their social security as wage subsidies over three years. I hope that this is an instrument that will work, so that we get more people back to work.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25.ana.ud2414e618	The representative Sanner started by saying that optimism is back. It reminded me of what we heard in Kåre Willoch's time: now everything is going so much better. It was just before it suddenly didn't go that much better. I wonder if the rapporteur in Sanner's own municipality shares the view that optimism is back when they are going to make a budget for next year. In the next few years, the municipality of Bærum will have to reduce its operating level by 500 million. kr. There should be 300 fewer employees to do the job in the municipality of Bærum. There is a risk that seven out of ten elderly centres may be laid down next year. This is just one example, from one of the most well-known municipalities in the country. In other municipalities where there are more needy already, the situation is even more difficult. In Oppegård, another municipality that should be close to Sanner, it's worth 55 million. kr. Does the representative Sanner think that the municipalities have the means they need to provide the citizens with the services they need next year?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25.ana.ud2414e625	I think one should look for a long time for a rapporteur who can hit his chest and say that now he has had enough. I don't think that was the situation when the Workers' Party crashed Norway. I remember when both Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen and Jens Stoltenberg were state councillors, that they met with many rapporteurs, including workers' party rapporteurs, who would have liked more. I can reassure Svein Roald Hansen that the rapporteur also thinks in my own area that optimism is back, because it is now seen to be growth and progress in the economy. You see that unemployment goes down, you see that people get better advice. Of course, there are challenges in the local economy – no one should underestimate them. That is why we are also pleased that, in the agreement with the Progress Party, we have found room both to compensate for the tax failure and to improve the economy further in 2005.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25.ana.ud2414e632	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25.ana.ud2414e636	Let me first replicate to Jan Tore Sanner, who said that the representative of Grande Røys had a line he didn't like. We record that the Right and Advance Party have a lot of kiss, clapping and hugging these days. We're recording it, and we think it's interesting. We think it's necessary to ask the right what they're actually doing, especially because Bondevik himself has found reason to warn against this. I understood in the line that he thought there was too little criticism of the Right. He will now get that in plenty of monn – I can promise the representative Sanner! This budget is the clearest example of the Right-wing policy we have had in this period, and the most unsocial budget is also the one that has been deciphered. It shows with all manner of clarity who it is that has the power of the Government. These are classic right-hand proposals that are now coming back. This is a draft budget which will increase differences in Norway. This is a budget proposal that will not lead to a significant reduction in unemployment, despite Norway's very good day-to-day performance. And not least, this is a budget that will make the municipalities still wear very heavy. Even after a modest increase after the budgetary agreement, the tax losses to Norwegian municipalities are not even covered. It is not entirely without reason that even the own rapporteurs of the Right are now very dissatisfied and complain about their need. They can't be particularly reassured when they hear from Jan Tore Sanner, with poorly hidden arrogance, that the municipalities have received enough money, as he said in the evening post two days ago. What is perhaps the most arduous thing for many of the local politicians on the Right is that the difference in the reality description between the big bench and the government offices and the municipalities is so vast. Right-wing local politicians around the country struggle just as much, and they meet the same voters at the store as our local politicians do. The right reality here from the Storting is that they have enough money, they just have to spend them more efficiently, as it's called in the Right Language. I would think that the Right has significant problems in many places locally, simply because the reality description gives the Right Central politicians is so far away from the reality you encounter in Norwegian classrooms, in Norwegian nursing homes or where it might be in the municipality. In this draft budget presented by the Right-Original Government, we have many classic, unsocial Right-proposals, and let me take some of them, so that Jan Tore Sanner will be satisfied. You suggested over $1 billion in incremental costs once again. So you're taxing disease, but you're not taxing wealth. Sick pay was increased for employers by over DKK 1 billion – a classic proposal that is typical of the Right. This was stopped in the budget agreement. Large tax reliefs were given to high-income groups, more than DKK 4 billion to those above the peak tax point. There was great relief in the taxes on wealth – not for those with a normal dwelling, but for those who have shares or assets in shares. The valuation was to be reduced from the book value to 65 pst. of value. This is a proposal that only makes a man like Rimi-Hagen get tens of millions of dollars in tax relief. I guess that's the biggest paradox. There are probably many people who think it might be right to give tax relief, and there are many in Norway who need tax relief, but why in heaven's name people like Rimi-Hagen will get tax relief, I think it's very difficult for many of us to understand. In addition, this non-social proposal to increase VAT by 1 pst is available. until 25 pst., for which the right has also entered. Here I registered that Jon Lilletun believed that it increased the VAT by 1 pst. was a victory for the Christian People’s Party. Then you dropped out NOK 9.3 billion in tax relief, you only got NOK 3.3 billion. It shows with all manner of clarity who has shaped this budget the most. It's Right, and the Christian People's Party victory was an increase in VAT by 1 pst. It says a little bit about the whole of this budget. I think a lot of people also think that if it is necessary to tighten up, if it is necessary to give tax relief, this budget is a wrong signal, because many in Norway should be tightening up. They get more in this budget, and those who should have been taxed do not get it in this budget. In other words, this is a budget in the wrong direction, it is a budget that does not actively use fiscal policy to balance differences, to fight, for example. increased ownership or the possibility of greater municipal freedom of action. It's, to say it just as true is, a budget without ambitions for our country. Englishmen often use to say that they must have either ‘hands on’ or ‘hands off’. When you say "hands off," that's what this government has. So you don't want to have control, you don't want to use the tools and the will to try to get the best out of our country. ‘Hands off’ simply means that you do not take the responsibility of sitting and trying to control. We want ‘hands on’ – that means that we want to try to use the different means the state owns, to get a better society for all of us. Let me say a little bit about what's in our alternative budget, and that's a different way than the government that's sitting on it is using a tool to make the best of our society. The main challenge, from SV's point of view, is that we have to fight against unemployment and against differences. We have 100,000 people who today don't have a job to do. Only during this ageing period has the long-term unemployment rate increased to 25 000 – 12.5 pst. Of our young people under the age of 25, there is no work to do. And this in a situation where business is going well. It's "all hour high" at Oslo Stock Exchange. Norwegian business life has very good times, and at the same time we record the paradox that the youth does not get into work. One reason is that there is no automatic link between business going well and people getting into work. What we see is that the investment ambition in mainland Norway is low. It is high in the oil sector, high in the petroleum sector, but low in mainland Norway. The reason for this is that there is no automatic link between a large profit and investing in Norway. That's the paradox we're now seeing. When we then have a government that is ‘hands off’, which does not want to use the instrument of the state budget to give young people the opportunity to get into the labour market, this results in that, despite the fact that they should now have a much lower unemployment rate, we do not have it! What SV wants to do with this is to have more targeted measures that will make job creation more profitable in Norway. We want to improve the depreciation rules for Norwegian industry, which makes it possible to invest in the renewal of the production apparatus in order to maintain high productivity. We want to bet massively on research. Research is one of the most important components for the competitiveness of Norwegian business. We are out of chance in competition for the lowest possible cost, but we have every reason to believe that our jobs will be competitive if we have more knowledge of the products. We're betting on Innovation Norway, which is one of the most important government tools to acquire equity to Norwegian entrepreneurs or companies that want to expand their equity. For this is perhaps one of the greatest paradoxes, we have a country that's floating on money, while it's so hard for good young people to get someone to shoot money into the company. It's far more lucrative to buy property or housing, because here the government reduces the tax, and so it's far more lucrative for a person who has money, to bet on housing, because it's a safe investment, that gives returns, and even not taxes, instead of taking the chance to bet on young people who want to create a job. What is also necessary is that we improve the local economy. In fact, the local economy is one of the most important in getting people to work. One reason why we do not now have less leave than we do is that the local authority sector is so tight that municipal employees are given up for the first time in modern times. What is also paradoxical is that there is no link, as the Right would like to say, between lower public expenditure and better business environment. Recently, a report from the World Economic Forum was published, which is a very high-level economic council. The New York Times sums up part of the context as follows: Forget the myth of Scandinavian socialism and how its taxes and expensive public health services destroy private business. Nothing can be further from the truth. It turns out that four of the top six in the list of competitive economies in the world are the four Nordic countries — the four countries with the highest tax levels in the world. In Norway, the community takes a large part of the bill that businesses themselves have to take in many other countries, thus contributing to the competitiveness of business. That means that the right one-sided focus on low tax is not just wrong, it is simply very wrong! And now that's not just said by SV, but also by people who generally share a conservative view of life. This is essentially important to know when targeting measures to provide jobs both in industry and in the public sector. The interesting thing is that if you're talking to Norwegian business, you'll see that Norwegian business experience actually means exactly the same thing. They're occupied with equity, they're engaged in research, they're concerned that the public should care, they're concerned that there's simply someone there to play ball with. What we now have is a government that doesn't want to play ball with those who want to create work and wealth in Norway, and that's disturbing. We have a wealth that is more important than anyone else in this country, and it's people. It's labor, it's head and it's hands. That's what SV wants to achieve in this budget, and that we're focusing more on a forward-looking business. The whole device we have is a different focus from that of the right-dominated government, because they focus only on lower taxes. But low taxes do not create a more competitive business. Targeted interaction, where governments use their opportunities and business to give growth opportunities, is what creates more jobs and progress. In addition, SV rates on public finances, on the municipality and in hospitals. We want to spend SEK 6.5 billion more on the municipalities, which allows municipalities to have a welfare offer with greater municipal freedom of action, which makes it possible to refurbish our schools, which makes it possible to refurbish the hospitals, which allows people to be recruited again in the municipal sector, and which makes it possible to re-establish the seduction of very many municipalities, not least on maintenance and other important tasks. This is absolutely necessary, also for employment, but it is essential above all because we in this country can afford to spend more money on the community. So there's a paradox that many people see that while this state is floating out of money and a lot of us have a better private economy than ever, the municipality doesn't have the welfare of our kids going to school, it doesn't have enough money to do whatever it takes. This paradox is what we're trying to solve in our alternative budget by targeting more money to those who produce well-being in Norway, the many tens of thousands of employees out there who produce welfare for our society, and who we're going to give more opportunity to create a good society for us all. In addition, we want to strengthen the hospital economy, which is essential for better hospital treatment. So here we have a budgetary settlement that goes in the wrong direction, where a greater proportion of hospital revenues should be through input-driven funding, a very small targeted and accurate tool to help, for example. people with psychiatric disorders, people with chronic disorders or people with hard to diagnose. This will mean more of the operations for which it is easy to find a diagnosis, and less of what the hospital actually needs. That is why the Government also reduced input-driven funding in the previous draft budget – we have now returned to 60 p.m., which is an accident for Norwegian hospitals. We want to postpone the balance sheet requirement. It is necessary for hospitals to have more time to balance their finances. We're adding $1 billion to the hospitals, which is absolutely vital for them to cope with multiple patient treatments. The third SV focuses on in its alternative state budget is the environment. It's absolutely crucial in the times we're now inside. It's even so that there are now prominent American Republicans who realize that they have to take responsibility for the environment in a completely different way from what you do. The reason is that climate change is greater than what we have had reason to fear. The latest report leaves little doubt that global warming is a reality. This means that measures need to be put in place to prevent greenhouse gas emissions. Preventing or reducing greenhouse gas emissions is a long-term process. What we now know is that Russia has ratified the Kyoto Agreement, which means that these requirements will be imposed on the whole of European industry, including in Norway. That means that we have to do the job at home, locally, so that we can help get a more environmentally friendly world. Then there are particularly two things that are crucial, and that SV addresses in this budget. One is to provide more space for renewable energy. This means that we need to focus more on research and grant schemes that make it possible to have less fossil fuels. Here, Norway has a limitless potential, both in terms of creating a lot of energy and not least by creating future-oriented jobs. Let's just take the PV industry, which is a good example of how it's possible for good people to create businesses, create forward-looking jobs, and not least create products that pollute less than the energy carriers we have today. This will create thousands of jobs and be a way that we can go into the future. But it will not least, and that is perhaps the most important perspective, contribute to less CO2 emissions, which are absolutely crucial. The second important proposal in this way is to move transport to public transport. This means that we need to invest more in the railways and provide larger grants for public transport, especially in cities, where it is possible for people to travel collectively without experiencing it as a very time-consuming solution. We spend a lot of money on this because it is necessary to achieve the goals set in climate policy and to create a better environment for our children. Someone has to go ahead and take the environment seriously. What we've been doing in Norway for many years is that we've been talking about the environment being important, but no one's been willing to go ahead and say: it requires that we actually put some action in place. SV indicates in this budget what actions can be taken [[President clubs]] I hear the president's clubing. That means I'm going to finish. I just have to bring up the suggestions that are referred to in the setting and that SV is part of or is left alone.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25.ana.ud2414e703	The representative of Øystein Djupedal has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25.ana.ud2414e708	SV and the Labour Party are some of them mostly when it comes to welfare, and that more money is needed both for school, care and health. But we also need jobs in other sectors, for example: maritime transport. We have a net payroll scheme for the ferry fleet operating in international traffic. It shall expire in 2006. We now see the result of that, by the fact that flagging out is a reality. There are several who face the same challenge. The next challenge is that our NOR fleet can flag out. Norwegian seafarers are too expensive if they do not have a net pay scheme, i.e. the same competitive conditions as those with which they compete. My question to SV is: Will they now review the net pay arrangements, when they see the consequences of the decisions they have taken before?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25.ana.ud2414e717	Let me first say that I am terribly sorry that so many people lose their work in Fjord Line. I get many letters and e-mails from many of them. They're desperate and furious. It's not really for us to focus on. This is a decision made by the company Fjord Line. Even with a net pay scheme, it would be possible for Fjord Line to move out and get lower costs than a net pay scheme can provide. We believe that Fjord Line and also Color Line, which are the two major ferry companies that currently have a net payroll scheme, have to pay their own crew rent, which all other companies have to pay. What is the big paradox is that the industry has managed to create the impression that they need public subsidies, but almost all Norwegian enterprises competing with the rest of the world can get better conditions at some point in the world than they can get in Norway. We believe that there is a social contract where shipping companies, where seafarers, where we as magnification and we as citizens all have to contribute to our society. If you're always going to jump for the cheapest crown, as the company Fjord Line is doing now, I have to say that I'm terribly disappointed because they're also part of this social contract. This is the responsibility of the shipping company alone, not the responsibility of Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25.ana.ud2414e726	The representative, Djupedal, will not fail. With his one-sided use of language about the unsocial tax policy of the Government, he reduces the tax debate to just a distribution debate. And jobs are created only through public funds. How, for example, The tax system can help to stimulate new start-ups, both to provide jobs and to create the values that the representative, Mr Djupedal, has been so good at distributing here today, is not mentioned in one word — rather on the contrary. They increase the taxes on wealth of small and medium-sized enterprises and non-listed shares. The latter affects not least entrepreneurs in the start-up and growth phases. They are charged a much higher wealth tax than they might have in income. Instead of stimulating such start-ups by removing or reducing the Norwegian wealth tax, the left-hand side is doing the opposite, weakening the ability and willingness to start such a business. My question to Djupedal is: What is the Socialist Left Party thinking is so wrong with this kind of new establishment and jobs that they deserve the stumbling blocks you're putting on for them?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25.ana.ud2414e733	In the SV's alternative budget, business is facilitated by a redistribution of taxes. This means that we give relief in the employer's fee, and we give relief in the depreciation policy. Then we increase some other taxes, especially environmental taxes. We do that to create a forward-looking business. That we don't want any relief in the taxes on wealth is absolutely right. What are the reliefs in the wealth tax, as Heidi Larssen describes it now? Well, that means that, for example, a man like Rimi-Hagen instead of being taxed for 100 pst. by its non-listed company shall be taxed only for 65 pst. So he gets 35 pst. Discount on its taxes on wealth. Is there anyone who says that Rimi-Hagen automatically spends this money on creating more jobs? No, no, no. There is no automatic context in this. Rich people, of course, have to contribute to the community, which we all have to, because it's also part of our social contract. That means we're redistributing taxes, so we're creating new businesses -- no more taxes, total we're roughly in zero. But those with large assets in Norway must contribute, of course they must. This is solidarity and justice.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25.ana.ud2414e740	The representative, Djupedal, says that SV is busy getting the solution down. I have a little problem understanding that, and at least it can't apply to Norwegian seafarers. In the financial situation, SV also determines, as they traditionally do, that Norwegian shipping should not have internationally competitive framework conditions. Everyone understands that, at least most of us, will lead to flagging out and losing Norwegian jobs. We've also seen that now, when Fjord Line flags out and 350 added gets fired. In Bergen’s Official Journal, the following recently appeared – quote from Bergen’s leading SV politician, Oddny Miljeteig: ‘It’s bad and sad that SV has co-responsibility for 350 unionmates now losing their jobs.’ My question to Djupedal is, Is he in agreement with this nobleman, or does he think that his party trap here is wrong?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25.ana.ud2414e754	I just responded to a line about Fjord Line, and I have to say that I am genuinely sorry that these 350 lose their job. This is a responsibility of the shipping company alone. The shipping company is running with profits, this is a well-run business for many years. There is no reason, at my discretion, that we should subsidize it. It has become strange in one of the most proud and oldest industries in Norway, namely shipping, where we have good seafarers and have had it through generations, that shipowners have managed to create the impression that they need public subsidies. Shipowners in general – not Fjord Line – have a different and lighter tax; they have several advantages that other Norwegian companies competing do not have. I find it difficult to understand why Norwegian shipping companies need public subsidies. There is a tax competition between many countries, but it is on almost all the imaginable products or industries available. Food and other things are produced cheaper than in Norway. So anyway, there's a competition around this. My and SV's starting point is that we are terribly sorry that Fjord Line cancels these employees, but the responsibility is that of the company alone.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25.ana.ud2414e765	SV often says that they want to give the most to those who have the least. But SV sets clear conditions for whom they want to give the most. They will not give the most to the families of young children, at least not to the families of young children who opt for cash support for the youngest children. SV proposes to remove the cash support with immediate effect, and the answer to Øystein Djupedal is that the children can go to kindergarten. But SV and Øystein Djupedal know that it per. Today there are not enough kindergarten places for all the smallest children. It is the government's policy to give full freedom of choice. But then we have to build enough kindergartens. Similarly, SV proposes to remove the cash support from the new year. Those families with little children who have poor finances and who don't have children's playground from New Year's, will charge from NOK 3 500 a month. What answer will one give to these families when they have their finances deteriorated so much?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25.ana.ud2414e772	One of the things that I'm most proud of in this big time period is the large-scale kindergarten deal that Stortinget has made. The opposition came together and created a large-scale kindergarten bet, which was subsequently joined by the Government. So basically, it's a total mass that now wants a large-scale investment in kindergartens. It's doing election vows for a lot of games. Unfortunately, the Christian People's Party is one of the most difficult parties to get into. It was the party that promised the most in the election campaign, but one of those who has now had the most difficulty following up the pediatric conciliation, not least through their Minister for Children and Family Laila Davøy, who has done everything she can to make difficulties around this. It is no secret that SV has been against the cash support – we have been doing that all along, and we are still. There is no freedom of choice for a family that does not have kindergarten. That is why SV says that we want to build kindergartens at an affordable price. We actually did. We don't have full babysitting now, but that means that today we spend $7 billion more on kindergartens than we did before the kindergarten agreement. [[The President clubs.]] This large-scale investment is thanks to the opposition on Stortinget – unfortunately against the Government – halfway.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25.ana.ud2414e780	The President will request that the time for the replication be kept.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25.ana.ud2414e783	It may seem like a paradox that owners of many billions of assets are to be relieved by the removal of property taxes, but the situation for many small business owners is that they have significantly tied up with capital in warehouses, in buildings and in production equipment. So many of these have a considerable wealth, not in money, but in invested capital that creates jobs for very many people. Many of these enterprises have low profitability despite their significant wealth, and there are many examples of business owners who have to clear equity or even finance the loan property tax in order to pay it. Does SV consider this to be unproblematic, or will SV consider the proposal that the Central Party has made to ask the Government to issue a tax on wealth, which implies the release of economic assets? It is possible to delineate this and to find models that ensure the distribution reasons that both the SV and the Central Party wish to achieve, which can help businesses to build up sound equity and thus secure jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25.ana.ud2414e790	We're positive to look at ways of fair taxation, but the wealth tax is the part of our capital tax system that is progressive. That means that in terms of employee income, we can be taxed progressively depending on how much we have. The wealth tax is the progressive element that makes it necessary to tax for greater wealth. We know that it may be unfortunate for some, but as long as you do not have a better and more accurate system, SV believes that what we have to do with the property tax is to give greater relief to the bottom tax, so that more people do not pay any property tax. But we also have to make sure that there is no discount on the largest assets. And this, I think, is the big paradox that this government is giving huge discounts on the wealth tax to those who have the most. There are probably many good reasons to give some tax relief, but then it should be to those sitting at the bottom of the table, and not to those sitting at the top of the table. Why in the name of heaven we shall give relief to Rimi-Hagen, is to me completely incomprehensible. But it is no wonder that they climbed with the glasses on the Holmenkol lock on the day the state budget was presented, for it is those who live there, who have really received massive tax relief with this government.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25.ana.ud2414e799	The cord shift has thus been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25.ana.ud2414e802	We will today adopt the last budget for this downturn. Important Keywords for the Government Party have our, and are, workplaces, well-being and renewal. Over the period, aid has increased by DKK 4.3 billion and targeted measures have been put in place to combat poverty in Norway with a total of DKK 3.2 billion. In the health sector, waiting lists are reduced by an average of 20 pst. There has been a strong increase in the number of kindergartens, and the cash support has been continued. The voluntary sector has been strengthened, including: in the case of a significant increase in the grant deduction and in the case of a continuation of compensation for service VAT. Our government has also invested heavily in the environment and renewable energy. The protection areas in Norway have increased by 50 pst., and the investment in alternative energy has been strengthened, for example. by means of a record bet on research media for the management of gas power. In the case of public transport, the Sem declaration is fulfilled, with the result that we now see an increase in the use of collective means of transport. This happens after a period of stagnation and decline. This shows that during this period there has been a strong commitment to well-being and renewal. A hallmark of our government is that she has shown both the ability, the will and the courage to govern the Norwegian economy. The economic barometers, and what we can see in the practical everyday life, show that the co-operation administration has been working on its economic policy. When the government took over, the central bank's interest rate was 7 pst. Now she's 1.75 pst. From being at the top of the interest rate, compared to our main trading partners, we now have the lowest interest rate. The krone price has fallen to a level that has strengthened the competitiveness of industry again. Economic growth is high, business optimism is rising, and unemployment is falling. It wasn't like that when our government took over the fall of 2001. We then saw a development in a direction that Norwegian businesses could not live with in the long run. Weighted international business cycle and ongoing pressure in the Norwegian economy, large interest rate differentials with trading partners and a Norwegian krone that remained strong, were like a heavy threat to many jobs. In particular, the tight budget line for 2003 was a turning point. It was not all those who waved for the 2003 budget, but the business community is against it. And take action. The fall in interest rates began late in 2002 and, over the new year 2003, the consequence of the fall in the price of Norwegian kroner was also gradually reached. Furthermore, income policy cooperation has strengthened the competitiveness of Norwegian industry. The government’s firm grip was strongly involved in the Norwegian economy’s getting what the governor called a ‘soft landing’. Today's draft budget shows that the Government will pass on a firm and responsible governance of the Norwegian economy. We are glad that the Progress Party in the budget negotiations has been both tidy and constructive and through it has contributed to a positive consensus on a good budget for 2005. The Advance Party must have such an absolute propensity. In the 2005 draft state budget, the Government is keeping up its commitment to well-being. A good distribution profile has been passed, including: by the fact that kindergartens, psychiatry and the poor in the world are still in focus. By means of the budget agreement, the municipalities together are extra 3 billion kroner in addition to the 2.75 billion dollars that the government had already entered in the budget. This allows municipalities to maintain and develop welfare services before care, schooling and growth, in other words, make everyday life better and safer for most people. The government is strongly committed to reducing the distance between being inside and outside the labour market. This is why a scheme is being put in place in which unearned pensions can be used as a pay supplement for employers. Otherwise, the number of workplaces for people with disabilities will increase by 2 000. Good business conditions are decisive for growth and for well-being. Good framework conditions provide survival and development opportunities, create optimism, and stimulate further development and renewal. All of this is again important in order for Norwegian business to be up-to-date, to assert itself in competition and to secure existing jobs and to create new ones. The introduction of the TaxFUNN has provided an important hub for industrial renewal and development. In 2005, this scheme could generate DKK 1.8 billion for research and development. Under the budgetary agreement, it is hard to say that unsolicited research is also to be carried out within the scheme. It will further stimulate innovation, especially for small enterprises in the start-up phase. There will be four national seed funds linked to the university cities of Oslo, Bergen, Trondheim and Stavanger. The aim of these funds is to stimulate practical business development based on the highly skilled and highly skilled scientific and scientific community we find at the universities in this country. The 2005 State budget introduces a building loan guarantee scheme of DKK 2,5 billion for the shipyard. This will improve the potential of exposed coastal shipyards to grow in a hard international market. The budget agreement means that the period of leave until 1 July of the following year will continue to be up to 42 weeks. Furthermore, the employer’s period of leave is reduced from 10 to 5 days. Over the four-year period, the tax burden on business has been eased, including: in the event of the closure of the investment levy and in the case of easy depreciation rates. In the case of taxes, the Government has also provided, and received, a tax notice containing a comprehensive tax reform. The aim of the tax reform is to have a simpler and fairer tax system. One of the main causes is the removal of the greatest injustice in today's tax system, namely the difference between the tax on the exchange of shares and the tax on the income of employees. As it appears today, it is not only unfair, it also provides the most adaptive possibilities for the most resource-intensive. This is what we're going to do. The tax reform also means that the sharing model can be decommissioned. In this budget comes the first steps to introduce this reform. Most of the introductions come in 2006 and 2007. The new tax system will also comply with the EEA requirements. Voluntary sector is an important area of the Christian People's Party. From 2003 onwards, it has been possible to obtain a tax reduction for gifts of up to NOK 6000 for voluntary work. This has been a huge success, and many organisations report large income growth and as a result of increased activity. This creates a positive link between organisation and donor. That's good! So the result is not only more money in the cash register, but it increases the commitment and improvement of the important welfare provision provided by voluntary teams and organisations. On the basis of this, we will double the gift deduction from next year. From 1 January 2005, the ceiling for gifts entitled to a tax deduction is set at NOK 12 000. This will provide an additional incentive for the invaluable and irreplaceable work of voluntary teams and organisations. Since the service tax was introduced in 2001, there has been a clear commitment that voluntary teams and organisations should not lose out on it. It has been a goal that this should happen in a simple and accurate way. Here, different methods have been tried out, but we've come completely to the goal. For this reason, the budgetary agreement now agrees that a review of the arrangements will be carried out in the revised spring and, where appropriate, proposals will be made to ensure that the intentions are preserved. Olof Palme once said that politics is to be desired. The cause we have led us today, shows firm willingness not only to secure a good budget, but also to give a safe and good everyday life with good living conditions for most people. This budget also gives business good living conditions, and the important societal tasks of voluntary teams and organisations are provided with the necessary fertilisers and good cropland.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25.ana.ud2414e849	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25.ana.ud2414e852	The Christian People's Party is slipping, but they must wait until they come to the Storting with their budget before they can show proper joy. Last year, the Labour Party supported them so that they could get through to their cases, and this year the Progress Party. But it's important to rejoice, of course. I have a question for Sørfonn. What makes the Christian People's Party think it's a good distribution policy that those who make 1.2 million. kr, according to the Government’s proposal, a tax bill of NOK 29000 – now it has been reduced under the agreement to NOK 19 000 – and that those who claim NOK 200000 will receive a tax bill of NOK 3600? Is this good policy for distribution? When it comes to health – that is my next question – Sørfonn says that they have come out well. Health West hasn't even managed to create a budget, because it's so hard to show what the consequences are, and they know that there's going to be an uprising here. And then Sørfonn says that Health West is the winner. What is it that Sørfonn knows that Storting doesn't know?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25.ana.ud2414e861	Yes, it must be allowed to rejoice. And maybe this congregation should also occasionally express a little bit more joy and satisfaction. But when it comes to fiscal policy, I have a strong suspicion that the Labour Party is talking to better-informed people. For what they do is they grab a little bit of a tool to eliminate the greatest injustice in the tax system, that is, to reduce the difference between capital taxes and income taxes. That's what the Workers' Party is talking about. So the Workers' Party will remove the sharing model, but they don't want the same percentage of capital taxes and income taxes, as we understand them. What do they do? Then they open a door for customization and for tax evasion of dimensions. What we see today in the exploitation of the divisional model will be too trifling to count on what will be the consequences if what I perceive as a lack of consistency in the Labour Party's arrangement is correct.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25.ana.ud2414e868	I note that the representative Sørfonn can also rejoice over the budgetary agreement with the Progress Party, and we believe that he has reason to do so. We simply believe that the Progress Party has led the budget in the right direction. We've given it a more social tax profile. We have got lower food moms, lower properties and more for municipalities and hospitals. We therefore believe that the budget has improved with the help of the Progress Party. I also notice that it is not just us who believe it. According to Aftenbladet mein Bjørg Tørresdal that «a good budget settlement has become even better with Frps help». My question to the representative, Mr Sørfonn, is whether he agrees with his colleague and colleague in the Financial Committee that the budget has now been improved with the assistance of the Progress Party than the Government itself received.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25.ana.ud2414e877	It is important to put forward a good budget proposal, but a good budget proposal has zero value if it does not become multiple for a good budget, because that is what we are going to do. Unfortunately, this government doesn't have multiples in the hall, so we're dependent on getting an appointment with someone here in the hall. The party of progress has behaved neatly, respectfully and constructively in the process we have had, and has helped us to establish a good budget for which we can be guided. In this budget, the main lines of the Government's policy have also been pursued. I'm very pleased with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25.ana.ud2414e882	In view of the lightly amorous tone that prevails between the Right and the Advance Party in this debate, it is natural to ask the representative Sørfonn whether it might not be the government parties that would have the most used for these life courses that the Christian People's Party is so actively marketing, because here it is sprinkling in every direction regarding the attitude of the Advance Party. We heard on the radio this morning at the latest that Kåre Kristiansen, the veteran of the Christian People's Party, called for cooperation with the Progress Party, while the Prime Minister said otherwise. It is vital for the voters to know clearly whether it is such that a vote for the Christian People's Party, seen in the light of the conciliation we have on the table now, can be a voice for a possible government participation for the Advance Party, or not. So I'm going to ask the representative of Sørfonn to either confirm or disclaim that the Christian People's Party has previously said that it is not appropriate to cooperate with the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25.ana.ud2414e888	The President would like to point out that the lines were supposed to be for the state budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25.ana.ud2414e891	I can only stress that both life courses and good relationships between people are important, and there can never be too much of it. I have already confirmed several times that we are satisfied with neat, respectful and constructive negotiations with the Progress Party. It helps us get multiples for a good budget. But I'm not going to jump under the chair, either, that there are major political differences between the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party. There are major political differences when it comes to aid, alcohol, the environment and biotechnology and genetic engineering. We can list a bunch of these things. In a budgetary agreement, such political differences may fade away. It's a clear example of this. But there is much worse in a binding political agreement or in government cooperation. Therefore, it is not appropriate to enter into closer political cooperation with the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25.ana.ud2414e900	During the Cooperative Government, the growth in household consumption has increased by almost 50 pst. more than under the central government, while in the public sector there has been a reverse. The first question is, how does the Christian People's Party defend a policy of strongly increasing private consumption against the Christian administration, which should be a foundation for the politics of the Christian People's Party? The budget agreement now involves the creation of the municipalities' tax failure and a matter which is actually the proposal of the Central Party, namely a loan arrangement for the renovation of church buildings. The representative of Sørfonn has expressed greater pleasure in the budgetary agreement than in the government's draft budget. Is it so that the Christian People's Party is dependent on the Advancement Party for its policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25.ana.ud2414e909	There were several questions here, so I can try out telegrams. When it comes to the growth of private consumption, one can only go back to the processing of the credit message a short time ago. There I myself spoke for the cause and strongly warned against the developments we have, with a strong increase in the debt of the house sounds – that is, the loan rate. When it comes to correcting the tax deficit for municipalities, we are very pleased with what we have achieved in the budget under way. From time to time it seems that the Center Party has a sea of means to give in this context. This was not the case when the Central Party had control both in the Ministry of Finance and in the Ministry of Local Affairs. Then there was an actual decline in the free income of the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25.ana.ud2414e918	Sørfonn and the Christian People's Party are very pleased with most of the state budget, as well as with the tax arrangement. That's what I think people out in many regions and districts should notice. The biggest challenge facing many regions and districts in this country is to take care of the construction. This is mainly a lack of work and jobs. However, many are involved in keeping up the construction by taking the burden of either a long day's commuting or a week's commuting where they live on a hive or in a vomit. What's happening to the state budget and the tax arrangement is that there's going to be large tax credits given to people with millions of income. At the same time, commuters are expected to lose their extra cost by staying away from the world, and, secondly, they will be less deducted from commuting to and from the world. Does Sørfönn and the Christian People's Party believe that this is good district policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25.ana.ud2414e923	Rudihagen and I are probably a few that it's important to keep up the bus in the district. We are doing more in this budget, for example. with the national seed funds, where we aim to nourish the heavy research effort of a fin in the university environment. This could mean jobs out in the districts. The question probably focused on the cautious change made in the travel deduction schemes for commuters. When it comes to that piece, it's hardly deciding whether people want to live in the district. But I'm a little bit surprised that the Labour Party is attacking small items in the tax system, while on the other hand they're willing to still let the cash off when it's really big, this with capital incomes related to the sharing model.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25.ana.ud2414e930	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25.ana.ud2414e933	The budgeting process in the Stortinget shows – even this year – that the Christian People's Party is receiving more support for its heart issues in negotiations with the parties other than those in the Government. There is great joy in the party both here in the corridors and in the grassroots over additions to the municipalities, for transportation, to hospitals and for the maintenance of churches and schools, and not least over the reduction of taxes on sickness and a more equal tax policy proposed by the Bondevik II government. Improvements in these areas would be greater if the agreement had been concluded with the second part of the opposition. Why, then, does the Christian People's Party choose to go further in cooperation with the Right Party in the Grace of the Advance Party? The Progress Party has strong aspirations to cut into districts, agriculture and unhelp in its programme, as well as increasing the privatisation of welfare services. The grassroots in the Christian People's Party seems to prefer the policy described in the joint comments with the Center Party to the last long-term programme. I think the Workers' Party has approached that line, while the Christian People's Party centrally has gone in the opposite direction. The Central Party will have a new political course for Norway, a new political course that can create a level playing field throughout the country, with faith in developments throughout Norway. Through a more active financial policy, we will contribute to good and innovative communities throughout Norway. We believe Norway is becoming poorer by the government's savings policy, which leads to centralisation, increased social security costs and lower value creation. The Central Party's alternative budget provides more than 10 000 annual works, according to an analysis by the SSB. It ensures that local welfare, schooling and care for the elderly can be improved by adding 6.7 billion more to the municipal sector. We are proposing an extra 4.4 billion for commercial purposes, transport, broadband, better access to capital and lower taxes and taxes for business. We spend an extra 1.5 billion on health businesses to remove health cows and avoid depopulation, and we go against increased self-employment in the case of disease. We want to remove the food tax and go against reductions in the top tax, as proposed by the Government. To create and secure so many jobs, the Centre Party spends 4.4 billion more of its oil money than the Government in its proposal. I fully agree with the Minister of Finance's comment on the perspective statement, that it is an illusion to believe that oil revenues can save the economy and welfare services. The centre party has long argued that we need to facilitate greater, more knowledgeable and more effective workforce growth. We hope that this time we can have a majority for our proposal that each annual budget should contain a labour account with a special overview of the reserves we have, and what is done to enable them to be processed and used. The reserves are several hundred thousand people and, according to estimates in the last long-term programme, can correspond to twice the social value of the total oil wealth. The Central Statistical Bureau has calculated that the additional consumption of the Centre Party from the Oil Fund would not increase price increases and interest rates as they are now. In the past, the SSB has made estimates of the impact of a more active fiscal policy in order to increase employment in recent years. One of the results is this: if the tax rate granted in the last four years was instead allowed to increase activity in the private and public sectors, there would be 47,000 more in work — without increased prices and interest as a result, they have calculated. And that's a line like this that the Center Party has led these years. Can we hope that such reports will be read in the Ministry of Finance? The clear growth we have seen in the Norwegian economy gives us few new jobs in Norway. The low interest rate stimulates increased private consumption and a strong increase in loans to households. In a new survey, industry invests little and has blacked out 80 000 jobs in five years if the framework conditions are not improved. At the top of your wish list is better roads. Increased sick pay costs for employers, more expensive leave and passive and unforeseeable industrial policies are typical measures that increase flagging. That the government doesn't understand it! Of the centrist's extra investment of 4.4 billion to a targeted and offensive industrial policy, 1.4 billion goes to transport and broadband. We want to reintroduce the rules of leave of 42 weeks and only three days' pay for the employer. We find it pointless to have half-yearly validity of such rules only for the purpose of the rule of action. Unpredictability the luxury must be called the government line. The centre party opposes imposing an increased pay obligation on employers in the event of sick leave and reducing tax deductions on commuters. We will extend the net pay system for seafarers. The centre party proposes that food wealth be exempt from property taxes, as is the case in Sweden, which our business life is asking for. In sum, our arrangement gives lower taxes to business. We propose that the fees for the Food Authority and the Brønnøysund Register be substantially reduced and that the new fees for aquaculture and fishing vessels be rejected. We're proposing 100 million. kr to a value creation programme for fresh fish, as well as to the proven scheme of local food funds, which the Bondevik II Government has abolished. In total, there are over one billion DKK in increased capital to create and secure jobs in the Central Party configuration. We find it a shame that the district billion that was adopted a year and a half ago remains untouched. That should be unnecessary. The central party proposes to compensate for municipal tax losses in 2004 and to increase by SEK 4.2 billion for 2005. This will amount to NOK 3.4 billion more than in the agreement. South-Trøndelag reports that there is a need far more than the agreement provides, in order to avoid cuts in school and care for the elderly. For the municipality of Melhus, the comparison provides compensation for the tax failure this year, but 3 million. NOK too little to continue today's offer and no possibility to repay the previous loss of SEK 15 million. kr. The Central Party option would ensure the same offer as today and given the opportunity to cover 1/3 of the deficit. The County Council of the South Trøndelag would have just enough to avoid further cuts with the Centerpart proposal, but would have to save 35 million. kr as agreed. The government's plan would mean a saving of 70 million. kr at the top of what they have taken before. And that would mean dramatic reductions in school provision. The centre party hopes that agreement on a plan can now be reached to correct the very difficult situation for the municipalities. Government parties must realise that the slimming of this sector has gone too far. Poorer schooling and care for the elderly are already the result. It is unworthy that the Government of the world's richest country disclaims responsibility for welfare services by feeding municipalities, while private wealth is growing rapidly. The centre party wants more attention to be paid to prevention in all areas of society. It is positive that there is now a solid majority for an action plan against diabetes. At the same time, it is strange that several of the same parties will have as low fees on chocolate and other sweets as in Sweden. The centre party believes that charges must be applied where they can help prevent damage to health and the environment. The increase in the tax on smoking tobacco has worked well. The tax reduction on spirits has also worked, but hardly positive for people. The centre party is proposing to remove the food tax, which means that food costs are reduced by almost 8 billion dollars on an annual basis. On average, this represents NOK 2 250 for all over 17 years. Everyone gains from this, including students without income and minimum pensioners. Low incomes and large food budgets receive relatively greater benefits. The removal of the food tax is therefore the most effective minimum deduction that can be expected. In addition, border trade will be significantly reduced. It will represent several thousand annual works in agriculture, the food industry, trade and transport. The State will receive increased taxes and VAT due to reduced border trade also on other goods. Null matmoms is a good distribution policy instrument, which takes better measures than other tax measures in terms of both residence, sex and salary levels. The worst tax measure for balancing next after the exemption from dividend tax is the reduction of the peak tax. They've got 80 pst. of the reliefs granted in recent years. With the government's plans for next year, women would get 20 pst. of the tax base and 40 pst. of the increased VAT costs – in other words, lower economic equality policies. The centre will not contribute to increasing differences between women and men and will ensure that all changes in taxes, taxes and pensions contribute to reduced differences. In my opinion, the tax relief must take the most account of the 70 pst. with gross wages and salaries below NOK 270 000. Taxes for this group will reach 90 pst. by the women. Another group that loses financially for the time being, they live alone. It is well documented that they have large additional costs in relation to families. Those with additional expenditure due to children have been compensated for by several costly reforms. The centre party believes that an economic compensation must also be granted to the residents alone. It is regrettable that we have not received a majority in favour of our proposal to oblige the Government to investigate such measures. In our budget, we propose a smaller tax deduction aimed at single residents with low incomes, but at the same time we realize that there is a greater need than that. I would then like to promote the proposal of the Central Party, the ones included in the vote, and what is distributed in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25.ana.ud2414e971	The representative Morten Lund has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25.ana.ud2414e976	There's no doubt that the Labour Party and the Center Party are united about a lot of our budgetary options. But when the representative Morten Lund on the one hand says that a person cannot base future well-being in this country on oil revenues, and on the other hand has a critical hold on the so-called rule of action, it becomes somewhat confusing. I have to remind the representative, Lund, that we actually spend $74 billion on our oil fund above the state budget. A little bit of activity corrected is $66 billion. But anyway, there's $24 billion more than the yield of the oil fund, which is what the so-called rule of action requires us to use. We are in a unique situation in this country. We're fantastically lucky to have as much money as we can spend. That's what the defence budget and our education budget cost, a sum that's not close to the other country that can be brought into the budget. Nevertheless, the Centre Party will continue to use more and more. Is there no limit to the use of oil revenues?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25.ana.ud2414e983	The centre will spend SEK 4.4 billion more of the oil money to invest in increased value creation to bring unemployment down. That's what our strategy is. We think it is completely wrong as it has been done in recent years, as the oil money has been used up at the end of the year to cover increased unemployment costs and increased sick leave, which we have then received because of a passive industrial policy. We want an active business policy to increase value creation to get people to work. And we have presented many, many good suggestions for that, and I think the Workers' Party will agree with most of those proposals. Oil revenues are high. We have a return on oil revenue as they stand abroad, at approximately. 4 pst. Road investment would have resulted in a much greater return. Investments through local food funds would have given a much greater return than the 4 pst. We would have been left in many ways – not least through reduced social security costs, which I have had to deal with.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25.ana.ud2414e993	During the budget negotiations, I received an e-mail from a farmer in Hardanger. He was nervous because he feared that the negotiations would lead to increased use of oil money, in a situation where the farming industry is very stressed in relation to profitability. They've got low prices, and they've had a strengthened dollar rate in recent years. He added a table that showed how much his company would lose if the dollar price increased by e.g. Ten cents. These are pure-bred district workplaces, where enterprises export about 100 pst. of what they produce. And this warning also comes from the National Association of Technology Enterprises, which organizes thousands of jobs out in the districts. I am quite satisfied that the budgetary agreement does not involve increased use of oil money. So it's pretty strange to see that the Center Party is doing exactly the opposite, they're spending NOK 4.4 billion more. My question is: what is the response of the representative Lund to the businesses in the districts, which would obviously have major problems if the policy of the Central Party were implemented?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25.ana.ud2414e1000	Our answer to these companies is to refer to the experience of recent years, where one has spent DKK 10 billion more each year than what has been budgeted, precisely because the expenditure on unemployment and sick leave has increased with the policy pursued by the Government. The additional use of oil money has not led to price increases or to an increase in interest rates in Norway. The interest rate has fallen this year, and that is because the Government has pursued a slightly different policy than it did in 2001 and 2002. All experience thus shows that increased use of oil money in today's situation, where there is free capacity in the economy, does not lead to price rises or interest rates. The Central Party has sent its proposal for an alternative state budget to the SSB to make calculations and confirm that what we have said is that in this situation there is room in the economy to spend more oil money. That is also what the SSB has calculated, on an independent basis. If one had given public budget appropriations equal to the tax bill in the last three years, we would have had 47,000 more working. Then we had a completely different social account.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25.ana.ud2414e1007	There was some concern in the representative’s posts about the border trade, which affects Norwegian farmers and Norwegian jobs, and which also gives us a good deal of other disadvantages. The only lot that has proposed to increase the alcohol tax in this setting is the Senter Party. No one else has protested against the Government's line of nominal continuation from last year – or, as the Progress Party has proposed, to significantly lower them down to Swedish level. What I'm asking is not the opinion of the Central Party, that they want to increase the taxes on alcohol, but the reason. The justification is that a common Nordic front initiative has been taken to maintain a restrictive alcohol policy. Does the Central Party really believe that this initiative will produce results that will make it not a problem for Norway in 2005 to have a completely different tax from Sweden?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25.ana.ud2414e1016	The reasons for the central party’s position on alcohol taxes are prevention — of health damage — of increased violence in society. It's well justified through many, many investigations that this is the case. When the alcohol prices go down, the factors that I've just mentioned come to an end. This has been proven by experience from Finland and other countries. And that's probably a lot of support for what the Council of State is now working on, that we have to try to get others with us on a different footing. Because it is not possible for everyone to try to get to the lowest level of charges that exists at all, within the usual travel distance. We hope that there will not be a majority for the Progress Party line, where it is to do away with such charges, but that the Government is able to resist, and continues to work after the line they have had. But we would have liked it to have gone the other way, that the fees would have been slightly higher.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25.ana.ud2414e1023	There is no doubt that the Centre Party – and to the extent that the Workers' Party – and SV have a number of significant items in the budget that we have to deal with today. I have especially looked at the business page. I see that here the Center Party has some happy bets that we're quite a few with them in. Among other things, the Central Party has embraced SV's proposal to set up a fish value creation program and set aside money for it. It seemed to me to be very happy, after a co-conspirator's nutrition committee in ours agreed that it was a good proposal, and asked the government to come back with it. I thought it was great that the Center Party followed this in its option. This will be a good value-making strategy for the fisheries industry in relation to quality and niche production. But I can't find the parallel on the agricultural side at the Center Party. Yes, we have a value creation program for agriculture, but I can't find the theme of organic farming named in one word at the Center Party in the Agriculture Framework. Can SV count on the Centre Party's support for a commitment to organic farming, or is organic farming only for those who are particularly interested?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25.ana.ud2414e1032	The centre party has been eager to get to the value creation programme for agriculture, and we want to get a similar for fish. We've also been involved in getting one for forestry. In recent years, the value creation programme for agriculture has resulted in a whole range of niche producers who are gradually starting to be able to do well, because they have also received quite good public assistance. When it comes to seeing organic production and betting on it, we haven't been as eager as SV at that. But we've thought that the usual Norwegian agricultural production is ecological in relation to what we find abroad, and it's important that we can keep a volume production in Norway at a reasonable price, which we don't do with the climate we have, and within organic production limits. But we will continue to support what is official Norwegian policy, and try to achieve the objectives of the scale of organic production in Norwegian agriculture.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25.ana.ud2414e1039	The centre party will give more to most people in this budget, and we've been used to it in a way. But small children's families will get less with their Center Party arrangement. The central party's cash support model is initially inflating the freedom of choice, but even worse: the central party wants a socialist government after the next elections, and they want to contribute and participate in such. Does family policy mean so little to the Center Party? The centre party knows that the cash support has been lost by such a government, to the detriment of many families of children, to the detriment of families in pig-grown areas, to the detriment of many who have finally received some compensation from the community when they care for their own young children. Can the centre party really take responsibility for such a backward step? And does the representative Morten Lund really believe that the centre party voters can accept it? The centre party is still creating amazement. The party will now have a pole hall in all municipalities. Does one then promise good, secure communities? It is well documented that increasing availability means increasing consumption, increasing power and increasing damage, and there are now 200,000 children turning to Saturday. Does the Center Party continue to abandon all previous family political scandals?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25.ana.ud2414e1046	The centre party has the cash support model that requires us to provide cash support to those who choose to be at home with their children. We have set the lowest income limit of NOK 100,000. After our calculations, there will be approximately one third of the recipients of the cash support who will lose it. We do not believe that the cash support is lost even if it is a government change. We are going to argue for our model, and many of the evaluations that have been around the cash support indicate that it is the one that should have been selected all along, because it is the one that would have given the most association between parents and children. With regard to pole sales in all municipalities, we believe it is an advantage that the sale of alcohol takes place in organised forms, that people have access to a legal product, but that it takes place through a wine monopoly. And one of the things we discussed last time we had an EU fight was: Can we preserve the wine monopoly under an EU membership or an EEA agreement? This might indicate that this is also one of the questions that we might lose in the future, because we got this EEA Agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25.ana.ud2414e1053	The cord shift has thus been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25.ana.ud2414e1056	I've said that before, but we tolerate hearing it again: the co-operation government's economic policy is producing good results. Norway has low unemployment, low price growth and low interest rates. We're once again in the hands of the UN of one of the world's best countries to live in. There is no lack of good purposes that need more money from the state. But the co-operation administration has a responsibility to conduct a responsible and disciplined fiscal policy. A disciplined fiscal policy is our contribution to securing and creating jobs, keeping the krone price low and strengthening Norway's competitiveness internationally and maintaining a low price increase and a further low interest rate. Nothing seems more unsocial than high interest rates. Private individuals, municipalities, businesses and not least young people who are to be established for the first time will be affected. Under this government, interest has gone from 7 pst. up to 1,75 p.m., and the Norwegian krona has a total weight of 12 p.m. In the course of the four years of the Cooperation Government, a increase the rights of collective action by 4 billion kr increase the permissions for road purposes by 3 billion kr increase the permissions of the psychiatry reform, so that she is now in the loop By targeting $3.2 billion to reduce poverty, among other things. In the United Kingdom, the number of problem drug users among drug users in the EU increased by about half the number of drug users in the EU. We don't smear thin outwards to everyone, but close to those who need it the most. We have fully financed the quality reform before higher education, and we have increased the research effort by NOK 5 billion. Security for each individual is one of the pillars of a democracy. This takes the Government seriously. The police in this budget has been strengthened by 500 million. kr and in the budget agreement of 215 million. Extra kroner. The number of settlements has increased by 320 since 2002, and in 2005 we have an additional 87 places. Yes, the settlement queue for Norwegian prison is the lowest since December 2001. We have increased industrial development, renewal, conversion and optimism in agriculture and increased investment in forward-looking alternative energy. The Norwegian tax and pension system is overmoded for reform. Reforming these systems is challenging, because it is easy to hang on to individual elements and forget about your health. The left is proud to sit in a government that has dared to address these challenges. The tax-policy grips The cooperation regime will take next year, with a visible left stamp. Left has an ambition for a transition from red to green tax, or more popular Norwegian: a transition from tax on work to tax on consumption and pollution. Equal income must be taxed equally. Current tax discrimination on capital and labour income manifests itself in the sharing model. The sharing model promotes through low tax corporate owners who take on the tie once a month and attend the board meeting, and punishes corporate owners who actively participate in the day-to-day operation of the enterprise through high taxes. The left has been fighting the split model for 12 years, and the time for saying is now coming. The split model will now be removed. The second key to the left is to reduce the marginal tax. The cooperation administration has also been delivered here. Lower marginal taxes are particularly important for those with low incomes and those who work part-time. Lower marginal tax means that you are left with more after tax on the last head. In other words, lower marginal taxes give clear incentives for increased labour input, making it easier to work out of an economic situation. I would like to pay tribute to the Progress Party for taking co-responsibility. Negotiations in the autumn have taken place without the dramatic and media-related elements of which we have seen the signs of negotiations in the past. The left is the social liberal party in Norwegian politics. We are the radical centre party that stands for freedom for the individual and responsibility for each other. In this debate that otherwise we hear a so-called left side that gives the impression of having a monopoly on justice and social sensitivities. It's not like that. Public welfare schemes have grown up at NOK 43 billion this landfill period. It's not true when it's said that well-being is being built up. The government is busy laying the foundations for future well-being. That's why we need to keep an eye on value creation, knowledge and a level of taxation and a tax system that brings new growth. It's far from unsocial; it's a good social and forward-looking policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25.ana.ud2414e1098	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25.ana.ud2414e1102	The Labour Party believes that there is hardly anything more important than providing training to children, care for the elderly and health services to those who are ill. However, the possibility of providing a good service to the population in these areas depends on local authorities having enough money to provide and develop the services. Does the representative, Mr Vihovde, think that the Left has now contributed to the maintenance of services in the municipalities? I now know that the representative Vihovde will come in with the fact that she has been involved that there are now 800 million. kr extra in free resources. But this believes the Workers' Party is too small. Is not the Left concerned that there are now desperate local politicians around the country who have to cut down on the offer to their inhabitants, put down elderly centres, offer to mentally retarded and leisure clubs? Is this the freedom left to offer its local politicians?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25.ana.ud2414e1109	I could have thought that the Labour Party had been with the Left and said: let's give the municipalities the freedom to use the resources they get, let's end with ear-marking, let's go in and look at legislation, let's trust that our elected representatives are doing a real job. The working party has been involved in securing a kindergarten settlement where $6 billion are tied up. Is this to trust that our elected locals will be able to do the job? So I have to say, yes, the limits we have had, and the fact that we have had a reduction in the cost of sick pay, has made it possible for us to increase the fees to the municipalities. I'm happy with that. I think there are many unsolved tasks. However, the local government sector must also be involved and be responsible for having a low interest rate and a low exchange rate. Unemployment – as we also saw in the contours – at a high dollar rate, with a high interest rate, will provide a weak tax base for municipalities. More people in work give increased tax access to municipalities, and then I think we'll get a better welfare offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25.ana.ud2414e1116	I found it very positive that Vihovde roses the Progress Party for the budget agreement. As I have said before, the Progress Party is also pleased with the budgetary agreement. We believe that this agreement has given the budget a much more social profile than the government managed to achieve. We are also pleased with the good atmosphere between the Progress Party and the government party that we had during the negotiations and that was involved in this. But when I read the VG today, I am a little surprised. There goes Left's leader Lars Sponheim hard out saying that the Left goes out if the Right opens for the Progress Party, and he adds: ‘And it will not be silently separated.’ It goes on to say: ‘He also states a clear refusal to clarify formalised majority cooperation where FrP is involved, both before and after the 2005 elections.’ My question to Vihovde is: Is she in agreement with her party leader that formalised cooperation with the Progress Party is completely out of date?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25.ana.ud2414e1135	The left is a city center party. We're very happy with the government we're currently in. We're going to have to implement a lot of our policies. But we want to be a party that cooperates both on the left and on the right in politics. If one goes in and looks at the Progress Party's alternative budget versus the Government's budget, not to mention the Left's programme, one will see that there is a very large gap between the Progress Party and the Left in many different policy areas. But it can also apply on the other side. If you had taken the Socialist Left Party's budget and connected it up to the Left, you would also see that there was a very big difference. Being in the center, cooperating on both sides and getting the best solutions is what the Left will be on. As I said, we are very happy with the government and the government partners we have.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25.ana.ud2414e1142	The left has the Minister of Transport in this government and claims that they want to invest in the railways, because the railways are the most environmentally friendly means of transport. In this budget, the Government proposes to privatise and expose all railway operations and maintenance to competition. The railway works must be demolished, thousands of jobs must be removed around the country, the railway works should only be responsible for controlling private operators. This shall be implemented by 2009. This would mean putting railway safety on a competitive footing. Security is weakened, because the special skills and local knowledge are only available in the Norwegian railway system. In the United Kingdom, this was tried in the 1980s and 1990s under Major and Thatcher, with very negative results. Now they're turning. The UK Railway Agency now employs 18 500 maintenance workers. There would have been increasing criticism of privatisation. The maintenance had been ineffective and went at the expense of security, the chairman of the Network Rail, the British railway station, said to the BBC. 18 months later, the BBC reports major improvements in Network Rail. Instead of learning from the British, the Government wants Norway to make the same mistakes. How can Left call this bet on the railway?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25.ana.ud2414e1153	The government has invested $4 billion more in public transport during this period. I was hoping that the Socialist Left Party could give us some credit for that. If one goes in now and looks at the reorganization of the state road system: it has given us more space for each krona. In fact, we believe that this is also possible when it comes to the railways, by making people better and allowing people to compete. In fact, we believe that this will strengthen the railway effort. Then the representative shows to England. But he doesn't refer to all the other countries that have done exactly the same and that have achieved very good results. But one thing I'm going to promise the Socialist Left Party and the Storting: it's never going to be about gambling with security. I believe that I can promise on behalf of the Minister for Transport. But getting more competition, getting more for the money and getting a better offer both in the central and in the districts I actually believe that we can achieve this.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25.ana.ud2414e1162	The left’s leader often and warmly argues that Norwegian agriculture needs to profile itself on quality and niche products, including tourism and tourism. Just in the Western regions where tourism and tourism are a growing industry, we are constantly experiencing communities that are connected by race. The last one today is many connected sections in More and Romesdal. People live and work in security. In the setting, the Left shows that they are very happy with the transport budget. Is the real representative from Hordaland happy with the bet, or the lack of bet, when it is indebted to ear-marked means of racial protection? With today's promises, it will take 30 years for all known projects to be secured. Or does the representative think that these postponement states should have to take off the ordinary licenses in order to secure their projects?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25.ana.ud2414e1169	Let me start by saying that we in the Left are very pleased to have an agricultural minister who has now created a change, renewal and optimism in agriculture and the investment in niche production. We actually think this is very positive for District Norway. So I could put Göran Persson and say that when it's race, we're proud, but we're not happy. Here we have some major challenges. But the government has set its own means of racial protection. We have increased access to the State Road Service. Then I can hope that the Center Party agrees that it has been very reasonable to reorganize the State Road Service – we have got more for each krona – so that we can really bet on these sections and bets in District Norway. But it requires an increase in the bet on public transport, so that we don't spend the money on large-scale motorway projects to solve the queues in our central struts. I'm recording that the Center Party has only seen 10 million. kr extra for collective investment in its budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25.ana.ud2414e1176	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25.ana.ud2414e1179	In this financial debate I want to talk about the welfare of most people and the security of the individual family. As a value-conservative centre party, the Coastal Party emphasises that municipalities should be better placed to solve the tasks they are assigned to them. It is also important for the state to maintain local hospitals and for families to have a better chance of coping with themselves. The municipalities are still assigned new tasks. At the same time, many municipalities experience tax revenue failures, new costs and small appropriations from the country. The result is that municipalities are forced to sell property, privatise, demolish municipal services and introduce or increase the municipal property tax. In order to prevent such a development, the Coastal Party in this budget will propose a net extra NOK 6 billion in free resources for the municipalities. A better local economy will also provide many new jobs. The state must show that it is able to handle the responsibilities it has for hospitals. It is important for people's safety that there is not too much geographical distance to the local hospital. It is also necessary to ensure that individual hospitals have the necessary medical skills to deal with the need for rapid treatment. If this is not done by the State, the reorganization of hospitals will have to be reconsidered. In today's pushed-up competition society, it is becoming increasingly important to ensure basic security for individuals. The coastal party will work to strengthen the right to income. We go in to reduce the employer’s period of compulsory pay from 10 to 5 days. We support the Workers' Party's proposal to reduce the number of waiting days for daily allowances from five to three days and reduce the requirement for minimum income from l,5 G to 1.25 G. I'll show you the other way to Innst. O. No 10 for 2004-2005, chap. 35.7 and cap. 35.8. In order to ensure employment and a sound wage income in Norway, the Coastal Party will fight against social dumping. A brutal competition for work and well-being will undermine the rights of workers and will lead to an increasing wage gap in society. Against this background, the Coastal Party is saying no to the EEA Agreement, which will end immigration congestion towards EU countries. The pension scheme is a hot topic. It is quite incomprehensible that private schemes such as fishing pensions and seafarer pensions are coordinated with the disability pension of the population. The Coastal Party feels a special responsibility for promoting safety at sea and asserting Norwegian sovereignty in our economic zone. We're going against the closure of coastal radar stations. We will also increase the allocation of the Maritime Defence Agency to ensure a strong preparedness in the northern regions in cooperation with the Coast Guard. Monitoring our marine areas are important tasks. Similarly, we need to get out of the talk stage when monitoring the seabed, and start this work. It's an important job. Other nations are already monitoring our seabed. Furthermore, it is also important to maintain the welfare arrangements for fishermen. The Coastal Party will promote a tax policy that gives most families the ability to manage themselves. Therefore, we will lower taxes and taxes on necessities such as work, housing and food. In order to motivate private business and the public to hire more people, we need to reduce labour-related costs. We are therefore going in to reduce the employer’s fee. It is important to prevent Norwegian companies from being flagged out. The coastal lot will therefore liquidate the property tax on industry. We go further into net pay arrangements for seafarers. The coastal party believes that it is initially safer to own than to rent a owner-occupied dwelling. In order to facilitate the acquisition of a dwelling, the Coastal Party has proposed to abolish the inheritance fee and to reduce the document fee on the purchase of a dwelling. In order for the family to meet the costs of maintenance, payment of municipal services and service of any housing loan, the Coastal Party will liquidate the benefit tax on housing now. We will also gradually abolish the property tax and property tax. Food is a necessity. It therefore gives a good social distribution effect to abolish the food tax. The Coastal Party is for the reintroduction of municipal corporation tax. We want an arrangement where the place of production is the tax office, not the head office. As a step on the road, the Coastal Party supports the Government's proposal. The Coastal Party proposes to spend about 13 billion kroner more of the oil fund than the Government proposes. We believe that with today's price growth there is room to use more of the huge oil fund in the Norwegian economy. We stress that there is still a high level of unemployment, and that especially in the districts, unemployment and capacity are the highest, which the Coastal Party will make use of. Parts of the oil fund should be used to buy back out Flagged Key Enterprises and Natural Resources. Such buy-backs will not create pressure in the Norwegian economy. Moreover, the Coastal Party is opposed to Norway being sold bit by bit. I'm taking up our suggestions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25.ana.ud2414e1221	The representative Steinar Bastisen has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25.ana.ud2414e1226	A few days ago, I met a fish breeder who told me that the farming industry lost NOK 1.2 billion in 2003 due to strong crowns, and thus lost its profits in the industry. A stable value of krone and a price of krone are important, both for fisheries, for the farming industry and for the coastal export industry. Thus, we also need an economic policy that creates confidence and calm, and the Christian People's Party and the Government have done so. We've weakened the crown price, and we've got interest down, and it's secured jobs and given children's families with mortgages more liberal economy. The coast will spend 23 billion more of the oil money, according to the cancellation. It endangers coastal jobs, and the fishing industry may lose its profits again. My question to the Coastal Party is, how can we trust a party that is so free-handed with the money?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25.ana.ud2414e1233	When it was about NOK 23 billion more in oil money, I don't think that number is right. I said 13 billion more in my post. It is not the government alone that can determine the crown price, but the government can determine the interest level. It's the world market that decides how many dollars to buy and how many dollars to sell. The price of the crown and the level of interest is the international market that largely determines, not the Government, so there is a misinformation the representative came from this pulpit. When it comes to dropping hands with money, I think it would have been better to invest the money in the Norwegian Arctic structure than to place the money in unsafe papers on the world stock exchange, as it is today. Then we would have had something left when the world economy might collapse one day – it's harder to roll a road and remove it, and it's harder to take away a port that's already expanded.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25.ana.ud2414e1242	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25.ana.ud2414e1245	There is a lot of well-being in our municipalities for our inhabitants is being created. Municipalities have the decisive word when it comes to nursery services. This is also the case when determining the training for the pupils in the ground. These are the same municipalities as the one with the key when determining the activity of the old age home or when determining the amount of home help. So the municipalities are the big welfare builder in our country. It's in this perspective that we have to evaluate the economy of the municipalities. If the state gives the municipalities too little resources to help them in their daily life, it will immediately give them a weak supply. It affects our children, it affects the students who go to the elementary school, and it hurts the elderly who don't get the care they need after a long effort for society. If we take the municipal sector on the pulse, unfortunately, it's a little bright. Every day for many municipalities is difficult. The government has no hope of finding a solution. The Labour Party believes that the Government is running a too tight a line towards the municipalities. They get too little money for their welfare measures. The draft budget for 2005 is too weak – too weak. There is an economic imbalance in the municipal sector. There is currently no match for the tasks to be solved and the resources to be allocated. The error rate is stipulated to approx. $5.5 billion. The size must be cleaned up in the affected municipalities. Once the necessary balance has been made, it is necessary to allow for such a large amount of resources over a few years that the financial imbalances are corrected. It is the government party and the Progress Party's responsibility that this has not happened. They have simply voted against the necessary cleanup. Today, a quarter of the municipalities and counties are placed under state control. It tells a lot about the economic situation. Never before has the number of municipalities with heavy economic problems been so high. Unfortunately, there are several dark clouds: by the end of 2003, the deficit in the municipal sector was DKK 13.1 billion before loan transactions. That's 6 pst. of the revenue. The economic situation in the municipalities has deteriorated significantly under the Government of Bondevik II. On this basis, the Government is proposing a government budget for 2005 for which the growth of free revenues is DKK 1 billion. The government itself determines that next year's expenditure in the municipal sector will increase by DKK 1.4 billion due to changes in the population. So the growth in free income is not enough to cover the additional costs, probably enough. The consequences of such a policy will be that well-being will be built up in many places. It frameworks the provision of elderly people with a high level of care. Many elephants will receive poor training. The toughest frame is the student who needs the most support, guidance and active follow-up. The weakest party is the most vulnerable. That's critical. The Labour Party proposes that the next year, a total of SEK 4.1 billion will be set aside for welfare measures in municipalities and county councils in addition to the Government's proposal. Of these, $3.5 billion is going to come as growth in the free income. That'll give Trondheim the municipality $85 million. For more information on how to provide care for the elderly and for school. Fredrikstad municipality will have a profit from the Labour Party’s proposal of over 40 million. kr. For the municipality of Flora, the corresponding figure will be 7 million. kr. If the Labour Party had adopted its policy in Stortinget today, older people's care would have improved in quality. More elderly people would have extended care. Elevar wanted better training. It would create optimism. The welfare of women and men would have been far better. In addition to increasing the free revenues, the Labour Party will go in to allow NOK 0.6 billion more in ear-marked supplements than the Government proposes. These funds must include: used for the construction of kindergartens, for the maintenance of school buildings, for landlines and for regional development. This is a key area of activity for municipalities, where the need for funds is high. The agreement between the Government Party and the Advance Party will amount to 800 million. kr more to the local government sector next year than the Government has proposed. It is a burden, but it is far from adequate to solve the extensive tasks that local authorities have – and that they should have in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25.ana.ud2414e1268	For the fourth consecutive year of cooperation, the government has secured a majority of a government budget. The agreement between the Government Parties and the Progress Party on the budget for next year ensures a positive economic development. I want to commend the negotiating parties here in Stortinget – to use that expression – on both sides for having conducted neat negotiations, acted constructively and arrived at a good settlement. The Government is pleased to have secured a majority of the broad lines of the draft budget. In this way, we are laying the groundwork for continuing the positive economic development we are in. The economic growth in Norway is high, yes, in fact we are now completely at the top of Europe. Norway has risen faster from the economic wave valley than most of the countries around us. The labour market has improved further, and the outlook for the Norwegian economy is good in line with the picture we drew when we presented the budget at the beginning of October. In recent months, we have confirmed that private consumption, housing and oil investment are not the only driving force behind growth – both the export of traditional goods and industrial production have continued to grow moderately. Although the impression of international development is still largely characterised by good growth, the rise in the world economy is more uncertain now than a few months ago. High oil prices slow down growth, especially in China and Japan, and to some extent in the United States. For Europe, the oil price helps to keep back the rise you saw in the first six months. The deterioration of the dollar relative to the euro also contributes to greater uncertainty about the rise in the euro area. Employment in Norway has increased by a further 5,000 persons in the third quarter, after an increase of 10000 persons in the previous quarter. The tendency for more people to join the labour market as a result of the increased optimism remains. Unemployment, therefore, does not decrease as quickly, but it decreases. This positive development is, among other things, a result of the economic policy pursued. A tight fiscal policy that has received interest from 7 p.m. for under 2 pst. and thus gave business a krone price with which it is possible to live has been decisive. In addition, the social partners have reduced the wage growth. That's good, too. In addition, the Government has reduced taxes and taxes by approx. EUR 23 billion, if one also provides the basis for the 2005 budget agreement. It has helped to reduce the cost levels of enterprises, and has made it more profitable for individuals to work. It is good that optimism is back in business. It offers more opportunities to participate in the work and feel secure in everyday life. But optimism doesn't come of itself. It can be swindled if a policy is pursued that does not facilitate value creation, and therefore for well-being. A sharp increase in the use of oil money would increase the pressure on interest rates and, therefore, against the dollar. This would put many jobs in the export industry at risk throughout the country. At the same time, of course, high interest rates would be unfortunate for the individual's private economy, especially for those in the start-up phase who have large loans. It is therefore very positive that the budgetary agreement remains within sound budgetary limits. It strengthens confidence in the Norwegian economy. Financial policy thus provides no basis for strengthening the crown. I note that all the other budgetary options that have been presented are increasing the structural oil-corrected budget deficit, i.e. increasing the use of oil money. Increased taxes and taxes, as all three parties belonging to the socialist government alternative, are in favour, will also threaten well-being. For example, the combination of increased taxes on wealth and an anti-commercial dividend tax, to be introduced retroactively, would make it less attractive to invest in Norway. We cannot, as a small open economy in a globalised world, punish those who want to invest and create jobs here in the country. Many companies, which I've been visiting, tell me how unfair the property tax is. There are companies that may experience red numbers on the bottom line, but still have to take out money from the company in order to pay this tax. It is clear that there will be no more and safer jobs of maintaining, even tightening, the strange taxation of jobs. The government's tax arrangements, which will be dealt with in this room tomorrow, will make it more profitable to work. Our labour force and our knowledge are the basis for our well-being. It is therefore important that we carry out reforms that guarantee well-being today and for the future. We have a connection from, among other things, The working party to remove the splitting model. It is important, but the assumption in the tax communication to remove the sharing model is that the marginal tax rate on wages is about the same as for dividends. A large difference in the taxation of wages and salaries and dividends will give personal entrepreneurs and ordinary employees strong incentives to sell their labour through a limited liability company and to take out the return as a dividend. This is not, as has been mentioned in the earlier debate, a loophole, to which the Workers' Party makes its vote, but it is a doorstep of adaptability for those who have capital income and are able to juggle between capital and labour income. I don't understand how the Workers' Party, which with its history has strongly attacked, among other things. the sharing model, can now defend the abolition of any sharing rule and nevertheless have a great deal of distance in tax rates. It is a mystery to me, and it has not been clarified through the debate today, nor through previous debates. The government will come in a few weeks with a security reform of popular security. This will secure pensions and make it more profitable to work. The Pension Commission's proposal is a political compromise between high-level representatives of the political parties. The Government’s proposal for the main principles of a pension reform will therefore be based on the Commission’s suspension. It is my hope that the treatment of the Storting will reflect the common understanding that we all have that it is necessary to carry out reforms in time. That way, we can secure pensions now and avoid far more dramatic and painful cuts in the future. In the case of the Petroleum Fund, or the Oil Fund, as it is often called, the Chairman of the Financial Committee said in the first speech of today's debate that it is of no value to save in the Fund itself. It's an opinion The government doesn't share. It has significant value in real estate repositioning from petroleum activities to investments to hold a fund for the future as well. Our generation accounts do not go up if this generation uses up the wealth it takes up from the North Sea. Then we push violent problems – even much bigger than what the Pension Commission describes – over to the next generation. Therefore, it is generational solidarity, or generational responsibility, which is a better expression in my eyes, to have a petroleum fund, so that we are better equipped to meet the challenges of the future, not least in the case of pensions. I also want to add that last year the Stortinget asked for an investigation into the impact of using larger parts of the Petroleum Fund for investment, not just for consumption through the state budget, as we are doing now, but using larger parts of the investment in Norwegian society. We put down a group of the country's leading economists to analyse this, and their conclusion was very clear: Massive investment in Norway by the Petroleum Fund in addition to what the Swedish Social Fund is now doing could lead to a krone price and a pressure in the Norwegian economy that would in practice flag the industry out of Norway faster than anyone has ever imagined. So the overall Commission's warning was as follows: Keep the current division of labour between the Swedish Social Security Fund and the Petroleum Fund to ensure that there are viable conditions for industry still in Norway, as is the export industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25.ana.ud2414e1294	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25.ana.ud2414e1297	Just a week ago, the Minister of Finance presented the perspective statement. The government is here trying to describe the challenges ahead, and it becomes clear that it will be difficult and demanding in the future to be able to finance the welfare level, it will be difficult to fund pensions, and it will be necessary for us to work more. Yes, it is simply not time for new reforms, said the Minister of Finance when he presented the perspective message. Earlier this year, the same government in the tax report said that they went in to provide additional tax relief in the years ahead. Today, the Minister of Finance says that he is now up to NOK 23 billion, but he has promised at least another 12 billion. Then my question is: does the Minister of Finance not see that these are two messages that it is difficult to reconcile – on the one hand to claim that the common fund is so tight and small that we have to work more, and that we hardly have money for pensions, and on the other hand to go for a tax policy that further weakens the same common fund?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25.ana.ud2414e1306	The perspective message gives a message that work is the most important resource we have in this country. A tax policy that stimulates more work is therefore in the spirit of the perspective message and in the more concrete recommendations of the perspective message, to put it this way. Reforms that help us to get over from social benefits, from social security to work, have a double effect. It contributes to more work, higher tax revenue and less expenditure. Reforms that help pay off longer in work – the recommendations of the Pension Commission are among these – are also reforms that go in the same direction as the perspective communication draws up. I look forward with interest and excitement to the fact that the representative of Solberg can stand on this platform and recommend the proposals she has made in particular. The Pension Commission.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25.ana.ud2414e1313	For me, it becomes a contradiction when the Minister of Finance says that investing in his own business will lead to industry flagging straight out of Norway. But what is a fact is that parts of the shipping company, maritime activities, are about to fly right out of Norway, regardless of the use of oil money or not. It is a responsibility that this government must take. That is why my challenge goes right to the Minister of Finance: why is it that this government is so reluctant to base competitive framework conditions so that we can maintain the maritime cluster that has been one of Norway's most important economic areas for many, many decades? Now it's Fjord Line who's announced flagging out, and others have notified the same thing. My question to the Minister of Finance, in addition to what I have already asked, is: Will the Government now ensure that a rapid selection of experts will put in place the conclusions related to the State Aid Guidelines in good time before 30 June, so that Norway too can comply with the same rules that the EU is planning to introduce?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25.ana.ud2414e1322	For the sake of order, there are no deadlines in the EU that put the Storting under no date pressure to implement tax provisions. It's free up to us to do. But I can confirm that a sample will work to look at the tax conditions for maritime industries. I guess what I said was that I don't think it's a big need for Norway to invest more state resources in Norwegian business. We are among the countries of Western Europe that now have the highest state ownership. I don't think business primarily demands more state, but more freedom and incentives for private investment. It has often been said – and one has used Professor Porter, from Harvard in the United States, and his cluster theories as an example of this – that one should have special tax regimes for special industries. I have to admit that when Porter was last in Norway, he said very strangely. But one thing he was at least directly on a question from a newspaper, that he does not recommend, based on the cluster theory, special tax regimes for special industries. I hope several people have noticed that. There are limits to what Norway can also participate in in tax competition between other countries. There is at any time a overseas province that can offer lower taxes than Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25.ana.ud2414e1332	In the discussion on the business environment, the Right often wants to talk about tax relief and not about framework conditions in general. There is an increasing number of international economists and economic environments that now place greater emphasis on the interaction between society and the market and taxation. The last to do that is the World Economic Forum, which has been very impressed with the Scandinavian model. They bring forward the four Nordic countries as examples of competitiveness and nations that build competent business in this interaction and not unilaterally focus on tax relief. We have seen the same in reports from the World Bank. We also see that leading economic journals and newspapers highlight the same thing. Both The Economist and the International Herald Tribune emphasise that there is no one-sided focus on taxation that creates viable conditions of competition. One of the authors of the report says, among other things:\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘We found that social protection is good for business, it removes the burden of expensive health services and insurance from business and ensures a competent and trained workforce.’ My question is: will the Minister of Finance agree with such a reasoning that when talking about business, one must stop talking about taxes unilaterally, for which the Minister of Finance and the Right unfortunately often make a spokesman?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25.ana.ud2414e1344	It is the good representative of Djupedal who reads the publications of the World Economic Forum. He may also be able to include the conclusions, namely that Norway is actually increasing significantly on the ranking at the latest. Now, as far as I remember, we're in a sixth place in the world. If such a ranking is really a particularly sensible tool to measure what kind of economic theories work in the world, I'm not so sure, because the top places are divided by Nordic countries, Switzerland and the United States. So to what extent you can develop theories on that basis, I would like to challenge the representative to come back to a later debate. I agree that there is no reason to focus solely on taxes and framework conditions, and therefore the Government does not. But tax is pretty important, because it has something to do with what you can achieve on the bottom line. It has something to do with stimulation. If you want to follow SV's tool, it means that new companies that are on the stock exchange are broken by increasing taxes on wealth and a tax on dividends that is anti-investment. You can't get away with that. However, it is important to focus on good working conditions for others, research and development, education and innovation in general.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25.ana.ud2414e1351	In a new survey, the business community says that 80 000 jobs will be outsourced in five years if we do not get better framework conditions – there are many. Two of the main requirements for better framework conditions are more for road development and the removal of property taxes on working capital. The government's answer in the budget was to reject this. Instead, it was said that housing investment is now to be stimulated, employers are to pay more in sick pay, it is to be more expensive to permit, and the net pay system is to be abolished. Business is a little bit satisfied. The centre party is proposing to meet all these demands of business, and we want zero property taxes on working capital, as you have in Sweden. 2.5 billion dollars would have cost, of the 8 to 9 billion in total taxes on wealth. It could have been completed this year, if the government had wanted to. Why will the Government not help to stop the deflagration and closure of enterprises by the measures proposed by industry itself?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25.ana.ud2414e1362	Very familiar is not asking the business community for the Central Party's alternative state budget. In that budget line, the underlying expenditure growth is significantly higher than the growth of the total economy, i.e. that the public takes an increasingly large part of the cake. Business hasn't asked for that. Compared to the government's arrangements, the Centre's budget line increases the total amount of taxes and taxes by approx. DKK 2.5 billion. Business hasn't asked for that at all. However, business has also asked for a reduction in property taxes in general. The variant with a so-called drop-down only for commercial capital is an invitation to circumvention. So for anyone who wants to deposit their savings into a limited liability company, there is no wealth tax, while for anyone who is so simple – to use that expression – he simply saves without going through an AS, then is subject to a property tax. At least there is no social profile, and business has not asked for such methods either.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25.ana.ud2414e1369	For many years I have heard Per-Kristian Foss participating in financial debates in the Storting, also at the time when he was a fiscal spokesperson for the Right in opposition, and I remember all the debates where Foss has attacked the Workers' Party for tax increases and for tax increases. Even after the Minister of Finance has finished his speech, we have not heard in one word his reason that it was necessary to propose an increase in VAT to next year. I would like to hear that explanation. Could it be that in order to accommodate the tax reliefs that were important to Minister Foss, it was necessary to return a bill to consumers of 6 billion, as it was in the government proposal? I would like to hear the Minister of Finance's reasons why that was necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25.ana.ud2414e1378	For example, I can. quote some of the reasons given by the Governments of the Workers' Party when they increased VAT from 20 to 21, from 21 to 22, from 22 to 23, from 23 to 24 pst. This is the representative of Solberg at home. One of the reasons used was that it made sense to shift the tax from work to consumption. That is a reason I still think is very good. It's a tax change we're proposing, but with net total tax relief. The representative was in his first line within the perspective message. It has a clear message: We should stimulate more work. It is then to reduce the tax on labour a very sensible and good measure. The tax shift from income tax to VAT is part of the total package, but still with net total tax reliefs.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25.ana.ud2414e1387	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25.ana.ud2414e1390	In the course of this autumn's budgetary procedure, before the budget was presented, after it was presented and when negotiations were due, there was a public debate on the composition of cooperation in Norwegian policy. Different theories have been seen and developed in the future towards the decision-making process in 2005. Of course, special attention has been paid to what would happen in the autumn, in connection with a major choice next year. Now the situation is that the three non-socialist parties that are in government have succeeded, and the Progress Party through good, constructive and sometimes somewhat exciting negotiations, to arrive at a budgetary settlement, so that we get a clean process with regard to the entire state budget procedure. This is happening at the same time as the three socialist parties strongly coordinate, coordinate and want to appear as a credible red-green government option at the elections next year. As a result, changes in Norwegian policy are constantly taking place. We're on our way away from a thought where there were three blocks, one right block, one left block and one centre block, and we're on our way to the more traditional two-block system, with two main sides of the political picture in Norway. It is confirmed by this budgetary agreement. It is clear that everyone will look forward to 2005. We in the Progress Party have also drawn up a strategy and said what is our goal, namely that if there is a non-socialist majority, we want to contribute through talks and negotiations in the hope of finding out that a government can be formed with a clear majority behind it in the Storting. In that way, I would say that this equation is interesting. It improves the situation and climate on the non-socialist side. The agreement has also received a clear social profile. Several points in the agreement I would at least believe that the Party of Christian People's Party should be pleased with, and that has probably also emerged in the public debate afterwards. Therefore, it should be possible to look forward to a better situation. Often it has been that the relationship between the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party has been a topic. We have noted with interest that it has become a new party leadership in the Christian People's Party. We have also analysed the situation a little bit, and see that in important areas of the Christian People's Party, such as. Family policy, the Progress Party is a close ally. This concerns cash support and the freedom of choice for young children’s parents. We agree to strengthen the boarding schools, and in the budget agreement we got a strengthening of the capital grant to the boarding schools. We stand together to maintain the desire for a Christian purpose paragraph – which we have had, and should have – in kindergartens and in school. We had a common view on the issue of partnership law a few years ago. We're probably almost competing for the Middle East policy and the relationship with Israel. In the agreement, we succeeded in getting a loan arrangement for church buildings, which was not to be against the views of the Christian People's Party. In many other debates, we have said that we are based on the basic Christian values. We were able to strengthen the local economy, the social profile and the health profile in the budget. I think the distance has gotten a little bit smaller. Therefore it will be interesting to follow the development of the Christian People's Party and the relationship with the Advance Party in the future. There have been many positive views also in the right, so I think this is going in the right direction. I'm talking about the relationship after the 2005 elections, of course, that's what's going to be interesting. I don't think there are any changes in conditions until after the election, and I think that's interesting. I have noticed that in one of today's newspapers, the Prime Minister of the current government says that he is negative to another relationship with the Progress Party. I want to say: I find that of less interest, because it is the party leadership in the Christian People's Party that will count in terms of what will happen after the 2005 elections. So what the sitting government had to have of views in this area, I find relatively uninteresting. It's not those who sit there now, at least not everyone, who wants to have some influence on this. We in the Progress Party hope that the many forces now in progress from below, both in the Christian People's Party and the Right, can help us to have a different climate and a different relationship, so that, on the non-social side, beyond the spring as a goal for the 2005 election campaign, one can try to appear as a realistic alternative in terms of a government formation with a clear majority behind it in the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25.ana.ud2414e1413	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25.ana.ud2414e1416	I want to go more directly into the budget settlement itself. The progress party is very often concerned with health and the hospital economy. The representative, Mr Hagen himself, is very often concerned about trying to get rid of the debt of health businesses in this Chamber, and that this will be an overall arrangement for the hospital economy, which, in the opinion of the Progress Party, is good. Elimination of the liabilities of health enterprises should lead to a significant improvement in the operational situation of hospitals next year. All right. Is debt relief actually a significant improvement in the functioning of hospitals? I doubt it very much. But as the representative Hagen claims it all the time, he must have made sure to calculate what it means. My question to Hagen is therefore: if you can get rid of the debt now in the harvest, what will that mean for the operation of the hospitals?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25.ana.ud2414e1425	It's quite right, as the representative Bjarne Håkon Hanssen says, that we're busy eradicating the debt, and we've also tried to expose it to the year when there should be a balance in terms of regional health companies. We have not succeeded in getting support from either the Workers' Party or other parties to achieve this. We have in the agreement received a reinforcement of the ISF, from 40 pst. to 60 pst. This means that there will be a growth in the treatment of patients by hospitals because it will be economically profitable to treat more patients. This is an estimate, which means that there will automatically be more money for the health service than for the previous calculations from the department when it comes to what would be included in the estimate for the ISF. There will be an additional grant to a significant extent. Some have suggested that the result of the ISF change will be about NOK 1 billion more. In addition, in the 2004 budget, we will remove a substantial part of the hospital debt. Then Bjarne Håkon Hanssen has an opportunity to show that he believes something with all the fine words he has when he talks about the hospitals, both here in Stortinget and outside. If the Labour Party is in favour of our proposal, we can do something. It will reduce what has to be made of the surplus to cover debt in the next few years, and it will get the ministry to calculate – we don't.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25.ana.ud2414e1435	Carl I. Hagen's posts are probably a preliminary highlight of today's round of kissing, clapping and hugging between the bourgeois parties. The agreement we have on the table today represents a strange political saltomortal from the Progress Party. Thus, priority has been given to strengthening the local economy with a total of DKK 3 billion, while at the same time last year it was proposed to cut DKK 1.8 billion in transfers to the municipalities, despite the fact that the economic situation in the municipalities was equally dramatic at that time. It makes the Progress Party stand out as a war party without principles, which only governs its policy according to the logic of the Gallup. It's natural to ask Carl I. Hagen whether this salt ortale is due to new insight and sudden clarity in the financial situation of the municipalities, or whether the reconciliation is merely a free movement of the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25.ana.ud2414e1442	There has been a clear, solid line in the policy of the Progress Party in the area of the local economy. Last year we had a completely different situation in the country's economy, a completely different inflation, price rise, than what we now have. We also faced a pay settlement. The whole of the alternative budget of the Progress Party last year would be a strengthening of the municipalities. They would save money because the effects in other areas of our policy would lead to a lower price increase, and they would have lower costs of making pay. That's why we could also simplify the transfers. The whole would be a strengthening of the municipal economy. Now, with a much lower price increase and assumed lower costs of wage settlement, there is a new situation. We already announced what we wanted to do in the setting of the municipal bill and agreed with the government parties in the spring party. That is what we have done with the 2005 budget. So until the principle view we have taken, that we want tax failure or tax increase, more than what is in the budgets, to be compensated. That is what we have done in the 2004 budget in relation to the revised national budget in June. The evening post doesn't quite understand that we're comparing what was in the revised national budget, and trying to compare it with last year's, but that's the misunderstanding of the evening post and Bjørlo Lysbakken.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25.ana.ud2414e1451	We have a good budgetary agreement with the Progress Party. I agree with Carl I. Hagen that we have had constructive, tidy negotiations. The progress party has taken responsibility, and that's good. However, some are now trying to make slippery transitions between engaging in constructive negotiations on a government budget and on to more committed cooperation, with perspectives that also point beyond the 2005 enlargement elections. It does not see the Christian People's Party as relevant. It's not just the Prime Minister who thinks, it's also clearly stated by the party leader, at the latest on the radio this morning. It is good to cooperate on individual matters, but there is still a great political distance between the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party in important political issues, in biotechnology, in the protection of unborn life, in district policy, in environmental policy and in drug problems, in aid – just to mention some important value issues for the Christian People's Party. It is good that the Progress Party was willing to ignore its primary positions during the negotiations, but that does not mean that the Progress Party has changed its policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25.ana.ud2414e1462	I think it's a little disappointing that Einar Steensnæs in a debate like this one again wants to talk about everything we disagree about. I can confirm that there is a great distance between the Christian People's Party and the Advance Party in a number of political areas, just as there are between the three red-green parties, who have a willingness to try to negotiate some form of consensus. There is considerable disagreement between the Christian People's Party and the Right regarding their primary positions, for example: in the policy on alcohol, in the case of gas, in the fiscal policy and in the tax profile. There are distances between different political parties. But the Christian People's Party, the Left and the Right managed to demonstrate when they sat together on Shem, was that they finally managed to carve together a platform that all three could take responsibility for. It wasn't the primary programs of any of the three. That's the same thing we're asking for now. When those who are on the red-green side, or the socialist side, seem to appear to be a stable, predictable, long-term government option, it's just stupid and unwise if the non-socialist parties don't start thinking a little bit about what you're risking if we just keep talking about what we're disagreeing about, instead of talking about what we're agreeing about.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25.ana.ud2414e1471	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25.ana.ud2414e1474	According to calculations by the Statistical Central Bureau, the government could have halved its tax base of about $20 billion in the period of unemployment if the funds had been channelled to the public sector. It would have created 47,000 more jobs. Furthermore, the Statistical Central Agency concludes that tax relief in today’s situation is barely effective in terms of employment. The government's draft budget is weak with regard to active industrial policy. That's the answer. The government provokes the social partners by breaking the IA agreement and an obligation on employers to pay 10 pst. the costs of long-term sick leave. There is no bad guess, I think, to assume that this government sits after the next option, it is the employees who get the next attack. Once again, there have been some restrictions on the rules of leave. «Long term» is not the first word I come up with when it relates to this tool for business. There is also a cut in the number of action sites. Fortunately, the advance party got the rowing rules in port, and that's good, but unfortunately only for the first six months. In the revised national budget, we once again have the same uncertainty for the industries that depend entirely on having a good regulatory framework. SV proposes the continuation of today’s legislation for the whole of 2005. The breach of the IA Agreement is also attached to the budget agreement, even if one has moved the time of introduction by a few months. I think it's embarrassing that the proposal stands by, all the time the government itself admits that now the IA agreement works, and she herself has provided figures to the Stortinget where she has cut down the expenses of sickness and other expenses in the population's debt by NOK 2.5 billion – after the government budget was presented. Here it is only clear that the draft budget, even with the agreement, will essentially mean a continuation of today's policy, a policy that will provide us with a solution of some 100,000 unemployed several years in advance. It is not acceptable. Several effective measures to combat unemployment are necessary. SV provides an alternative budget with anti-unemployment measures that will provide around 17 000 more jobs fairly equally across different business activities and the development of public services. An important step towards modernising business is the faster depreciation of machinery and equipment. SV increases the depreciation rate by 5 pst., which will make it more profitable for industry and business to invest in new and more modern equipment. To strengthen the research activity, we give a proper boost to basic research and apply research with a total of DKK 1.3 billion. Our priority in the industrial and industrial context is to be primarily of knowledge and competence. But if you want to keep going, you're going to have to have a proper lift, and you're going to have to keep going. An area that gets too little attention in business is bioenergy. SV will have the bioenergy part of total energy production at Swedish level by 2010. This is achieved by establishing a plan for the industrialisation of bioenergy. Such a plan could create 4,000 jobs in the processing, production and use of bioenergy. Innovation Norway is perhaps the organisation that gets the most praise from the companies when I'm on company visits, and I'm quite often. Innovation Norway is our most important travel hub for innovation and modernisation throughout the country. For this reason, it is important that they have enough means to do their job – both the grant part, the loan part and the research and development contracts need to be strengthened significantly more than the Government proposes. In our alternative scheme, SV adds a total of 650 million. in the different schemes. Another thing that companies put forward as important for their competitiveness and their ability to deliver products is broadband. The government's ambition level for broadband expansion is too low. Broadband is important for driving industrial development in the districts, and it is particularly important for our overall ability to adapt. In August I visited a company in a small municipality in Sogn and Fjordane. The company operates with the equipment of boats, everything from the latest before electronics to furniture and machinery – design and high technology are of the very last and most modern kind. Messa in the fishing boat that I saw actually looked more like the last new one in conference rooms than a fair on a fishing boat. But the product that this company delivers depends on large data files that go between the customer and the company several times in order to compete on the proposal, so it requires broadband. This company today pays NOK 120,000 a year for a poor broadband supply – a totally absolute trigger. The cheapest offer they could have had in Bergen, which is the closest area for us in the West, was 500 kroner a month – 6000 kroner per month. years. It is clear that then it is not particularly competitive to be able to offer the enterprise to establish itself in the districts. The company is tired of being what she is today. If we can't do anything about the expansion of broadband, especially in districts that don't have commercial interests, and that are interested in expanding broadband, it disappears from the districts. Now I see that the Environment Minister is going, but he should have listened to what I have to say now. Norwegian fjords were easily reached to the world's best destinations by National Geographic Travel. This gives us great opportunities to establish not only Norwegian fjords, but the whole country as the best tourist destination in the world. We can, if we want, develop Norway into a large and viable green tourist industry. In such a strategy, we use our beautiful waterfalls, the unique coastal landscape, natural forests, glaciers and our national parks. Tourism is one of the fastest growing industries in the world, and here we have absolutely a lot to offer. Then we have to focus on activity, and we have to dare to use activity even connected to the protection area, but then it says we're doing it in the right way. At that time, national parks and national parks must be used as coordinators to work with business, with the protection and with the protection interests to see what can be done. There are many organizations and many people in this country who have good and right ideas, where one can also take advantage of either the protection area or the existing magnificences for commercial activities. Then the protection of a completely different local anchoring than today in the areas of conflict. But we don't talk about motorized travel, in no way, we talk about so-called slow tourism, where one uses nature on nature's premises. We have a lot of it in Sogn and fjords, and people should go there to see, and not least the government should spend more money both on the National Park Centre and on the development of business in this area. SV has good suggestions that one can support. We've added a total of 45 million. kr in order to establish a green tourism activity as a bet area. So to something that's not so fun to talk about, easy race. Most people probably saw the terrible pictures from the North West last week, when the cars ran around people's cars. They locked up both on the road and in branches while the race went. A life was lost when a car was drawn by race and led into the sea of Loan Fjord. We who live in Sogn and Fjordane are well used to race and the danger of race. The list of actions is a lot to get more money for racial protection. Unfortunately, it is rarely that this gets such a note from the national media that we got in the last week, and, unfortunately for the work on racial protection, it doesn't get the priority and the attention it receives from the Government either. It's only when things get really crazy that things happen, but the danger of race is that there's even the whole cottage and winter, and even the rest of the year, when only the rainfall is large enough. As late as last night, 14 roads were connected by race or because of the risk of race in the North West. Not only is this a psychological impression for people who live there, who are to travel on the roads and send their kids to school, but it is also a direct cost to the business community, which several days experience that the road is blocked, so that one cannot deliver their goods or not get them as a need for production. And a lot remains before the road network is secure. This government is well below the objective of the National Transport Plan for Racial Protection. SV has allowed 100 million. kr more on racial protection for 2005, and every year in the last three years we have spent a lot more money on racial protection. That's absolutely necessary. Racism is not just a new tunnel and over construction or redevelopment of the road. Racial protection is also focusing on climate and climate research. Scientists estimate that days of storm, storm and heavy rainfall in the West will increase by 20, and we have plenty of days like that from before. An active climate policy is therefore at least as necessary for racial protection and for road safety as environmental policy in general. We need to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, reduce CO2 emissions and convert to alternative energy sources. SV spends 700 million. D to convert energy policy more environmentally friendly into our alternative budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25.ana.ud2414e1511	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25.ana.ud2414e1514	The representative of Grande Røys spent a lot of time calling for active measures against unemployment. The incentives the party itself has to pay in the year's budget and in its alternative state budget are a significant increase in the top tax on general income, an increase in the general tax on business and persons by DKK 4 billion, an immediate tax on dividends and an increase in the wealth tax on small enterprises, or what is known in the SV tribal language as the sealing of dirt. In addition, we want to cut oil investment by over 2 billion kroner. There are some of the active measures that can be taken out of the alternative budget. Kristin Halvorsen’s earlier statement that taxes should not be increased beyond the 2004 level was never likely to be taken seriously, even in SV. My question to Grande Røys is: why is it a good contribution to combating unemployment, which she is so busy with, to make it less profitable to work and less profitable to establish and run own businesses in this country? It is well in the companies that the jobs we will live on in the future will be created.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25.ana.ud2414e1521	The fact that Svein Fleet can claim that working with SV's budget is less profitable is simply a direct mistake. On the contrary, all employees will receive up to SEK 500000 more in tax bills with the SV budget than with the Regeningas. It is precisely the workers who are in the lowest wage group, who usually have a job offer to offer. This means that they get more to work, i.e. more in taxation, they will actually be able to increase their supply of work. It is also something that the Minister of Finance has been busy with in the perspective statement. Typically, Svein Fleet does not refer to the tax bill that SV has in its alternative budget, which goes on business. Among other things, we reduce the employer's fee by 2 billion kroner. It's very important that companies have competitive prices when they've taken on people. If you're going to get down the unemployment rate, you're going to add it to people's numbers. If we're going to be competitive with our wages, it's a very smart move to reduce the employer's fee. So in addition, I'm going to spend $1.3 billion on reducing the depreciation rate for business.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25.ana.ud2414e1528	The representative of Grande Røys used parts of his post to talk about racial protection in the West, but at the same time it states that SV will reduce the allocation of motorways in central struts. On the route Drammen–Holmestrand there were on average ten fatal accidents for many years. Two years ago, a four-field motorway was opened on the route. So in these two years it hasn't been a single fatal accident, while in the rest of the county accidents continue as before. This route voted against, and they will not grant money to a corresponding accident-free route through the rest of the county. One thing is that the accident costs alone would have paid the road during a ten-year period. But isn't it a problem for SV to go against projects that so obviously save human lives?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25.ana.ud2414e1535	SV has a very clear profile in its behavioral setup. It is to go against large road investments in central struts and to spend money on public transport. It's environmentally friendly, and it'll reduce accident statistics, precisely because one gets fewer people by car on the roads and more people by rail and on the T-Bahn here in Oslo – one gets people away from the roads and over on rail. But then you have to have a rail offer that's up and going, so people get to work within reasonable commuting time. Of course, I am very sorry for every single human life that is lost on the Norwegian road, but to build motorways as the only answer to that is I directly disagree with the Progress Party in. SV wants to have public transport in central lanes, so that one gets people away from the motorways across on safe railway cars. So a rather focused on spending money on road development in the districts, where one does not have the same basis for driving public transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25.ana.ud2414e1543	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25.ana.ud2414e1546	It is gratifying to state that the main priorities of the Government are now being carried forward through the budgetary agreement. Not least from the point of view of the Christian People's Party, the increase in development aid has been retained through this budgetary agreement. As a rich country, Norway has a special responsibility to show solidarity with the world’s poor. Still, one child dies every three seconds of poverty. This is the greatest political challenge of our time, although it hardly looks like this when you observe the Norwegian political debate. This is also true of today's debate. Through our priorities, Norway can help the world’s poor to live up to their human rights. This challenge wants the Christian People's Party and the Government to take. Next year, the aid budget will be increased by DKK 1.6 billion. In total, development aid appropriations have increased by SEK 4.3 billion since the co-operation administration took over. We can never be content with the effort to combat poverty. To that, the challenge is too great. It is important that we have a targeted policy to increase assistance, and that we also have an alert look at how the money is used. Each crown must contribute to the reality of human rights for the poor of the world. Throughout this period of government, the government has shown its willingness to prioritize this in a way that ensures a reasonable and efficient use of the money. First of all, there is more money for the poorest. Food, clean water and medicines can seem unattainable to the poorest. But history now shows that the poverty orientation of aid works. The death rate for children has fallen markedly worldwide in the last decade. Vaccines save the lives of 2.5 million children each year, and nearly 1 billion more now have access to clean water. Polio is on the verge of extinction, and life expectancy in developing countries has increased by 20 years in the last 40 years. This is the greatest leap forward in human history. We must therefore continue to give priority to the poor. Secondly, more money goes to education. More money also goes to social services. Education is job no. 1 of the Government's development policy. Education is a pillar in the fight against poverty. No investment is more effective than just spending on schooling. And the bet benefits. For example, in Uganda last year, there were twice as many children who could read and write, as in 1999. But there are still some 115 million children lacking basic education, and most of these are girls. That's why I'm glad that the government is going to increase education aid by about 350 million next year. kr. Overall support for education has doubled since 2002, and in this context, training for girls is particularly a priority. More money also goes to the fight against HIV/AIDS. This epidemic is a disaster for many developing countries. Norway makes important contributions to the UN AIDS programme. We also want to contribute to prevention and treatment. Not least, it is important for us to be able to strengthen the healthcare of the most vulnerable groups. Without a proper health system, people are defenseless against HIV/AIDS. That is why more will be allocated to this in the next year's budget. Also here at home, the government takes important steps to build well-being. The best prevention against social problems is to have a job to go to and know that someone needs one's skills, one's knowledge, one's workforce. This is why the government's economic policy is aimed at making jobs safer through a sensible economic policy, through lower interest rates and a lower dollar rate. Now employment is on the way up. The same applies to optimism in Norwegian business. It is also aimed at giving free hands a job. This results in results. As a rogalending, I also allow myself in this context to mention an important aspect of the initiative, namely that all our universities now have to manage such capital through the Seed Funds. There is reason to congratulate the University of Stavanger on the fact that our new university is now also involved in managing such a seed fund.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25.ana.ud2414e1565	Fortunately, it is better in the Norwegian economy. Economic optimism is increasing. But despite this, it looks like the unemployment rate has stuck to a high level. Nearly 100,000 free people require active action. Everyone's work is a main field of action for the Labour Party in our budget for next year. For the Labour Party, full employment will always be the main objective of economic policy. We say no to tax relief for those who need it at least. We also say no to the social tax addendum, for which the government party and the Progress Party are in favour. We would rather have a stronger effort to secure and create new jobs. We will also increase our efforts for the free ones. The working party will refill the toolbox. Active enterprise policies and targeted actions will give us more hands to work. Our commitment to a better local economy will also provide more jobs. On Monday we were informed that 350 Norwegian seafarers were fired. The government party has got what they want. Fjord Line must be flagged as a follow-up to the Government's policy. The Color Line evaluates to follow. By removing the net pay regime for Norwegian seafarers, there is a sign from that ability to compete with seafarers from the countries around us. If we want to maintain Norwegian maritime competence, and if we want Norwegian seafarers, we need to have about the same framework conditions as our neighbouring countries. The Government Party has been able to make the framework worse, so that our seafarers will be 40 p.m. more expensive overnight. To believe that one should be able to compete under such different conditions would be to believe that Norwegian skiers would be able to assert themselves internationally even if they were forced to go on old wooden skis and with Rottefalla bindings. The EU pursues an active policy in this area and imposes good conditions on its shipowners and seafarers. The Labour Party will take care of and further develop the maritime sector. We would therefore also like to pass on the arrangements we have in this area, and we would like to extend them to other vessels that are in direct competition. We will therefore extend the net pay regime to all Norwegian seafarers on board competing ships in the NOR fleet. In this way, in the Workers' Party, we follow up our promises to this industry. I find that the government party is doing the opposite. The working party will increase the promise of Innovation Norway to secure innovation, growth and employment. There is a lack of enough risk capital in Norwegian business. In order to create growth and new jobs, the state must be involved, especially in the start-up phase. Through the public tools, founders and others with good ideas can make these look like life. Studies show that such a commitment brings both business and socio-economic benefits in terms of new jobs across the country. We have therefore proposed increasing the number of loopholes in this area. In connection with the last year’s budgetary agreement, the Workers’ Party was able to implement the so-called NOx programme. By supporting the transition to new technologies in old boat engines, a significant reduction in emissions can be achieved, while guaranteeing employment. The government is not suggesting to pass on this program, although we have committed ourselves to a severe reduction in our NOx emissions. For the Workers' Party, it is important that this programme be continued, and so we have also made money for this purpose for the next year. Once again, the Government proposed to worsen the permeability scheme. There is an effective way to increase unemployment in Norway. In many industries there are fluctuations in the activity of the mission amount. Therefore, it may sometimes be necessary to permit the addition for a shorter or longer period. If the permation system gets too bad, people will be terminated instead. I've visited several companies that have a lot of problems with the permit laws, and the message from them is that now a person will have fewer added and more hired people if they get an activity boost. The Government proposal will reinforce this trend. I feel pretty sure that it is also a willful policy, namely that more should be transferred to temporary contracts and conditions. The government is proposing changes to the sick pay scheme. The fact that this is a clear breach of an agreed agreement is one side, but in addition it imposes considerable extra costs on the business community. I'm glad there's not going to be a number for this today, but I realize there's going to be a new debate already in June, so unfortunately one can't say it's in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25.ana.ud2414e1592	I sometimes meet voters who find it difficult to understand what we are discussing, and I understand that, after hearing the previous article. We're still spending $1 billion in the budget subsidising Norwegian seafarers. This cannot mean that we have abolished the net pay scheme, but we have made some changes to it for one group, namely for the restaurant staff on the ferries. The long-term challenge in Norway is to secure Norway in a globalised economy. Every budget has to be measured according to whether we go one step closer to this goal, or whether we go away from it. Political direction is not created by the big grips. It's actually the sum of all the small steps we're doing, in a budget or in individual decisions in the Grand Duchy, which provides a direction that ensures both jobs and well-being in a stronger international and global context. It is important to emphasise this, because this debate is ongoing in all countries except Norway. It is this debate that makes countries by country make profound reforms because they face a difficult international competitive situation. We have not notified ourselves of the competitive situation in Norway either. It's just that it's basically just business in the districts that first and foremost notices the consequences. That's why I'm glad we've been through a budget that's many small steps towards making the Norwegian economy healthier in a globalised world. It is a budget on quality in education. In the course of four years, this government has ensured the right-wing fight throughout the 1990s, namely several lessons for Norwegian schoolchildren. So it's going to be twelve more hours from the next harvest with this budget. It means a empowerment for the teachers, and the knowledge promise to Kristin Clement has begun. There is a further commitment to research and, not least, to research commercialisation, which is essential for the commitment we have to research to help us get more and new business. It's a moderation of public spending because we're going to have room for value creation and for the foundation of the future. It is important that schemes are also put in place to ensure that we do something with the tax and cost spiral that Norway has been in for a long time, a spiral that has made more and more people out of work and into social security. We come up with schemes that will push more people from social security to work, because we focus on it. So the budget contributes to positive developments. We spend no more money than we planned in the deal. That means that we can still hope for a lower interest rate and a competitive rate of interest. It is important for value creation and for continued positive development in industry. Industrial employment is actually increasing, and it's been a long time since it has. We have a deal that gives tax relief for all income groups. For example, fully moderate family income, two incomes of NOK 250000, will give what has been decided on now, approximately. 4 100 kroner in light with the arrangements of the Government. In order to take a teacher example that I have mentioned many times in forums other than the Stockholm Chair, a teacher will receive NOK 5 900 more in light only with this state budget – more in sum throughout the period – while the Workers' Party in its alternative budget increases the taxes for this group by NOK 4 500. These are common people. There are people in full-time work, and there are people who are trying to get their family life to jump in the middle of time, and who need to have a room for action. We also continue to work to get more people out of social security and into work through new, creative ways of using, among other things. disability benefit in respect of which wage or salary allowances are paid. If you want to take care of the opportunities for our welfare society in the future, you have to look at the whole picture and the context of Norwegian policy. Norwegian political debate appears at the moment as fragmented, in individual images and in individual cases. But that's the sum of what we're doing, which is the important thing in the future. The use by the opposition parties of the concept of 'disocially' at the time of the presentation of the draft budget was an example of such fragmentation. You take a little bit and talk about how unsocial that is, but the most unsocial will always be if we have budget contributions that make us less competitive in a globalized world, because then we've weakened our ability to ensure that welfare systems and jobs are saved in the future. That's what I think we should take more inwards into a discussion that sometimes ends up with 6 or 17 dollars more in proportion. It's actually our main welfare it's about, and it's about making sure we can be competitive in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25.ana.ud2414e1615	I ask for the word of a public misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25.ana.ud2414e1622	Olav Akselsen has asked for the word for a manifest misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25.ana.ud2414e1625	There is a clear misunderstanding when the leader in the Right has not found out that the Government has proposed to remove the net pay scheme for ferry companies. That's why they're flying out. Everything else is a false representation of reality.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25.ana.ud2414e1630	We have a net payroll scheme for seafarers to ensure the competence of seafarers, and we spend $1 billion on it in this budget. The installation of the Olav Akselsen gave the impression that we had removed the net pay scheme for seafarers in general. So we haven't done that.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25.ana.ud2414e1635	Then we are told that the misunderstanding is resolved. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25.ana.ud2414e1640	The government believes that next year's growth in free income will be NOK 1 billion. At the same time, the Minister of Municipal Affairs informs us that the growth in expenditure for municipalities will be higher than this. Such is an alarming thing! The government will not even pay for additional expenses, expenses that are not affected by the municipalities at all. Moreover, it is a fact that the deficit in the municipal sector is now record high. It's going to be very hard to manage keeping public welfare, because the funds are missing. In turn, the quality of public services will be poorer. Then the arena is open to private solutions. Swallows feed a municipality financially, lay a basis for the launching and privatisation of competition. My question is therefore: does the Council of State Solberg think that the municipalities will receive the funds they need next year to provide defenceable welfare?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25.ana.ud2414e1647	The sum of the appropriations for the municipal sector in 2004 and 2005 will be the highest growth we have ever seen in the municipal sector in a two-year period. It is well possible that it will not cover all the costs the municipalities have, but it is such a big investment that it should make a good contribution to getting through the long-term imbalances and coming out with better results. As I also said in the Questionnaire yesterday, I think it is a particular problem when you have had tax failure over several years. In fact, I am glad that we have made a break from what has been normal, namely that in the budgetary agreement presented in the Stortinget, we have also compensated for the tax failure in 2004. I have registered that the Workers' Party was previously thought to be completely unnecessary, according to the media. I think there has been a better solution than filling up much more money in 2005, because it is important for municipalities not to take abrupt conversions. So we also have to think about how our income system is going to be in the future in that area, and so we asked the Incomes Committee to look at that.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25.ana.ud2414e1655	The debate has indicated, particularly from the Socialists in the Chamber, that it was almost cut in transfers to municipalities in 2005. The latest data currently available show that the growth in free income for the local government sector from 2004 to 2005 is about. 4,8 billion kroner, or in other words, the increase per year. The population is approx. NOK 1000 from 2004 to 2005. Can the Council confirm these figures? I think that if we get a confirmation of that, all the innocuous arguments from the left-hand side of this room are falling today with claims that it is being cut in the municipal sector in 2005.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25.ana.ud2414e1660	I can confirm that there was an increase of approx. 4.8 billion kroner — a total of over 7 billion kroner — in the free revenues during 2004 and 2005. So it's not a cut. So I'm going to admit that we added $1 billion. We should if we were to cover the demographic expenditure, without requiring municipalities to meet demographic expenditure with efficiency measures. This does not mean that it is impossible for municipalities to cover the costs without cuts. The question is whether to cover it with a few more efficiency measures to obtain 400 million. NOK, which was then covered. That is not the case now either, because in 2005 the increase is DKK 1.8 billion. So that means you're going to be 400 million. kr above what is needed to maintain the same level of demographic development without any measures to improve efficiency. But then it is important to stress that there are many single examples of this being different in some municipalities, among others. because a large majority of this increase has decided to implement changes in the income system which will reduce some municipalities. But this has been a broad majority at the back.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25.ana.ud2414e1669	For SV, it is a choice that if you are old and sick, care and care should be taken, that all children should be entitled to adapted training in school, or that if you need help from child protection, you should not stand in line because the municipalities do not have money, as the reality is unfortunately too many today – too many. The next year, there will be no more people getting help from the municipality to the most necessary thing, it will be fewer. It is because there is a deficit situation in the municipal sector that has been there for a long time and with which the municipal minister should be familiar. So this is a value choice that we're going to do. For the municipal minister, it seems more important than anything else in the world that the local economy itself is balancing. That's what counts, because the money has to go to something that the municipal minister thinks is more important. Despite the fact that a report from the World Economic Forum states that Nordic countries with high tax levels and broad welfare are the most competitive, the Minister of State continues to say that it is more important to provide tax relief to the wealthiest. Can the Minister of Local Affairs say with his heart that until next year no one is going to lose his place and that all the kids who need adapted training are going to get it with her frame in the budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25.ana.ud2414e1676	That was no small challenge!
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25.ana.ud2414e1679	I am tempted to be very innocent in the answer to the last part of the question. I could, for example, said no, because I have no guarantee that no one has chosen an SV rapporteur somewhere that chooses to spend much more money, and that in the next round must cut because you did not have the income for it. I cannot guarantee what each municipal politician does, and what each local government does. I cannot guarantee that the local government does not choose to give priority to e.g.: investment tasks which were not required by law and which subsequently proved to be poor. We have some examples of it around the country, sitting and paying on old bills on something that you've prioritized. Nor is it the case, as I said in my previous answer, that although we have growth in the municipal economy as a whole, all municipalities have growth in the municipal economy. And why haven't they? Well, because we, a majority in the Grand Duchy, have intended that it should be equal to the right to get that home help service, equal to the right to get that hospitalized place through changes in the income system, initiated by the labor party government before this government joined, and we implement. It involves redistribution in the income system. Some municipalities get negative, others go more positive, but that means that more people experience living in a fairer world when it comes to public services.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25.ana.ud2414e1686	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25.ana.ud2414e1689	The Norwegian economy is going pretty well. Growth is relatively high, and private consumption is increasing. While fiscal policy is quite neutral in relation to the Norwegian economy, monetary policy has been what has led to the big outturn in terms of change and growth in the last two years. It is also a bit of the main problem, because such an expansionary monetary policy creates an economic upturn, primarily based on an increase in private consumption and private debt, but we have not yet seen that unemployment has fallen. So, in the opinion of the Center Party, we can almost talk about what we call a 'jobless growth', that is, a growth where one has not managed to meet the desire to reduce unemployment. Another feature of economic development is that the public sector does not attract labour in the same way as before. It comes partly from the tight financial framework in municipalities, which not only weakens local public welfare but also the overall level of competence in many municipalities. In addition, such developments contribute to further centralisation. Movement flows are motivated primarily by a lack of work. As local labour markets are more vulnerable, a weakening of the public sector leads to vicious circles also in the area of centralisation. Different emphasising of financial and monetary policies can have different consequences. While an expansive monetary policy seems blind and mainly increases private consumption, in the opinion of the Centre Party, it will be possible to focus fiscal policy a little more strongly than today, giving it a greater responsibility, not least to give a faster result in reducing unemployment. The Central Party therefore proposes in its alternative budget to use fiscal policy more actively than many of the other parties in this House do. We believe that the conversion is moderate and responsible, but it costs more money than most parties propose. That is why we are increasing the government budget deficit by SEK 4.4 billion more than what the government is proposing. Today, when I hear the speeches that have been in the Chamber on the proposal of the Centre Party, and the replies to our spokesman, one would believe that our proposal in itself would threaten the well-being of Norway. It comes from parties that sail no longer follows the so-called rule of action. This should perhaps lead to a broader debate on what that rule of action is today. The center party was prepared that we were going to get that kind of counterclaim against us. We have therefore asked for an assessment of our alternative state budget and its effects for the Norwegian economy, so that we will have more opinions than those from political opponents. And the statistics of the Central Bureau clearly show that our approach would have had a positive impact on employment, especially in the public sector, and that would have been a rapid improvement in public employment. It would mean in clear terms that one could have had several teachers in primary school, that one could have had several hands in the care sector around the municipalities, and that one could have had several people who had invested, not least in the transport sector. So our alternative budget, whether we spend a little bit more oil money than other parties, doesn't lead to a threat of inflation or interest, and therefore not at the price of the dollar. I think that's why it's time for us to get that debate down to a slightly more sobering level. What is it that threatens well-being? I have noticed that there are several speakers today who have been concerned about it. Not least the Minister of Finance was concerned about it. It's an important topic and an interesting topic to discuss. What is threatening the welfare of Norway today? It's actually that we still have a lot of vacant hands in this country, a lot of people who don't have a job to go to, a lot of unused resources in terms of people who don't get work. It's that we have a local well-being that confuses, no matter what we say about numbers and not numbers, that we have teachers who disappear from Norwegian elementary school, and that there are fewer teachers per. student. It's that we have foster care that is no longer to be found in the care sector that needs them so much. There is an increasing imbalance between private consumption and public consumption. The Central Party, through its alternative budget, has wanted to contribute to what we think is a policy for good local communities. That policy is three-thirds. It's about strengthening the value-creating side of our lives, i.e. business and business, and our alternative budget goes up to a stake of over SEK 4.4 billion for business and working life. It is also important to focus more on the framework conditions of civil society, which almost everyone in this country is concerned about, leisure, culture and sport. There, the Centre Party chooses a strong bet in addition to the local welfare, which many have been involved in.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25.ana.ud2414e1711	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25.ana.ud2414e1714	It's very interesting in the Center Party's budget. Where I think the center part has now settled on a new line, is in the use of the oil money. They are now spending much more oil money than they have previously invested in their budgets, and it seems that they now have a position on the use that could put certain things at risk. Does not the Central Party see that a large consumption of oil money will increase inflation and strengthen the krone price in such a way that it would endanger some jobs? The argument from the industry before was that when the crown price was so high, the most important thing was to bring it down to create more jobs and secure them in the future. Isn't the use of oil money, as the central batch now states, to use up the values of future generations now?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25.ana.ud2414e1721	There were some of these elements I tried to go into my post, but I might try to repeat some of them. We want to use fiscal policy more actively than we do today. We think it is unfortunate that monetary policy alone regulates the temperature of the Norwegian economy today. It doesn't help to reduce unemployment as much as we want. We believe that if we used fiscal policy a little more actively, in a way that is responsible, sail if we want to spend $4 billion more of the oil money, it could have created jobs for people, not least in the care sector and the school. It is precisely the areas where there is currently a shortage of labour. It's just where you can see that it's too few hands. For the first time in a long, long time, public sector employment has fallen. I'm a little surprised that it doesn't concern the Workers' Party any more that today you have a growth that is so strongly based on private consumption, but that can't get the unemployment down. There is reason to pursue policies that are more active in this area, and so can we. We've been tested for safety by the Statistical Central Bureau, which is just responding to the arguments that Nordtun made here.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25.ana.ud2414e1729	It is true, as Arnstad's representative says, that active fiscal policies could lead to more employees in the public sector. But it is not certain that it is necessarily good district policy. I've lived in a typical district municipality for a while. There are significant breeding activities. Significant activities are carried out in shipyards and melting plants. These establishments export about 100 pst. That means that if you do something that affects the crown price, it will have disastrous consequences for these businesses. It also confirms the organisations representing these enterprises. Does the representative Arnstad think that these companies and these organisations are completely wrong when they warn politicians against using more oil money? Don't these companies know their own best?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25.ana.ud2414e1736	If there was anything other than right-wing claims that suggested interest rates would increase with the Central Party budget, the representative Hansen here says could be a problem. But that's exactly why we got the SSB to do our math. When they say that inflation and interest rates will be unchanged if you spend a little more money on getting more hands to work, the price will probably not be particularly affected either. I also come from the district and know how important private business is in the districts. I know how important district industries are to areas in this country. What has puzzled me about this government budget proposal is that the Right Tax Party contributes to increasing the charges for the important district industries, among others. the breeding industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25.ana.ud2414e1743	The centre party is a very good district party, and Marit Arnstad is a good district politician. In rural policy, agriculture is one of the most important things we are doing. Then it amazes me that time and again when we are going to make new grips in agriculture, it is the Center Party that is fighting against and following. Either the cows have to go outside, or the cows have to lie on mats, or you want to bet more on small-scale food, the Center Party is all the time like on the hind feet – they're kind of not in front. It surprises me time and time again. There is now a proposal from the Government to introduce a levy on the use of plant protection products. These are the means that some of us wonder can be harmful, if we can get sick of pesticides. That's why we want down their usage. But here, too, the center part is on the hind feet, and we don't want to let you try to bring down the use of pesticides. What is the reason why the Centre Party is always on its back feet and not in the front in terms of agricultural policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25.ana.ud2414e1748	The President is waiting in suspense at what foot Marit Arnstad is going to put down.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25.ana.ud2414e1751	We may be on our backs, but it could be because we only have two feet to stand on. In fact, the Centre Party and SV have quite a lot in common in agricultural policy and district policy. We have also agreed on many of the important approaches to agricultural policy. Today it is that in many issues relating to agriculture, the party I feel is probably the closest link to, because SV understands that there must be a great deal of action in Norwegian agricultural policy. One can't just be concerned with the little things, you also have to be concerned about the big things. This is true in relation to maintaining a real family farm around the country and not pursuing a policy that contributes to a centralised and larger-scale agriculture. It is not right, as the representative Ryan claims, that the Centre Party has not been involved in developing measures relating to small-scale food products, niche products and agricultural brands. We're very concerned about that. But we believe that it must exist together with the other important part of Norwegian agricultural policy, namely volume production. Then there may be some areas where we disagree, including: in the case of a plant protection charge. I am also concerned that the use of pesticides in agriculture needs to be reduced, but I am not so sure whether the charging policy is the right way to go.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25.ana.ud2414e1758	The centre party has been very concerned in recent years about criticising the Christian People's Party for our special points, and they have been busy pointing to important issues for the Christian People's Party. We are pleased, and we would like to appeal to the Center Party to maintain its central profile in its further work. But I have some questions for the Center Party in connection with their planning a red-green government option for the autumn. Is it true that the Centre Party, in addition to the EU case, is willing to give up its cash support in future government co-operation in terms of protection and gift deductions to non-governmental organisations?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25.ana.ud2414e1763	It is possible that the Christian People's Party seems to have been hard on them for the last two, three years, but that is unfortunately justified. It is a pity that the Christian People's Party has been involved in providing financial arrangements where, to the seventh and last, the Progress Party has to rectify some of the adverse effects of the Christian People's Party, among others. on the issue of a loan scheme for church buildings and also issues related to district and municipal policy. It's a shame, and it's necessary for someone to tell us about it. That's the Center Party going to have to do. With regard to the Central Party in future possible cooperation, if we get a mandate from the voters, the Centre Party will have to fight hard in government negotiations for what we stand for. What we're saying is, it's still going to be a cash payment, but that cash support is going to be for those who actually spend more time with their children, i.e. those who are at home with their children. It's a position the Center Party is in for now, and that's a position we're going to fight for, no matter who we're working with.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25.ana.ud2414e1770	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25.ana.ud2414e1773	This will be my last contribution to a financial debate in the United Kingdom, and it is with great satisfaction that I note that the current budgetary position has a social profile that is well on the way in line with the policies of the Progress Party, a policy for the people most, and with significant strengthening of the well-being of Norway. Through serious negotiations with the government parties, the Progress Party has succeeded in putting its social stamp on this budget, and the Progress Party has been shown through the negotiations the respect the party deserves as a major political party in Norway. I also hope and believe that the budgetary agreement has laid the foundations for closer cooperation between the bourgeois parties towards forthcoming enlargements, which can prevent a socialist majority in the elections in 2005, with the consequence it will have for the further development of society in Norway. Of course, I am personally very pleased that the health and social sector has become one of the budget winners. With an increase of the ISF scheme from 40 to 60 pst. and a basic allocation of 500 million. In 2005, our hospitals will have the opportunity to exploit their capacity and increase patient care compared to 2004 by approx. 5 pst. This means that the waiting lists can be further cut, and so can the waiting time. The Progress Party has halved the deficit to Health West and Health Mid-Norway of the basic allocation to the enterprises with an additional allocation to these two enterprises of DKK 100 million to Health West and SEK 50 million respectively. kr to Health Mid-Norway. The hospital's accumulated debt of SEK 4.5 billion is worrying. In the 2004 balancing proposal, the Progress Party will propose this debt reduced by DKK 2 billion, which can make the hospital economy manageable in the coming years and balance the hospital budgets. The government's original proposal to increase the equity by NOK 1.2 billion has been reduced by SEK 862 million. kr, and the increase in self-interest of only NOK 35 is the lowest increase ever in history. It was also successful for the Progress Party in the negotiations to remove the proposed 100 p.m. increase in proportion to the free choice of hospitals, so that patients can continue to choose the hospital they want to be treated with under the Patient Rights Act, without this being tied up to the personal economy. The tax base is increased and the food tax is reduced. Structural proposals have given the Progress Party a majority to ask the Government to draw up a national action plan for the prevention and treatment of diabetes, a population disease that is increasingly rife. We have also received a joint remark with the government parties that the Government will consider approving the Rehabilitation Institute of the Federation of Rev Mathematicians in Spain, Reuma-Sol, as a training institution. Of course, this time too, when you negotiate, you can't get all your wishes fulfilled, but in total, I and the Progress Party believe that the current budgetary position will make life easier for the weak in this country too.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25.ana.ud2414e1790	The most important task now is to get out of work and to include more people in the labour market, to improve the provision of training and to provide security for the elderly and the sick by providing a good health service. There are still too many unemployed. Therefore, it is necessary to pursue an active labour market policy in order to get the unemployed back to work, while at the same time pursuing a targeted policy in order to create new and forward-looking jobs. For this reason, the Labour Party proposes to bet at the base of DKK 4 billion on labour market and industrial policy. Of the unemployed, the number of longterm unemployed has increased in the last year. Vocational activity has declined since the last fall and employment has not been lower since 1996. Unemployment is increasing among women, and there are especially women with higher levels of unemployment that are affected by low demand for labour in the public sector. This is, of course, related to the demand for labour in the health and care sectors, and there are almost 100,000 workers working part-time but who want to work more. Almost 80 pst. of these workers, women. These developments are, of course, related to the tight local economy that has been under way for several years. It's bad socio-economics to let people be home instead of using their skills and qualifications in a work that is most needed. To include more people in the labour market is a political objective that has been widely debated. The IA agreement signed by the Government and the Contracting Parties last December provided that the sick pay scheme should not be changed during the contract period. Now all the numbers show that sick leave goes down, because you've been working systematically according to the intentions of the IA agreement, and that's a pleasure. So in that situation, one of the parties, the government, is breaking the deal. Breaking up a contract is not wise in itself, and when an agreement works according to the intentions, it is directly foolish for one of the parties to cancel it. It is no wonder that the NHO and LO ask themselves if the Government will actually have the sick leave down, and whether it is to be trusted in agreements that are concluded. The Labour Party believes it is important that there is a trusting relationship between the regime and the social partners. The Workers' Party shall be party to the Agreement. The Labour Party is completely disunited in the Government's unsocial tax policy and the increase in VAT to which the Government and the Advance Party submits. It is quite wrong to increase VAT on goods and services to give tax relief to people with high incomes and large wealth. The Labour Party will have a tax policy with a fairer distribution. I am totally incomprehensible that the Christian People's Party, which has always said that they are close to the Workers' Party in the distribution policy, will give tax relief to those who tend to e.g. 1.2 million. kr. They're going to get NOK 29,000 in the tax bill, and they're going to have a $3 million in the tax bill. NOK, a get tax bill of NOK 100000. This is far from the Workers' Party's distribution policy in the case of taxes. We mean they're tensing over 1 million. kr, tax tightening tolerance. Treasurettes should give to those who think at least. Last year, the Christian People's Party welcomed the fact that the budget became more social through the Labour Party. This year both the Prime Minister and Sørfonn believe that the budget was more social by means of the Progress Party. Is it so that the Christian People's Party cannot get Right to create a budget with a social profile? It may seem that the most important thing is to sit in government. Then the Stortinget gets organized in the social profile, which also the Christian People's Party thinks one needs. I thought it was strange to witness what is happening on the civil side today. Hagen asks in his humble way to get into the heat, into the government. Right does not take a line on Hagen, while Right-riders ask Erna Solberg to take the Advance Party into the heat. Left's Sponheim says to the newspapers today that if it does, there will be trouble. It doesn't exactly testify that we have a clear situation on the civil side when it comes to government next fall.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25.ana.ud2414e1811	The President is somewhat in doubt about the time frame for the morning meeting, but will assume that you can include the next speaker.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25.ana.ud2414e1815	Let me just take a quick line for the latter speaker. In fact, the Christian People's Party has made the Right participate in the most social, a record-breaking effort for the world's poor, those who are the worst in this world. With the budget now presented, we confirm and consolidate Norway’s leadership position in this very area – the efforts of the poorest. Many may think that we are an exception to our strong increase in aid. That's not true. We're part of a large international community, an international community. Now 11 OECD countries have plans to step up assistance. If I am not wrong, seven of them have plans to reach 0.7 pst., with deadlines, and three countries, including Norway, have plans to reach 1 pst. Ireland recently presented its State budget, where it is well on the way to fulfilling its phasing-out plan for a quadruple of assistance from 1997 to 2007. This is in line with the Government's proposal for a record increase in assistance for next year, although we have a piece left before we reach our goal of 1 pst. It is critical to achieve the UN's Millennium Goals. With this we will also be better equipped in the fight against poverty and to follow up not only the Millennium Goals, but also the Johannesburg Summit and its commitments. We know that the objectives cannot be achieved with assistance alone. We also clearly say that in the development message that Stortinget is now dealing with. If we're to succeed, we have to work along four fronts. We need a global reform agenda. This concerns international framework conditions and reforms in trade, debt and investment. It is about coherence in policy. These are reforms in developing countries, better governance and governance, keeping order in your own house and fighting against corruption. It is also about reforms in the area of assistance. As we increase it, we shift and reform – with better assistance as a result, which reaches the poorest, and reaches the longest. Last but not least, there are reforms in mobilising the private sector and non-governmental organisations. Here, too, new grips are being taken. So we in the government are not just concerned with percentages. We are concerned with reforms and, first of all, with results for the poorest. One of the main challenges here is to ensure that the reforms are implemented in an international context, that everyone is on the team, and that we on the Norwegian side make sure that what we give with one hand is not taken away with the other. Policy coherence is critical, and here all countries have a way to go, including Norway. In October we presented to the UN a report on the follow-up to Millennium Goal No. Eight. What's it all about? It makes Norway’s contribution to the achievement of the UN’s Millennium Goals visible. What's our part of the effort? It says something about what we're doing to achieve the goals, among other things. by creating a better relationship in our policies. This means that as other rich countries, we need to look through and analyse our policies in areas such as trade, debt laundering, migration, environmental policy, knowledge and technology transfer — yes, even corruption and money laundering. Climate policy is one such important area. All of these areas are mentioned in our Millennium Goal No. 8 report, which also shows that we have some way to go. Climate policy can be crucial for the economy and development of many developing countries. In fact, most estimates suggest that Africa will be the worst affected by climate change. Therefore, what we do in environmental policy at home and in development policy must be linked. The latest climate change report shows that climate change is here and that it is more dramatic than has so far been believed. We see the scale of this in the Arctic, but we need to be aware that those who want to be hit are far away. They're in the world's poorest country. That's why it's necessary to make sure that we not only think about assistance, and that we not only think about percentages, but that we also deliver in other policy areas. In other words, we need a comprehensive development policy that focuses on creating justice and creating the right and equal framework conditions for the different countries. It is primarily the countries themselves that can take care of their own development, but they must not experience that they are being kicked under these efforts, they must experience that it is being built up during these efforts. In these days, the Stortinget has the chance to contribute to Norway’s delivery, and to give us a comprehensive development policy that is anchored in the Stortinget and in the majority of the Stortinge. And I hope that the processing of the message will show that there is a complete uproar in the Storting about this. It's up to us to show that we deliver on our share of responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25.ana.ud2414e1832	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25.ana.ud2414e1835	The Minister of Development pointed out that we have a big message of development policy that is for the management of the Stortinget and that we are coming back to its contents. But as the Minister for Development said, it is up to us to show what we can deliver. It's this "us" that might be a little bit interesting. In the light of the debate earlier today, is «us» a Christian People's Party, or is it Norway? As the Minister for Development said, one has been given the Right on one of the most social budgets. And the rest of us, who stand outside, naturally ask, how difficult was it to get Right into this budget? In view of the idyll that is now here between the Progress Party and the Government, I would like to have an assessment of the prospects for the corresponding social budget in the future, when it is the Progress Party that will be involved and set the budget premises.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25.ana.ud2414e1842	As I think many of the representatives dare to be familiar with, I am a government council that wants everyone on the team, absolutely everyone. This means that ‘us’, that is Norway and the Norwegian Storing. And it's you who agree to preface what we're going to say on the Government's behalf in the international forums. What I think the representative of Blankenborg is well-known is that there are no internal budgetary debates in any government – I don't think that would happen in the Workers' Party either. I can only assure the representative of Blankenborg that there has been full agreement on the Sem Declaration, and on the importance of following it up. That is the basis for the budgetary negotiations in the Government. That is also the basis for the budget we have now submitted. Then I believe that the Prime Minister and the party leader of the Christian People's Party have clearly expressed the attitude of the Christian People's Party towards cooperation with the Progress Party. We are pleased that the Progress Party is involved in the record increase that is now being proposed, but we reserve the right to consider government cooperation in another way.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25.ana.ud2414e1851	State Councillor Hilde Frafjord Johnson expressed in his speech the joy of the development budget. In Chapter 162, the Government has proposed an increase of 471.5 million. kr, with a view to peace building and development, in particular in countries such as the DRC. Human Rights Watch has recently reported the deployment of significant quantities of weapons, including heavy weapons, in the Ituri region of Congo. It is believed that President Kaliba or Vice President Bemba is behind it. Major criminal activity has also been reported in the area, including: by unpaid military personnel. When it is also noted that there is no progress in the preparation of elections in the country, does the Council of State consider it reasonable to give priority to a country that does not comply with democratic rules?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25.ana.ud2414e1858	Let me immediately say that the real increase in transitional assistance is actually slightly larger than the representative from Stensaker, because we are financing more of Afghanistan through regular regional appropriations, so that peace building efforts are significantly greater in the budget. And here the Congo is an important recipient, if not the largest. The main reasons why Congo is not a co-operative country are the reasons why Stensaker is involved. The country is in a state of crisis, in a transitional situation, and there is no basis for establishing long-term cooperation with the country as it is now. At the same time, we need to establish and stabilise a fragile peace, and we need to make sure that choices are made and that they do not have a debt burden that is unmanageable. Therefore, Norway has contributed in these different areas. It is in East Congo that the situation is most critical, and therefore we also need the fullness of the policy, so that the work of the Foreign Minister in the area of arms and control in relation to it must be linked to what we do on the aid side. And it's only by building up under fragile peace that we avoid new war in one of Africa's most important countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25.ana.ud2414e1865	The Secretary of Development insisted that giving one hand and taking the other hand is not a special trick. In the Palestinian territories, it's actually even worse. There will be what we give, bomb – the LO building, the Statistical Central Bureau, etc. It is said that in the path that goes to the Middle East region, one should concentrate on supporting the development of self-governing powers in order to lead to the continuation of a Palestinian state and to mitigate the economic crisis that is there. When we see that the Israeli occupation, with 700 control posts, with long periods of time away from Gaza, with the construction of a wall, makes it very difficult for Palestinian authorities to carry out their tasks and place strong limits on the possibilities for economic development, I wonder: is this why aid to the Middle East is the only regional concession that is not being increased in the budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25.ana.ud2414e1872	The main reason why Palestine aid does not increase in this budget is simply that the Palestinian authorities are the largest beneficiaries of Norwegian aid. That's about 500 million. kr. It is far above what some of the other beneficiaries of Norwegian aid are receiving, and it also shows the various OECD statistics on reception, when including humanitarian and long-term aid. This is the main reason. The second reason is that the representative, Jacobsen, is that, in today's situation, it is very difficult to provide assistance in the case of the Palestinian self-government authorities. We do it, and we keep doing it, but we need to know that we're able to put it into practice. That's the main reason. So to the special challenge you have now: with the situation in the Middle East, we have a hope that, for example. the AHLC meeting, which will take place in Oslo on 7 and 8 December 2004, may provide a basis for a new effort and may facilitate its implementation. But it will be entirely up to the parties, and not least Israel, in this context. Norway is actively working to contribute to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25.ana.ud2414e1881	The cord shift is over. With this morning's meeting. The decision reopens its proceedings at 9 a.m. 18th@item: inlistbox
