ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-26.ana.ud2160e60	The representatives of Vidar Bjørnstad, Julie Christiansen, Morten Højlund, Karin Andersen, Ågot Valle, Ivar Østberg and Gunn Karin Gjul, who have been licensed, have again taken their seats. Two permit applications are available: from the Christian People's Party on sick leave for the representative of Anita Apelthun Säle from 26 October until further notice from the representative of Audun Bjørlo Lysbakken on leave from 27 October until 29 October to take part in the election observation of the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly at the Presidential elections in the United States On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The applications shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The Vara representatives of the Hordaland County, Pål Kårbø and Ragna Flotve are invited to meet during the period of leave.3. Ragna Flotve is elected to Lagtinget for the time she meets for Audun Bjørlo Lysbakken.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-26.ana.ud2160e121	The President will propose the election of two presidents of the Grand Summit today – and considers it adopted The President will propose Kjell Engebretsen and Sigvald Opbebøen Hansen. – Other proposals are not available, and Kjell Engebretsen and Sigvald Oppebøen Hansen are unanimously elected as chairman of the Stortinget meeting today.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-26.ana.ud2160e131	The representative of Åslaug Haga will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-26.ana.ud2160e134	I allow myself to propose initiatives to ensure that the processes associated with WTO negotiations become more open and democratic.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-26.ana.ud2160e139	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. At the request of the Foreign Affairs Committee, the President will propose that matters be dealt with as follows: 1 to 2 is treated as a whole. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-26.ana.ud2160e164	Nordic cooperation is of the most permanent and stable in Norwegian tradition. It is based on the Helsinki Agreement, which has reached its original age of 52 years. Must be 42 years of age, cf. subsequent correction, page 219 The fact that international cooperation structures have a duration of more than half a century is rare. The risk of long-term cooperation is, of course, that it becomes a matter of course, and it could also be expected that the annual review of Nordic cooperation by the Stortinge would be more of a ritual than a substantive political debate. I consider that danger to be less than for a long time, for the one who reads the unanimous vote of the Committee in the matter will see that there is today full agreement between all parties in this Chamber that Nordic cooperation is in a process of transformation of great reach. In earlier periods, the controversy related to Nordic cooperation has tended to relate to the question of whether cooperation between the five Nordic countries would be an alternative to other and further cooperation structures in Europe or in the world. It is gratifying to note that that time is definitely over. Today, no one can imagine that Nordic cooperation should be an alternative to European cooperation. No one can imagine that Nordic cooperation should be an alternative to NATO cooperation. What happened after the Berlin Wall fell in 1989 was that the European map had to be redrawn. The consequences of this innovation are no easier to see anywhere in Europe than in our corner of Europe. Looking at the Baltic region, it has undergone a very fundamental political transformation during the year behind us, and this year's report is about. With effect from 1 May of the current year, the three Baltic countries and Poland are members of both the European Union and NATO. The only country in the Baltic Sea area next to Norway not participating in EU cooperation is Russia. At the same time, because of historical circumstances, we are drawing an incongruency in the relationship between the five Nordic countries that are quite conspicuous, precisely because of the new situation. Sweden and Finland are still known outside NATO co-operation formally. In return, they are increasingly involved in cooperation programmes in the context of NATO cooperation. At the same time, we have from Norway, and this applies to all Norwegian governments from the mid-1990s onwards, doing everything we have been able to participate as fully as possible in the development of the common foreign and security policy cooperation in the EU — to the extent that it is possible without membership. There is a high degree of agreement and unanimity in the Stortinget today, as demonstrated by the Committee's decision, to understand Nordic cooperation in the wider European context and to see what opportunities the established Nordic cooperation offers to safeguard not only the specific interests of each Nordic country, but also the shared interests of the region in the wider European cooperation. At the same time, the Committee points out that during the 1990s and the years we have spent so far in the 2000s, a growing number of new parliamentary cooperation organisations have emerged in our own region. When Grand President Kosmo opened the 13th Baltic Parliamentary Conference in Bergen in August this year, he launched a thought that has been the subject of a great deal of debate both in the Nordic Council and in other contexts – a thought to try to continue the complex network of cooperation structures that have emerged, exploiting it in a more targeted way by trying to coordinate it in the direction of parliamentary cooperation for Northern Europe. And behind it is a finding by Cosmos that the dynamics of EU cooperation are so strong today and help to change the whole pattern of cooperation in Europe in such a rapid and far-reaching way that it is important to ensure that there is no imbalance. There is, as is well known, a regional cooperation network in the Mediterranean area in order to safeguard the common interests of the southern Member States, and very much speaks for the fact that it would be natural to imagine a similar joint regional cooperation structure in the northern part of Europe. The Committee points out that this is an interesting issue, which deserves careful consideration, and therefore asks the Government, the next time the Nordic Cooperation Communication is presented, to go into a more thorough assessment of the arguments that can be raised for and against the idea of such a joint North European parliamentary body. I will be very careful to point out one problem that is quite obvious to the person who has participated in the parliamentary Baltic Sea cooperation, which has thus existed for 13 years. That cooperation is partly based on the national states, including: the five Nordic countries, and it is partly based on established cooperation structures between the nation states, i.e. the Nordic Council in our case and the Baltic Assembly for the three Baltic countries. At the same time, it is based on, for Germany, the two North German Länder of Schleswig-Holstein and Mecklenburg-Vorpommern, i.e. not Germany at national level. And similarly, Russian participation is initially a regional participation for North-West Russia. This has been so far natural, and it has worked so far. But it is quite clear that if we are to think of a more ambitious joint North European parliamentary cooperation body, we need to address the issue of the geographical demarcation of Northern Europe. Where do the limits of the concept of Northern Europe go? The following question will immediately be addressed: Should we try to expand this so that not only a country which Poland participates at national level, as they have always done in the Baltic Sea cooperation, but that it is equally natural that Germany also participates at national level? And an even more interesting question: how far to the west does the notion of Northern Europe go? Does it include our friends in the north of the British Isles, Scotland, or does it cover the whole of England? So there are a whole series of very interesting questions that need to be considered if we want to participate actively in strengthening cooperation in northern Europe. One of the most important vital elements of Nordic cooperation in the 1990s was the relationship with the Baltic countries. It is not wrong to say that it gave Nordic cooperation a completely new and politically much more important dimension than it had for some decades, because we were faced with a common challenge in our own neighbourhood where it was quite obvious that the Nordic countries not only had a common political and moral commitment to help the three Baltic countries get on their legs both politically and economically, but it was also obvious that the established Nordic cooperation structure was the most appropriate instrument to use to achieve this. It is gratifying to note that today we have come so far that further cooperation with the three Baltic countries can take place on completely equal terms. It was symbolically expressed when the Nordic Council of Ministers opened up the possibility for the Baltic countries to become participants in the Nordic Investment Bank on the same footing as the five Nordic countries. It is a matter of limited scope, but it is of symbolic importance, and it is confirmed that the Council of Ministers has now taken a step forward by entrusting the Secretary-General with the task of exploring the possibilities for extending the same model to other areas where we have Nordic joint institutions and assessing which of these Nordic joint institutions can be opened in the same way, so that the three Baltic countries can participate equally with us. At the same time, it is important to stress that the fact that we have achieved a long way on the road in achieving the objectives behind our common Nordic effort vis-à-vis the Baltic does not mean that there is any basis for resting on the small bayberry of the Nordic countries here harvested. The challenges lie ahead in targeting efforts against Russia, the north-west region of Russia, which is our neighbourhood. It is of immeasurable political importance that we can contribute to the economic and political development of Russia that enables Russia to become a contributor to stability in our part of Europe, and not a contributor to the opposite. There is reason to point out, as the Committee has done, that this may be particularly true of the countries that were formerly part of the Soviet Empire, or the Soviet Union, as it is called, namely Belarus, which is currently the only truly totalitarian dictatorship of the classic type that is back in Europe – and that is Ukraine. This is a country that is today the eastern neighbourhood of the EU. It is essential for us in the Nordic region to be able to contribute to the EU's own objectives, namely to avoid experiencing a situation in Europe in the years to come, which means that the old Iron Curtain has moved only a few miles further east, that is to say that a gap is maintained in Europe of an economic, social and political nature. All historical experience shows that the type of canyons are life-threatening to the stability of an area. Finally, let me point to a challenge that affects Norway more than any of our Nordic friends. These are the northern areas – both the environmental problems we face in the northern seas, the resource management problems we face, and, of course, the unresolved problem that we have faced in Norway for quite decades, namely that there is no agreement between Norway and Russia on the Barents Sea divider line. This whole complex literally affects Norway, that is, physically, much more than it affects any of the other Nordic countries. It's because of both our geographic location and our business structure. Very much indicates that, if we look a decade or maybe a little further into the future – and so far we are obliged to see when we are going to take care of our own security interests – we will experience a situation how much of the transport of oil and gas from the northern regions will pass along the Norwegian coast. It in itself involves a high level of safety risk, environmental risk. Norway has made an active contribution and will continue to contribute actively to increasing the importance and political weight of the Arctic Council as a parliamentary cooperation body. It must be seen in the eyes that political developments in northern Europe have so far shifted the point of interest towards the east more and less towards the north in the last decade. This means that more and more of the political energy has been invested in the Baltic Sea region — in a geographical sense. It is also Norway's neighbourhood. However, it is not in Norway’s interest if this occurs at the expense of paying attention to the challenges of the north. It is therefore gratifying that we have now received a Norwegian head of the Arctic Council, Hill-Marta Solberg. I would like to end by stressing that the importance of this parliamentary cooperation is further emphasised by the fact that it is the only point in this whole register that concerns Northern Europe, where the United States and Canada are also vitally important partners if we are to gain political weight in politics in the northern regions. One of the main challenges we face is to do what we can to motivate the United States and the US parliamentary system to become stronger than they have so far done, to take an interest in equal participation in this cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-26.ana.ud2160e203	With an EU of 25 countries, sub-regional cooperation is becoming more and more important to the Nordic region. With the accession of the Baltic countries to the EU, the framework conditions for the close cooperation of the Nordic Council have also changed. Russia, Iceland and Norway are now the only foreign countries in northern Europe. This requires Nordic cooperation. At the same time, many parliamentary cooperation forums in our geographical area are currently working on the same subject. In addition to the Nordic Council, we have Baltic Sea cooperation, we have an Arctic parliamentary cooperation, which ensures in particular transatlantic relations, and we have a Barentsparlamentarian network, which is maintained by parliamentarians in our northern part of the country and in the north-west part of Russia. On the one hand, these cooperation forums deal with many of the same themes and on the other they affect the same geographical areas. Nor have good practices been developed for the exchange of information between the different cooperation forums or between them and the Stortinget. In the worst cases, duplication of work can lead to political power towards governments, and also towards, among other things, governments. The EU, weakening. There are currently very many ‘channels’ seeking to influence developments in the EU. I think we have to admit that the Nordic Council has today lost some of its political power. Cooperation lacks sufficient political weight, including: as a result of very few actual demand from the Nordic Council. We must also recognise that we have been too busy to get to the national anchoring for the work done at the Nordic Council. At the same time, enlargement of the EU presents challenges for Nordic cooperation. It is also necessary to improve the coordination of the parliamentary activity that is taking place in our area today. I therefore believe that the issue of how to organise parliamentary cooperation in the Nordic region in the future should be high on the agenda. I believe that there is now a need to think more comprehensively in relation to parliamentary cooperation across Northern Europe, without changing the Nordic Council of today. Work is now under way at several levels dealing with these issues. Firstly, last year’s Baltic Sea Conference, and also this year’s final document, asked the Standing Committee to strengthen the parliamentary conferences to become the parliamentary dimension of the Baltic Sea Council. The Nordic Prime Ministers have commissioned the Secretary-General of the Nordic Council of Ministers, Per Unckel, to look at the number of Councils of Ministers, with the aim of cleaning some of them. A dialogue on the need to streamline parliamentary cooperation and the need for a better national anchoring of the work done by the Nordic Council has begun between the Nordic Council and the Nordic parliamentary presidents. And so, on behalf of the other Presidents of Parliament, Grand President Kosmo has been given the task of directing this work. The Bureau of the Nordic Council has set up a working group to look at future parliamentary cooperation in the Nordic region, and the Social Democratic Group of the Nordic Council also has a working group that looks at the same. The Nordic Council of Ministers has developed new guidelines for cooperation in the neighbourhoods. These shall be dealt with at the session in Stockholm at the beginning of November. A strengthening of political cooperation with the Baltic countries will be envisaged, while financial resources will be phased out in favour of the north-west part of Russia. As part of the overall activities of the Nordic and Nordic neighbourhoods, the Council of Ministers has also placed greater emphasis on establishing good cooperation with the other northern regional councils, namely the Arctic Council, the Barents Council and the Baltic Council. In St.meld. No 48 for 2003-2004: «Cooperation with these Councils will in future form a natural and integrated part of the activities of the Council of Ministers in the neighbourhoods.» In this context, I would just like to make a small page comment when the communication to the Stortinget states that the Ministers for Cooperation ‘have provided a little more funding’ for Arctic cooperation in recent years. To this end, the cooperation ministers will probably have to share the credit for increased appropriations for Arctic cooperation with the parliamentarians of the Council, because in the 2004 budget we went in to add 1/2 million. kr in relation to the draft proposed by the Ministers for Cooperation. For next year's budget, we're going to increase it by another 1.5 million. kr in relation to the draft proposed by the Ministers for Cooperation. I would like to say that Parliamentarians have contributed most to the increase in appropriations. So we're going to share a little bit of honor. One way to achieve better coordination of parliamentary cooperation is, while maintaining the Nordic Council as a core, to conceive of a kind of parliamentary dimension for Northern Europe, i.e. the regionalisation of parliamentary cooperation. As I said, Prime Minister Kosmo has called for this, in order to streamline and coordinate our parliamentary activities for the northern part of Europe. A parliamentary partnership for Northern Europe can take a comprehensive approach to our geographical areas and be a driving force towards our governments and the European Commission. This partnership may, for example: hold conferences each year or every two years which may be prepared by a permanent parliamentary committee. On the government side, it is the foreign ministers who then become the counterpart of parliamentarians. They are already meeting in the Baltic Sea Council, in the Barents Council and in the Arctic Council. In order to do this, we can, for example: start from the Baltic Sea Conference and the Permanent Parliamentary Committee, with some necessary adjustments. This is how we will maintain the Nordic Council as the core of Nordic parliamentary cooperation. Joint parliamentary action in a broader forum will strengthen cooperation both for the Baltic Sea region and for the Barents region, while giving a clear message to our own governments and to the rest of Europe. In the end, I am very pleased that the Foreign Affairs Committee has made a unanimous position – almost for once. That's good. In particular, I would like to stress the last comment, where the Committee says: ‘The Committee considers, in this context, that there is a need to explore the possibility of establishing a parliamentary partnership for Northern Europe, and asks the Government to come back with an assessment of this in the next year’s report on Nordic cooperation.’ I'd like to add: this should be done by the government to put a great deal of weight into and work in and already discuss with its partners in the Nordic region. It's going to be taken up during the session in Stockholm, and we're going to challenge the prime ministers on it. Then it will be very nice if Norwegian ministers too have a slightly more qualified view of what this can actually mean for Norway and for Nordic cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-26.ana.ud2160e241	The rapporteur was mainly concerned with the foreign policy of the Nordic Council. Clearly, it is a challenge for the European map to change and for things to happen. Then we in the Nordic Council must also deal with this. But there's a danger in that, and it's that we lose focus on some of the things that the five Nordic countries plus the Faroe Islands, Greenland and Åland have been working with each other, namely getting some arrangements to make it easier to operate internally in the Nordic region. This of building down frontier barriers has been a bet for many years that moves relatively slowly compared to what you could expect, especially when you see that there are relatively simple things that don't work, for example. on the television. One should look at this with pensions, and one should look at this with the possibilities of people taking jobs across borders, to get the same rights, so that one does not get into a situation where one loses what is necessary to live. So in a number of areas like this, we're going to bump into it, and it's going to happen very little. I therefore believe that we should not forget the part that goes on that in the Nordic Council context we need to focus on making it easier for people to function most internally between the Nordic countries. Then there's also been a clear focus over the last few years that we've been looking east. It's natural based on what's happened. Swäl if the case rapporteur was concerned with this with Arctic cooperation and West-Nordic, I think it is an area in which we in Norway should at least be particularly concerned. To the west, we have huge natural resources that give us both environmental and other challenges. For this reason, cooperation with regard to what is happening westward is very important for Norway. At the same time, we have two small countries – the Faeroe Islands and Greenland – which, in my opinion, also deserve considerable attention in the Nordic Council. It's very marginal societies, which have their own challenges, and that don't have to be forgotten when a person looks east at new challenges. That doesn't mean I'm saying we're not going to have a dialogue east or south. I'm just saying that we must not forget West-North. We must not forget the important job we have in the Nordic countries in building down border barriers and some other important tasks. Then we have to ask ourselves: have we organised the Nordic Council directly in relation to the challenges we have? I am of the opinion, having been a member of the Nordic Council for three years, that we have too little smooth organization. I think the way we send recommendations around can't be an inner path. There have to be other ways to do this -- a much smoother and simpler way. I think it is very important for parliamentarians to meet, but I think you have to meet in a different way than by acting almost as a parliament with a very secretary who has created a bureaucracy that, in my opinion, is not functional today. Anyone who has the answer as to how to do this will have to present it. I've been thinking a lot about it, and our group has been working a lot on how to modernise this to become a more flexible organization. In this respect, I would like to mention that we have a very broad Nordic Council. We have a budget of about NOK 1 billion, and when we look at the number of projects we're doing, we're lubricating it very, very thinly. I think maybe there's a need to clean up some of the things that we're doing, and rather bet heavier in some areas, as well as giving room for new things. For many institutions and measures, years after year have passed, and it is very difficult to liquidate some of them. Our group has proposed an increase in the appropriations for the Nordic Council. We haven't made it that far, and that means you have to look at and do things in a simpler way, take away some things, if you're going to have room for new things. In conclusion, it is next week's session in the Nordic Council of Stockholm. I also believe that the discussion that, among other things, Norway’s Prime Minister has played up to this with cooperation in Northern Europe, and will become important there. I am not negative about discussing it, but I am clear that we must not forget the internal work in the Nordic countries and that we must not forget West-Nordic countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-26.ana.ud2160e260	Cooperation through the Nordic Council is therefore more than 50 years old. There are strong links that bind the Nordic region together, and for Norway, Nordic cooperation is important. The Nordic neighbourhoods have undergone major changes and Nordic cooperation has evolved to include other democratic countries. Despite the different links between the Nordic countries and both the EU and NATO, these institutions set new frameworks for Nordic cooperation. The accession of the Baltic countries to the EU requires appropriate forms of work both with Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia, and guidelines for this cooperation will be discussed next week during the Nordic Council session in Stockholm. It is important, and it is a challenge, to strengthen and develop political cooperation between these countries and with North-West Russia, where many challenges remain in terms of both democratic construction, environmental security and international cooperation. The Nordic country's broad democratic tradition is a strength in this work. But I want to say that as the representative Ryan said in the previous article, there is a lot of mess in the Nordic region, and it's important to focus on issues that have been important from the start of the Nordic Council. This concerns the reduction of border barriers between Nordic countries. This is an area that comes back to sample meetings year after year, and which parliamentarians in the Nordic region discuss in many contexts. Tax rules, social security rules and other legislation create practical difficulties by e.g.: lives in one country and works in another. In particular, cross-border activities are difficult to operate. The experience that I, who sit on the Nordic Council, have, and as many others have, is that the work on removing frontier barriers is going terribly late. A Border Obstacle Secretariat has now been established at the Secretariat of the Council of Ministers in Copenhagen as a tool to clean up these areas. It is also important that, when dealing with new laws, a practice based as far as possible on the legislation of the other countries in this area and the possible consequences of the legislative proposals on relations with the other Nordic countries should be incorporated. The report entitled ‘Northborn rights’ underlines that information is likely to be the main single factor in border barriers. The continued reduction of border barriers is very important for the development of a common Nordic identity.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-26.ana.ud2160e273	I am currently experiencing Nordic cooperation in change. I feel that much of the focus is turned from the Baltic and across North-West Russia. I feel that the dialogue on common European challenges is central, with particular reference to the northern regions. The borderless Nordic region and the work on border barriers are also important. I believe that Nordic cooperation should have upliftment and legitimacy, we must show concrete results for our citizens. The position of the Foreign Affairs Committee puts the challenges of Nordic cooperation in the overall perspective. We should regard Nordic cooperation as an important regional cooperation in Northern Europe. This means that the challenges in our region often need to be addressed in a broader European context. Examples are the fight for socially motivated schemes in our countries. At the same time, however, we also need to focus on more regional challenges. Let me focus here on two areas that I actually think will be central also in the next few years. One dimension that has always been central, but which I think will become even more central in the future, is the cultural cooperation we have in the Nordic region. Why is that important? Well, simply because the cultural community is the common identity of our Nordic countries. The Nordic Council of Ministers now has a review of the organisation of cultural policy cooperation. I think that is absolutely necessary and absolutely correct. But what I fear is that the constant reorganization of the Nordic Council of Ministers' priorities can lead to a weakening of the cultural policy dimensions. I think that would be unfortunate, given that we still believe that we have a Nordic identity, and that we want to keep a Nordic community. In concrete terms, this means the community of languages that we have in the Nordic countries. Here we meet challenges; the young generation lacks knowledge of the Nordic languages, and English is also becoming the Nordic common language. I think it's a step back. It's practical, but I also think it's an advantage if we can use our native language even when we meet in the Nordic countries. We need to know more about what affects the community of languages, and what tools are good for stimulating and providing knowledge of our Nordic languages. I think it is sad if Astrid Lindgren's Swedish TV episodes are to get Norwegian subtitles. We have a challenge in relation to the Nordic community. The barrier to borders is another challenge. The companies in our border areas are experiencing practical problems. We have to solve them. I am pleased with measures that are now being taken both to identify them and to solve them. I also think that we have a challenge in terms of making the common Nordic labour market available to all Northern residents. It makes no sense to ca. 700,000 Northern residents with permanent residence permits in our Nordic countries do not share in the common labour market. That's what I think is resource-loss. I'm glad that someone wants to get on with it, but I'm recording that a political pressure is needed here to get it done. I hope that Norway will be able to do that – put a political pressure on our Nordic co-operation countries to get a good and a common labour market for all.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-26.ana.ud2160e288	The Government's communication on Nordic cooperation is marked by the same idea as previous communications. It focuses on cooperation to the east to the Baltic, EU and Russia/Barents Sea areas, while western Nordic cooperation is mentioned with a kind of cool distance. When will it be for the Norwegian authorities that we have great opportunities also in the west? When will it be for the Norwegian authorities that, through strong Western-Nordic cooperation, we can gain control of huge natural resources in the Norwegian Sea? We can take Russia and the Barents Sea in the same sling. The Coastal Party will fight for the Norwegian people to regain their identity as a Western Norse people. We are a coastal state that has common interests with our neighbours in the west. We have a special coastal culture to take care of. We have kept our scattered settlement in small communities. We have a special fishing culture that is sustainable and forward-looking. We are not subject to the EU. This is a strength, not a weakness. The Communication talks about Norwegian participation in the Baltic Sea Council, the Barents Council, the Arctic Council and the northern dimension of the EU. Why is there not talk of Norwegian participation in the Western Norwegian Council? It's hardly a coincidence. But the Coastal Party will never give up its fight for a full Norwegian membership of the West Norwegian Council. The Communication states that Nordic fisheries cooperation is to ‘encourage sustainable development in the fisheries sectors of the Nordic countries’. Cooperation shall be based on «the fisheries policy of each country», it says. However, the fact is that the Nordic EU countries are subject to a common fisheries policy in the EU and that the EU has taken over the management of their fishing zones. Therefore, Sweden, Denmark and Finland have very limited opportunities to maintain a Nordic fisheries policy that would differ from the EU. Sweden has had major difficulties in getting EU-wide penetration of fishing restrictions in the Baltic Sea in order to save fish stocks there. In the Coastal Party, we say this: there will be no common Nordic fisheries policy until Sweden, Denmark and Finland leave the EU. Meanwhile, we should seek to build a common fisheries policy for the Nordic countries not subject to the EU, namely the Faeroe Islands, Greenland, Iceland and Norway. The Communication talks about removing border barriers between the Nordic countries, but there is little talk about the problems that arise when the Nordic and EU borders are opened. Before Denmark, Sweden and Finland joined the EU and Norway and Iceland in the EEA, we had a passport union in the Nordic region with external border controls. The border control has now been phased out across the EU area. As a result, immigration to Norway has come out of control. Last night there were a lot of people on the lion's tray and demonstrated. Should they believe that they have disclosed their identity to the police? When people throw passports and travel documents after crossing Norway’s border, it can’t be because they need protection. I've already said that from this pulpit. If we are to regain this control, Norway must withdraw from Schengen and introduce border controls against the EU. The Nordic passport union can only be restored once Sweden, Denmark and Finland have resigned from the EU. The common labour market has been replaced by a common labour market with the whole of the EU area. This creates increasing social dumping. Norway should notify itself out of the EEA in order to regain control of the Norwegian labour market. Of course, the Nordic countries should cooperate closely with the EU, Russia and the United States, but they should not submit to any of these major acts. A Nordic region in the EU will slowly, but surely lose its identity as an area of close democracy, social well-being, a good environment and control of natural resources.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-26.ana.ud2160e309	I am very pleased that there is a broad consensus in the Committee that Nordic cooperation must continuously demonstrate the ability to change and adaptability in order to achieve our objective of Nordic benefit, and to maintain the vital public and political credibility and legitimacy. Here is also the explanation that the rapporteur can rightly point out that the robustness of the Helsinki Agreement in the international context is quite unique. The Nordic governments are seeking to be at the forefront of central social developments in the Nordic countries and in our neighbourhoods. The question is, can we do that? My answer is yes, with one reservation. The answer is yes because Nordic cooperation has been clearly identified in some very important areas in recent years. We have e.g. address the problems of border barriers between the Nordic countries and make everyday life easier for many Nordic citizens, such as the United Kingdom. crosses the boundaries of work, studies, marriages or the existence of a pensioner in a neighbouring country. The answer is yes because we are also increasing Nordic efforts in North-West Russia, while strengthening political and professional cooperation with Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania. And the answer is yes because we are about to redefine our efforts in research and innovation, so that Nordic cooperation can strengthen the competitiveness of the Nordic countries through increased competence and innovation. My reservation on the question of whether we have fulfilled the Nordic vision is an expression of what I see as a completely necessary impatience and a desire for an even better result. The Nordic structures may ‘paint slowly’ — sometimes too slowly — but the result is usually good. We're going to take that with us, and at the same time we're going to have to be impatient. Nordic cooperation needs to be evaluated in the light of a changed Europe with new cooperative structures, as the representative, Mr Brørby, also called for. Poul Schlüter's recent progress report on border barriers confirms that border barriers are now on the agenda throughout the Council of Ministers structure. The Border Policy Secretariat, in conjunction with the Secretariat of the Nordic Council of Ministers in Copenhagen, shall strengthen and coordinate the professional and administrative part of the work on border barriers and ensure that significant border barriers are brought to decision-makers. Progress has also been made in the information work and a Border Policy Cooperation Forum with the relevant information services has been established to strengthen the overall information effort. There is no doubt that correct and relevant information in itself addresses many barriers to borders, not least in cases where objective differences between Nordic countries result in some barriers not being addressed by other means. Moreover, it is very gratifying – I would like to congratulate those who have made it possible – that the Swedish-Norwegian Border Assistance Office, the Border Service in Morocco, has received a European prize from the Association of European Border Regions as one of Europe's best cross-border projects. It shows that it's useful! It is also very positive that the Council of Ministers should pay particular attention to frontier barriers in the field of business. Ministers of Economic Affairs have already compiled a catalogue of concrete barriers to Nordic business, and now they are going to start work on clearing as many of the roads as possible. Removing border barriers between Nordic countries is the best way to realise and make visible the importance of Nordic cooperation for citizens. Some concrete examples: during the Nordic Council session, the Nordic Ministers responsible are required to sign a revised agreement on population registration. This agreement allows for a new birth number much faster than in the past when you contact the Nordic countries’ population registers. This has been a very big problem, because a birth number is necessary to create a bank account, apply for loans and other completely central conditions of establishment. Another example: a common Nordic labour market is important for the continued growth and prosperity of our countries. The agreement on the common Nordic labour market is therefore to be revised by the end of next year and the employment ministers have decided to increase the availability of Northern residents to job vacancies in the Nordic region. The tax area is occupying us all. A Nordic tax group has identified a number of border obstacles that are now to be assessed by the Nordic Finance Ministers. The tax group proposes, inter alia: to establish a Nordic tax portal to strengthen access to information for citizens and authorities regarding taxation in the Nordic region. The group also proposes the establishment of a virtual common Nordic tax office, where specific tax matters can be presented. The problem of so-called double taxation of pensions is essentially a Norwegian-Swedish phenomenon and is in reality linked to the payment of social security contributions for healthcare. The case is relatively complex, and every year in the Nordic Council context, it has been particularly concerned with it, because it affects several different legislations, including: the Nordic tax agreement, the social security rules of the EEA Agreement and the national tax rules of the countries concerned. So this is complicated, but the bigger challenge for Nordic cooperation. There are a number of interests involved in finding future possible solutions. The representative Lyngstad drew up the cultural cooperation in the Nordic region. In many ways both language and culture are, in an enlarged context, glued to the folk culture community in the Nordic region. I have also noticed the representative Lyngstad's emphasis on prioritising culture in budgetary terms. Another important issue for the Co-operation Ministers is the Council of Ministers' cooperation with North-West Russia and the three Baltic countries, since they are now part of an enlarged EU. We have now drawn up a proposal for new guidelines for this cooperation, which will be discussed at the Nordic Council's session in Stockholm in a few days' time. The starting point for the guidelines is that Nordic cooperation with the Baltic countries has been successful and has helped these countries to take significant steps forward in their societal development and international anchoring. This is one of several evidences that Nordic cooperation is producing results. At the same time, significant challenges remain in North-West Russia, where we believe that the Nordic region can contribute to positive development. The guidelines therefore suggest that cooperation with North-West Russia should be extended, while political and technical cooperation with Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania should be strengthened and made more sustainable and long-term. In both North-West Russia and the Baltic region, particular attention will be paid to cooperation on research and innovation, social and health issues, the environment and sustainable development, IT and cross-border efforts. In North-West Russia, cooperation on the development of democracy is also continuing. A dedicated Russia programme shall address the development of cooperation with Russia. The increased emphasis on cooperation with North-West Russia is of great importance for the future Nordic utility and relevance of the Council of Ministers. It is therefore regrettable that we have not received the final approval from Russia to open an information office in Kaliningrad, but only administrative matters remain, so we hope that this can now be resolved after many years of work. The Nordic Council of Ministers is also very concerned about the potential of cooperation with the EU and other regional organisations involved in the neighbourhoods. Cooperation ministers actively monitor their adopted policies for such cooperation with a focus on information development and concrete cooperation. I also fully agree with Mr Ryan that we, as Nordic politicians, must also focus on the area of the West-Nordic region, while at the same time having a wider geographical perspective on our work. The discussion of future parliamentary cooperation in Northern Europe, perhaps with a view to establishing a parliamentary partnership for the whole area, is a particularly interesting initiative. The government side is continuously working to co-operate and strengthen its efforts in the complex image of international organisations in northern Europe. There is therefore no doubt that we should and must have a dialogue on our respective perspectives and thoughts about the region. Here, the Government and parliamentarians have a common interest in working for more efficient forms of organisation. The rapporteur's statement today on future parliamentary cooperation is both forward-looking and sought-after, and it is important that this debate be continued. I have noticed, therefore, that the Committee asks the Government to come back with an assessment in next year's big message, which also includes issues related to a possible parliamentary partnership for Northern Europe. Now, of course, the Storting itself is going to decide on its forms of cooperation across regional borders, but I see the Committee's comment as an invitation to consider alternatives or supplements to the Nordic model of the Helsinki Agreement on a rather free basis. Parliamentary models and government cooperation models must be seen in a context. In this respect, however, I have to make a reservation on the extent to which the Government will be able to conclude or recommend in the next year's big message how parliamentarians will organise their possible North European cooperation. Nordic cooperation has been renewed strongly in recent years, but there is a need for continuous renewal. Much remains, and much will always remain if Nordic cooperation is to be able to be a forward-looking force for the good life of the Nordic countries and the Nordic countries. Renewal requires that we be able to make the necessary choices and priorities. The Committee itself draws attention, inter alia, to: security and defence policy issues, aid policy and the EU and the EEA as relevant in an enlarged Nordic context. In this respect, the signals we receive from the Nordic Council are of great importance. I look forward to the debate in Stockholm next week, although I cannot be present at that time. I therefore also look forward to continuing good dialogue with the Council and with the Stortinge on future Nordic cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-26.ana.ud2160e358	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-26.ana.ud2160e362	As Minister of Cooperation Ludvigsen is not going to participate in the Nordic Council in Stockholm, I would challenge him on a few things. The budgetary process in the Nordic Council has improved, but moving money is still almost impossible. There is still too little permeability in the budget, and there is a place between 1700 and 2000 different projects that receive funding and live their own lives. It's unclear when they start, it's unclear when they end, but what's perhaps the most challenging is getting to know whether the projects have sufficient Nordic benefit. The second thing that has met an incredible number of bureaucratic counter-arguments is the telemedicine project. It's a frontier barrier project, because we have different legislation that so far makes it completely impossible to use telemedicine data across borders. The Budget Group, as I lead, has done something about this, but my challenge to the Council of State is this: will he now deal with this with his cooperation ministers, be a little fun and a little angry with them, and say that next year's budget must become more transparent and more flexible for parliamentary influence? And does he want to put the telemedicine project in place?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-26.ana.ud2160e371	The representative of Brørby, with extensive experience in Nordic cooperation, points out that the budgetary processes of Nordic cooperation are cumbersome, and that it is and have been difficult to move money within the system. It is clear that there are tensions and different priorities between the different countries and between the Council and the Council of Ministers. I am at least pleased that we can see on both sides of the table that there has been progress and that there has been a willingness on both sides, both in the Nordic Council of Ministers and in the Nordic Council of Ministers, to find cooperation models and solutions to make the budgetary process both more transparent and more flexible. But we do not come from the fact that there will be different political priorities that ultimately determine the composition of the budget. So that's right, as it's also pointed out, there are a lot of projects. Both the Council of Ministers and the Council are keen to launch new projects. Of the central and important are telemedicine, and as far as I can be amusing, I'm going to promise the representative Brørby that I'm going to be funny both in terms of telemedicine and the budget next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-26.ana.ud2160e378	No more words have been asked for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-26.ana.ud2160e381	Nordic cooperation is, of course, sometimes referred to in rather spooky terms. I think we should stop doing that. I believe that today's debate, not least with the background that Norway does not participate in European political cooperation, only underlines that we have – at least we should – much greater ambitions in this area than the individual states. For this, the Norwegian interest is highest. That is why I fully share the view of Mr Wohnning that it must be Norway's ambition to give the Arctic Council far more political significance than it has today. I have had the pleasure of participating in the work of the Arctic Parliamentary Committee. It has been very interesting to see from the inside which interests should get much more focus from the Norwegian side. Many will always ask the question: what is the purpose of this work, and what do we see again from this work? And there is no doubt that economic and political development has contributed to, whether we want to or not, to some extent to correct the spotlight away from our northern regions. And this should maybe worry us a little bit more than what's the case in these days. First of all, many ask the question: What do we see again from results? That question has also been raised in today's rather interesting debate. Among other things, in the Arctic Parliamentary Committee, which now has Norwegian leadership at Hill-Marta Solberg, a considerable effort is being made to focus on our northern regions. And we see, as the rapporteur has pointed out, that we have several dragons from our fellow brothers and sisters in the Arctic nations. Specially, I want to underline the work that Canada is doing. At the same time, I would like to stress that it still has to be our job to contribute to the United States becoming a somewhat more active participant in this work, to say it cautiously, in relation to the efforts they are making today. I think that if we had not actively participated in this work, we would not have seen the result of the establishment of the Arctic University. We had not seen the result of the focus that has now been put through a thorough report on joint Arctic cooperation in the IT/GDP sector, where we again see that the indigenous people in the respective countries are at risk of being re-hooked by the load, if we do not give them an opportunity to share in this work. One of the most likely climate reports has been prepared on the initiative of the Arctic Parliamentary Committee, which is supportive of the work carried out by the Arctic Council, and the climate report prepared under American leadership, by Professor Robert Corell, should probably have earned a far greater audience and reader than has been the case in any case in his own country, the United States, but also in the Nordic countries. When we see the pace of ice melting in the Arctic, the concern in the Nordic countries too should have been slightly greater than it is in these days. And when we see the increasing concentration of greenhouse gases, mercury and other toxic concentrations – so it is not reduced, but increasing – in these strategic waters related to most of our economic and security interests, it illustrates that this work carried out is primarily in Norwegian interest. Norway is the country that will be negatively affected primarily as a result of the brutal climate change that we see already today, and then it is in our interest that this work will receive the attention it deserves.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-26.ana.ud2160e394	First of all, for the sake of order, I made a correction to a small fault connection I was guilty of in my main post: I confused the date of the Nordic Council as an institution and the Helsinki Agreement and was injured to say that the Helsinki Agreement is 52 years old. It's ten years too much. The Helsinki Agreement was concluded in 1962, while the Nordic Council and the institutional parliamentary cooperation began in 1952. A few comments on things that have been highlighted in the debate: The representative Inge Ryan had some interesting reflections on the need for efficiency and targeting of Nordic cooperation. It is not difficult to share his views on it, but I have to be allowed to express some wonder that the spokesman for the Socialist Left regrets the fact that there are too many proposals and recommendations that seize the apparatus in the Nordic Council, because if there is any party group that is good at producing exactly that, it is the party group that Ryan himself belongs to. So there is no need for serious reorganisation measures to put an end to the flow of distracting proposals about all conceivable and unimaginable peripheral conditions that really do not belong in Nordic cooperation. You can just end up with that. To the fundamental question of the use of resources in Nordic cooperation, my view is that one of the advantages of long-standing Nordic cooperation is that it is one of the few international cooperation projects that have a sufficient investigative apparatus and that have the necessary prerequisites to be able to work on new policy initiatives. Therefore, it is twice as sad if we assume that most of this capacity contributes to maintaining routine internal Nordic cooperation. That is why one of the objectives of the working group set up by the Bureau of the Nordic Council, to which I am taking part from the Norwegian side, is precisely to find out how we can contribute so that the capacity and competence we have in the Nordic Council context can be focused, i.e. by choosing at any time to give priority to the overall objectives we want to pursue, and that it can help to take new initiatives and make new policy responses in a wider European context. Let me point out the experience of the development of the parliamentary Baltic Sea cooperation, because it illustrates this point very well. It has always been the Nordic Council that has borne the secretarial burden of developing the structure of Baltic Sea cooperation, simply because the Nordic Council is the only existing institution capable of carrying out such work. There would be reason to believe that if we are to move forward with the initiative on a wider North European cooperation structure, it will also assume that it is the Nordic Council which has to offer to bear today's burden and beg to get something like this up and running. My experience, especially from the year I was president of the Nordic Council in 2003, is that in other European cooperation forums and also when you visit other national states in Europe, one of the things they envy us in the Nordic region – they don't hide it either – is that we have been able to build up such an organisation that is able to run politics. Then it is all the more important that we, who are responsible for that policy, the elected people, are able to use that device to conduct policies instead of operating with purely routine maintenance of established structures. So a little remark at last about the statements of the representative Bastisen. I have no difficulty in following his thinking on the relationship with the Western Nordic countries and the Western Nordic countries, but I would like to remind you that, with regard to precisely the relationship with the Western Nordic Council, the problem is not a lack of interest from the Norwegian side, but there is a lack of interest from the Western Nordic Council to invite Norway to become a member of the Council. And I guess I don't reveal a big secret when I'm suggesting that the background for it is that of the three participating members of the Western Nordic Council who are the largest, Iceland, at the moment doesn't look very excited to get another big brother who, by its size, will take their place in that cooperation. But there has been a happy development by the fact that in recent years the Norwegian increase has been invited to participate as an observer in the Western Nordic Council, and I believe that it will eventually be possible naturally, so that it becomes natural for Norway to participate on an equal footing with the others in that cooperation. The representative of Bastesen, if I understood him correctly, will complete the Nordic passport union. It's quite eye-catching. There are some people who are happy to set the clock back, but there should be limits to ambitions as to how far you want to put it back. If that is something that has become part of our common Nordic political culture and the awareness of individual citizens, it is indeed that in the Nordic region we have for quite a long time become familiar with ourselves as a matter of course that we can travel unhinderedly back and forth between the Nordic countries. Let me conclude by reminding you that a joint committee on what was Bastesen's main point, namely that this should be an instrument for getting Denmark, Sweden and Finland to leave the EU, if I understood him correctly – I would think that the prospects there are long – has said exactly the opposite, very clearly and clearly, namely that Nordic cooperation and cooperation within the EU are not in any tension relationship with each other, but on the contrary are parts of one project. An overall committee has also pointed out that the development of the EU towards greater transparency and democracy is a joyous development.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-26.ana.ud2160e419	I asked for the floor because of what the representative spoke about in relation to recommendations. That, I think, was a rather strange statement by a experienced parliamentarian. What I was trying to say in my post was that I think the way we work in the Nordic Council, where we have a system of recommendations that confuses the system for quite a long time, is very labour-intensive, and I don't think it's an inner path for the way to work. I think we need to find more flexible ways to both make faster decisions and are more cost-effective and interesting for politicians. That's what I tried to express in my article. Then the representative said Inge Wohnning that then SV's sister parties and SV could end. No, we're not going to boycott the Nordic Council. That's how the system is. We noted that we wanted a change to make it more flexible, expansive and cost-effective. We didn't say we wanted to boycott the Nordic Council. What Inge Wohnung says is that we have to stop dealing with the rules. No, we're not going to stop it, but we're going to deal with it in a factual way – not in a spooky way, but in a factual way – how we're going to change the Nordic Council so that it becomes a more exciting body. We're not going to boycott the way it works.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-26.ana.ud2160e428	The representative of Inge Wohnung has spoken twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-26.ana.ud2160e431	I thought, President, that this was a matter of permanent special arrangements for the rapporteurs. This is probably under the category of obvious misunderstanding. I have never suggested that SV would wish or that I would recommend them, to boycott anything in this context. I just pointed out that if the problem that Ryan wanted to address is that there are far too many crackdowns in the Nordic Council of Members that consume too much procedural capacity, then it is a very easy way to solve that problem, namely, that individual party groups are cleaning up their own flora of such members' proposals. And what I allowed myself to point out is that it's a fact that it's exactly the party group that Ryan himself belongs to, which is the most important contributor – not in quality, but in quantity – in terms of members' proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-26.ana.ud2160e438	The President regrets the fact that the President-in-Office was eaten by one minute. Of course, the case spokesperson has the right to take the word several times. No more people have asked for the word on the matter. 1 and 2. [[Footing, see page 245]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-26.ana.ud2160e453	As Mr Stortinget is aware, the World Trade Organisation (WTO) General Council adopted on 1 August a framework for further negotiations. This was an important breakthrough in the WTO process, and the result has been subject to wide attention. In view of the importance of the WTO for Norway, and in the light of the break-through of the summer, I have requested that the Stortingen report on the status of the WTO negotiations. In particular, I would like to explain what the Government has done to get the negotiations going again in Geneva, and to give an overview of the main decisions in Geneva. I would also like to mention the opportunities they offer, and the challenges they represent for Norway, and I would like to briefly – I stress briefly – outline the further negotiations in the WTO. The ministerial conference in Cancún, Mexico, in September 2003, was to provide the political clarifications necessary for the final phase of the negotiations. This was not the case, and instead you got a full break in the negotiations. The reason for this was the strong opposition of developing countries to the need for negotiations on the so-called Singapore issues, in particular investment and competition. However, the main reason for this was the differences in the agricultural sector. The United States and the EU, which are major exporters of agricultural products, did not wish to reduce their subsidies unless they had increased access to important developing markets in return. A new group of developing countries, with key players such as Brazil, South Africa, China and India at the forefront – the so-called G20 group – came on the road for the first time in Cancún, demanding both extensive market access to developed countries and greater reductions in the trade distorting support of developed countries, while not being willing to open their markets. After Cancún and several other broken deadlines there were few who believed that it would be possible to get speedy and real progress in the negotiations. At the same time, we were all aware of the importance of that happening. Too many groupings were at stake. For all of us, it was the future of the WTO as a credible trade-promoting organisation. Therefore, between Cancún and the Geneva meetings this summer, a significant activity has been carried out to lead the negotiations back on track. Both the United States, the EU and the developing countries group G20 have taken important initiatives. Nor on the Norwegian side have we been lying on the lat side. I myself have, among other things: visited the United States, Japan, Malaysia, Indonesia, Singapore, Thailand, South Africa, India and Kenya for WTO purposes. I have also had discussions with the Director-General of the WTO and attended WTO meetings in Paris and Davos. WTO negotiations have also been a firm element on the agenda of ministerial visits to Norway. I have primarily used these meetings to explain and elaborate Norwegian positions. Among other things, I have highlighted the importance of agriculture for important non-commercial reasons, such as food security, housing and landscape protection. I have underlined that Norway, as a small player, seems to be slightly disruptive to prices on the world market. Many countries have shown understanding of our situation and of the need for flexibility so that we can maintain viable agriculture in the future. The significant problems such as the Cancún proposal for a tariff ceiling – i.e.: setting a limit on how high customs duties a Member State can have — will create for us, has not gone unnoticed either. However, I have some doubts about the depth of their understanding when it is to be balanced against their own interests. This is fairly evident by pointing out how difficult it will be to meet our need for flexibility without allowing large countries to use the same approach to avoid opening up their markets. Or as South Africa's former trade minister Alec Erwin said at our meeting in Cape Town in March: How can we create a small window with the exception of Norway without simultaneously giving the EU a door they can walk out of? An alliance between Norway and the developing countries on access to the maintenance of national agricultural production has been established from some quarters, including in the United Kingdom. This is probably a little dangerous path. My conversations show that what developing countries want is both access to their products on the markets of the rich countries and the ability to protect their own agriculture. Developing countries want to protect themselves through special schemes, including: by not opening up their domestic markets to certain products which are particularly important for their development. This is in line with the thinking behind the Doha Round: developed countries will assume greater commitments than developing countries. We have worked actively with, among other things, Japan, Switzerland, Iceland and South Korea in the so-called G10 Group against the proposal for a tariff ceiling. However, a main argument from agricultural exporting countries is that the highest rates of customs duties in developed countries are on the products that are most important to them, for example. meat and cereals. The challenge is therefore to come up with ideas on how to increase market access – which we have committed ourselves to both in the WTO agricultural agreement and through the Doha declaration – while maintaining sufficiently high tariffs for our nuclear products. In the discussions, I have also placed great emphasis on safeguarding our offensive interests, especially on issues of lower customs duties on industrial products and fish, improved market access in the field of services and tightening the possibilities for the use of anti-dumping measures. Although in these consultations several signals of increased willingness to negotiate were gradually received, I must admit that I had long doubts as to whether it would be possible to reach agreement this summer. However, as this proved possible, I think it was due to a joint recognition that no country has served a weakened WTO in the longer term. With regard to the outcome of the negotiations in Geneva this summer, I would like to state, not least in the light of the debate we have had at home, that the decision of the Governing Council is not a final agreement. What has been decided is principles and leads for the further negotiations, not a final package. Then it becomes strange that some people go out with non-slip statements about dramatic consequences, for example. for Norwegian agriculture, already at this stage of the negotiations. It's a long way to go, and we're not going to prejudge the events. We have to negotiate on most of the sizes of numbers in all the areas of negotiation before we can draw conclusions, whether positive or negative. In this context, it is important to recall that the Doha Round is a ‘single-undertaking’, i.e. that nothing has been decided before the decision has been taken. This means that we must accept the entire negotiating package as a whole. We can't pick out the parts that we don't like. When Norway chose to join the Geneva consensus, it was because the government considered the decision to be a decisive step towards completing the Doha Round. Of course, we will continue to work actively for our priority objectives in all areas of negotiation. At the same time, we must contribute to an overall result that everyone can live with. I don't want to hide that this can involve difficult choices. However, with the long-term importance of the WTO system for stability, economic growth and prosperity development, it is the government’s clear objective that Norway should actively contribute to – and not stand in the way of – solutions that can bring the Doha Round safely into port. As a country with a small and open economy, Norway is dependent on the development of contract-based legal rules for world trade to curb it for the strongest. Norway is not served by a development where bilateral and multilateral but limited free trade agreements dominate the picture to an even greater extent. With regard to the acceptance of the agricultural component in particular, this was discussed in depth at ministerial level in Geneva, including the following: in the G10 Group. In this and other groupings there was general agreement on the proposals that were on the table late Saturday 31 July. It would hardly be understood – or be appropriate for Norwegian interests – whether Norway should have opted out of this consensus. I have noticed that although there has been criticism of the outcome in Geneva, the critics have awakened to claim that Norway, like the 147th and the last country, would have overturned the negotiations. But that was, of course, the last and seventh problem. The framework provides for further negotiations on agriculture, fish and other industrial products and simplification of trade procedures. In addition, negotiations will continue in other areas of major importance for Norway, such as improving market access in the field of services and tightening the regulatory framework for the use of anti-dumping measures. Negotiations on the framework have, in practice, blocked further progress in these areas. This perspective is important for Norway. In Geneva, all attention was paid to agriculture, but the result is that we are now moving on and can focus more on these for Norway offensive areas. This includes important opportunities for Norway. It is the government's opinion that the leaders in the framework will give us the opportunity to take good care of Norway's interests in these negotiations. The interests of developing countries are also well covered, providing them with a better basis for increased participation in freer world trade. I will now briefly outline the main features of this framework, in particular in areas of greatest importance for Norway – first agriculture, which has been and will continue to be the most difficult area of negotiation. I would like to briefly remind you that the mandate of Doha, which has been accepted by all WTO Member States, states that the negotiations will lead to significant improvements in market access, substantial reductions in trade distorting national agricultural aid and reductions with a view to phasing out export subsidies. The question is not whether there will be any changes to the framework conditions, but what changes will be made. Special treatment for developing countries shall be integrated into all parts of the negotiations and non-commercial aspects shall be taken into account. In the summer, agriculture was the subject of very complicated discussions until the last. However, it can be concluded that the result is significantly better for Norwegian agriculture than that in the Cancún draft last autumn. The result provides a good basis for negotiating the main priorities of Norway in the next phases, thus enabling a viable agriculture to be maintained in Norway. This is an important objective of the Government. The most difficult thing to do with Norwegian eyes is the section on market access. From the Norwegian side, as I said at the outset, it has been very important to avoid a maximum limit on how high customs duties can be. As expected, this became very difficult since none of the main actors in the negotiations opposed such a maximum limit. However, the text here no longer states that the maximum level should be introduced, but that the role of such a tariff should be assessed. Here is a possibility that the Government will actively seek to avoid customs duties. I would also like to draw up the resolution on so-called sensitive products in the field of agriculture. Here too, the text for Norway is better than the Cancún proposal. Although the highest rates of duty should in principle be reduced the most, for sensitive products lower tariff reductions are possible. This will allow us to maintain protection for products of major importance for Norwegian agricultural production. The number of sensitive products will be subject to further negotiations. However, it is clear that the principle of significantly improved market access applies to all products — including the sensitive ones. This will be achieved through a combination of tariff reductions and increased tariff quotas. At the same time, the Geneva text clarifies that the balance of negotiations will be maintained only if the result also reflects the sensitive nature of these products. The extent of the exemption for sensitive products and how to implement increased market access for such products will be among the main issues for Norway in the further negotiations. With regard to the question of reductions in agricultural transfers, it was a Norwegian priority to avoid excessive cuts in the area and animal aid. Here we were able to put in place a special scheme to make Norway look much better than it looked in Cancún. The Geneva decision briefly states that, as a general rule, a ceiling for the area and animal aid shall be set at a maximum of 5 pst. of the value of production. However, it is open to countries with a disproportionate share of their aid in this category to benefit from a derogation from the 5 pst threshold. This is essential as the general rule would have meant that this Norwegian aid scheme would have to be reduced by 87 pst. compared to the level of the day. But let me make it clear that how much we actually have to reduce the area and animal support we will have to negotiate. For non-trade distorting aid such as: environmental measures, research resources and the redeployment scheme are not subject to any upper limits. This is important in order to ensure agriculture. Such a restriction would include, inter alia: reduced the scope for any future change of agricultural policy. Furthermore, a reduction in the sum of all trade distorting aid, such as in the case of Norway, is added. price support. The countries with the highest aid shall reduce most. The total reduction should be negotiated. However, it is already agreed that the total aid should be reduced by 20 pst. the first year of the contract. A final important result in the field of agriculture is that Member States agree to abolish all forms of export subsidies on agricultural products. This was crucial in order to get a result in Geneva. Let me remind you that the objective of the abolition of export subsidies was broadly in favour of the Storting during the treatment of the globalisation report in spring. Norway has limited its agricultural alliances. For this reason, cooperation between G10 countries has been important and positive for Norway. – So far the agricultural area. The second area of major negotiation for Norway is market access for industrial products. The industrial products include fish, and it was adopted in Geneva a text that in substance is the same as that on the table in Cancún. Here, important leads are given to achieve an ambitious result. It is stated that customs reductions should be made on the basis of a formula that reduces high rates of duty more than low. In addition, further work is to be carried out on the elimination of customs duties for seven sectors of export interest for developing countries, with fish as one of them. This offers good opportunities for real improvement in market access for Norwegian industrial and fish producers in important traditional and new markets. Exports of various industrial products, including fish, face high customs barriers on many markets outside the EEA territory, while fish and fish products in particular face customs barriers within the EEA. However, it is clear that there are still difficult negotiations ahead of us. The third main area of Geneva was the question of dealing with the so-called Singapore issues, i.e.: trade procedures, investments, competition and transparency in public procurement. The result of the negotiations is that negotiations on simplification of trade procedures should be started in this round, while there will be no negotiations on the three other issues. This is a reasonable compromise. Simplification of trade procedures is briefly aimed at harmonising, standardising and simplifying formal trade-related practices, such as: in the case of border crossings and customs clearances. Simpler and more standardised procedures will contribute both to cost savings and to greater efficiency in the economy. Fourthly, development issues: a key objective of the Doha Round is to better integrate developing countries into world trade, so that they are more involved in global economic growth than they are today. Increased participation in international trade, provided it is carried out in a sustainable way and benefits the entire population, will make a significant contribution to growth and increased well-being for developing countries. The government attaches great importance to the interest of developing countries in the negotiations and to the special consideration given to LDCs. I am therefore pleased to note that developing countries are becoming increasingly active in the WTO. The summer’s decision would not have been possible without this active involvement of individual countries and groups of developing countries. Both the so-called G20 group, the Africa group, the MUL group and the group of African cotton-producing countries have made significant progress in the last year. This is positive and has been necessary to get the results you have actually achieved. At the same time, negotiations increasingly reveal that developing countries are not a homogeneous group with common interests on important issues. Some countries have offensive interests and resources to actively participate in the negotiations. Other countries, such as African countries and the MUL Group have concerns about the impact of negotiations on them and their own ability to deal with the negotiation process. As a result, many of the poorest countries are committed to obtaining as many exemptions and special schemes as possible, which are not unproblematic since the overall objective is to create a consistent and coherent international trading system. In addition, developing countries are divided into preferences, i.e. special arrangements providing groups of developing countries with lower rates of duty than those applicable on a general basis. For developing countries benefiting from preferential arrangements for their exports to important markets, general tariff reductions will weaken their competitive advantage. On the other hand, developing countries do not benefit from such preferences and therefore want general tariff reductions. This conflict became very clear in Geneva this summer. In Geneva, the interests of developing countries were safeguarded both through the general guidelines and through specific schemes. Firstly, developing countries will have better market access for their goods and services through general liberalisation. Secondly, they will have a greater opportunity than developed countries to maintain the protection of their own markets. This is particularly true of LDCs, which are not required to make customs reductions. In addition, developing countries will have more time to implement a new WTO agreement. It is also assumed that the WTO's technical assistance and competences should be increased. My impression is that most developing countries believe that the framework adopted takes developing countries' interests seriously. Let me also briefly explain two other areas of special importance for Norway: services and legislation. Since most WTO countries consider that the Doha mandate provides sufficient guidance for negotiations in these areas, the mention of these is very brief in the decision of the summer in Geneva. As regards service negotiations, it was decided that Member States should have a deadline until the end of April 2005 to submit revised offers in the negotiations. However, it is a challenge here that many Member States have some significant barriers to trade in services and that many countries have still not presented their first offers. Norway has submitted its first offer and will therefore work actively with other Member States to help several countries submit their offers. The main services sectors for Norway are shipping, energy, telecommunications and financial services. Negotiations on the revision of the existing WTO legislation, in particular with regard to anti-dumping measures, are of high priority. The need for such improvements is evident when we see the measures with which Norway’s exports of salmon and trout have been met in certain key markets. Our aim for these negotiations is to reduce the discretionary and arbitrary use of such anti-dumping measures and to prevent abuse for purely protectionist purposes. We share these objectives with important countries like Brazil, Japan, China and India. The main challenge for Norway and our peers will be to prevent the increased market access we achieve in customs negotiations from being undermined by anti-dumping measures. The main consequence of the summer's decision in the WTO General Council is that the negotiation process can now be continued to its fullest extent. This is very important for Norway. If we had not succeeded in the summer, confidence in the global trading system could be weakened. We can already see that this summer's decision has led to a change of mood and pace in Geneva. It has been set up a close pre-programme for action up to the end of the year, and it is a constructive tone in the discussions. At the same time, it is clear that the forthcoming elections in the United States and the changes in the European Commission do not prejudge clarifications on difficult political issues until early 2005. At present, therefore, work is concentrated mainly on discussions on technical issues that need to be clarified before the substantive negotiations on the elements of a final agreement can take place. The next WTO Ministerial Conference will take place in Hong Kong in December next year. This implies recognition of something that has been clear for a long time, namely that it will not be possible to complete the Doha Round as originally planned by 31 December 2004. However, no new formal deadline has been set for the conclusion of the negotiation round. How far you will be able to get by December 2005 is difficult to have a safe education about. However, few have expectations of the conclusion of the round of negotiations within that time, and I will therefore not be surprised if we have any further delays. Regardless of how the WTO's further negotiation process will proceed in the future, we will take an active part from the Norwegian side. We will continue to place great emphasis on establishing alliances and forms of cooperation in order to make our views felt. The government's priorities in the negotiations are determined. This summer's decision, which I have now explained, has led to no need to adjust this rate. At the same time, we must contribute to an overall result that everyone can live with. There is no reason to hide that this could involve difficult balances between Norwegian priorities in the final phase of the negotiations. Our objective must be to contribute to a total solution that is best suited to the overall interests of Norway. And as I said earlier, with the importance of the WTO for stability, economic growth and prosperity development, it is the government's clear objective that Norway should actively contribute – and not stand in the way of – solutions that can bring the Doha Round safely into port.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-26.ana.ud2160e595	The President will suggest that the distribution be submitted for consideration in a later meeting – and sees it as agreed.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-26.ana.ud2160e608	No one has asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 245]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-26.ana.ud2160e623	The annual NATO messages rarely give rise to uplifting debates in the Storting, simply because there is a high degree of consensus on the importance of cooperation in NATO and the importance of the alliance for Norwegian security. The exception to this harmony has been the SV Party, which has made its critical comments on the role of Norway in NATO throughout all years, and which has had the aim of: work towards the expansion of NATO with several Member States. help build a broad alliance against NATO's new strategy. propose the Norwegian notification of NATO.’.» Nor is it in the position we have today for treatment, something new: SV has a long special comment in which they explain their alternative security policy approach and their fundamental opposition to Norwegian membership of NATO. The new thing is that SV's alone has got a political dimension. From being an outermost demonstration train towards the main line of Norwegian security policy, there is now reason to believe that the SV NATO-critical programme will be involved and form the starting point for a possible cooperation project on the left. And that also gives a new dimension to the processing of this message. SV's leader, Kristin Halvorsen, has made it clear in a press release that the party has given up its position to withdraw Norway from NATO. However, she said in the same press release that she has not given up the party's opposition to NATO. It cannot mean anything other than that SV brings its very critical NATO position to any government cooperation and that it is as unclear as it has always been what any government cooperation between SV, the Workers' Party and the Centre will mean for Norwegian foreign and security policy. It is therefore particularly exciting to hear whether SV in this debate will stick to its comments. The Party hereby calls for «further development of defence and security cooperation with neighbouring countries» and for reference to North Sea cooperation. It points clearly in the direction that SV will break with the transatlantic dimension of Norwegian security policy and focus more on ad hoc defence cooperation with some EU countries. There will be a dramatic breach of Norway’s attitude to NATO cooperation over all years, namely that it is precisely the transatlantic dimension and the political arena that make NATO so important. There is also reason to recall that NATO is an organisation based on consensus and that decisions are expected to be followed up. The SV's position on NATO's decision, not least that the party did not support the Article 5 decision taken after 11 September 2001, does not promise well in this way. NATO membership will also have to have consequences for the SV's view of the Defence Facility and the level of funding, at least if we are to be taken seriously as NATO countries. A defence framework of DKK 4.4 billion lower than the majority in this Chamber will dramatically reduce our ability to make good contributions in NATO context. The communication on NATO cooperation describes the tensions in NATO as a result of the disagreement between the members of the Iraq issue. Although the disagreement over the Atlantic is not new, it is clear that the disagreement and disunity in the alliance was not only about Iraq, but also had deeper causes. Under the common heading ‘Fight against International Terrorism’ there is still disagreement on the emphasis of different security policy instruments and on the need for multilateral anchoring and international legitimisation. The majority of the Committee shares the government’s concerns about the unilateral approach of the United States and the use of individual coalitions of willing countries, rather than bringing cooperation within the NATO framework. As the Minister for Foreign Affairs, in a lecture in the Oslo Military Society earlier this month: ‘A number of European countries — and Norway — had probably decided that the United States had listened more to others — not least to the world community’s view as expressed in the UN. It would, in my opinion, support both the US's own case and our common ability to face problems together." The view of what is legitimate use of military power is considered to be the clearest dividing line between Europe and the United States today. The majority of the Committee emphasises that Norwegian participation in international operations must be based on international law and that political and moral legitimacy is also necessary. On this point, Norway clearly disagrees with current American positions. Unless it is a matter of self-defence, military action must be enshrined in the UN Security Council. Like many other European countries, Norway considered that there was not a sufficient basis for a military action against Iraq. The United States chose to ignore the United Nations and launched a military operation without a clear authorisation from the Security Council. Despite the disagreement in NATO, the time has not come to condemn the transatlantic cooperation, and again I will quote from the Foreign Minister's speech in Oslo Military Society: ‘The alternative to NATO will not be the EU, the UN or other multilateral organisations, but a bilateralisation of security policy.’ However, in order for NATO to maintain its relevance, there must be clear will on the European side for increased investment in real military defence capabilities adapted to the threats of our own time, and then there must be a clear willingness on the part of the United States to use NATO as the main political framework for security policy cooperation. Only in this way can the political role of NATO be strengthened. The majority point to the positive ring-effects of good transatlantic relations with the rest of the international system. Cooperation in NATO contributes to the strengthening of a multilateral international system where the United Nations is at the centre. The operation in Afghanistan is NATO’s most important task in the future. Here, NATO operates with a UN mandate. In a world where security threats are globalized, NATO has become a global player who is increasingly cooperating with the UN. In practice, UN peacekeeping efforts will be weakened if NATO does not set up. This is a very important point that the Norwegian foreign policy opposition has difficulty in capturing. It is simply about contributing to international peace efforts. Following the completion of this review within the Committee, NATO in Istanbul decided in June to assist the Iraqi Interim Government in the training and training of Iraqi security forces. NATO's decision is based on Security Council Resolution 1546, which expressly requests such support, as well as a direct request from the Interim Government of Iraq. It is very positive that there is a clear majority in this Chamber for Norway to be involved and contribute. The challenges of today’s Iraq require an overall international effort. Only in this way can we lay the foundation for good political and economic social development, based on human dignity. Finally, I would like to touch on cooperation between NATO and the EU. The majority of the Committee is of the opinion that a new division of labour between NATO and the EU is helping to strengthen transatlantic relations. The new EU Constitutional Treaty shows that the EU is increasingly committed to close and close cooperation in this area. It is fundamentally positive that the EU wants to take greater responsibility for Europe's security. This has also been an explicit American interest for a long time. We must not create an unnecessary contrast to NATO at this point. There is room for both strong NATO and more active European cooperation on foreign and security policy. In my view, the Progress Party and the Centre share a misunderstanding about the development of EU foreign and defence cooperation as a threat to NATO. However, it is a challenge for Norway to be able to participate fully in the security policy processes in our part of the world as a result of our being outside the EU. As the Government points out, the consultation arrangements established, including the so-called grant committees established during EU-led operations, have so far not worked satisfactorily. We must therefore work actively to strengthen contact with the EU, not only in specific operations, but also in general EU strength and defence planning.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-26.ana.ud2160e677	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-26.ana.ud2160e680	I am very pleased with the touching concern from the Right for our NATO position. We must assume that we are genuinely concerned – we are pleased about that. We can rest assured that we are still in our party against NATO membership and will continue to work towards this in the Stortinget. I just want to briefly point out another fact, that the representative Christiansen is working to get Norway into the EU, and the Right is sitting in a government that has put the EU case on hold. I have a specific question. Today, it has become known that Norway lent laser lighting equipment to the United States that was used in the Iraq war. This is unknown to Stortinget and is the full responsibility of the Government, in accordance with applicable export legislation. The case has remained unknown to the Norwegian Storing and Norwegian Public – it became known today. I would like to ask the representative Christiansen whether this shows some issues that suggest a fundamental debate on which export rules should apply to our allies, and whether this is a matter where the Government should exercise a different discretion.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-26.ana.ud2160e687	Our care must be given mainly to Norwegian foreign and security policy, and not to such an extent to EN. But we note that it is equally unclear what a cooperation project on the left will have of foreign and security policy profile, all the time SV maintains its NATO resistance. With regard to the EU case, the representative knows very well that there is no majority in this Chamber to send an application for EU membership, and that the Right has its clear programme formulations in place. With regard to the last question, which concerns the statements made in the media today on Norwegian arms sales to NATO allies, I would just like to refer to the answers that the Minister of Foreign Affairs has given to the same representative earlier in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-26.ana.ud2160e696	No more words have been asked for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-26.ana.ud2160e699	The representative of Nybakk intends to go back to what is the theme of this debate, namely cooperation in the NATO Alliance in 2003. Although 2003 is concerned, it is probably difficult not to pull the lines a little further and look at what has happened in NATO in 2004. I dare say that the dates 1 April and 1 May 2004 marked the definitive end of the Cold War. Europe was reassembled to a continent when NATO got seven new countries into the alliance, and when the EU was expanded by ten new Member States. Several of the countries that are now members of both the EU and NATO were not even independent states 15 years ago. We forget quickly in our time! Both the EU and NATO are now guarantors of continued democratisation of former Eastern Europe. I believe that it includes both well-being, human rights and rule of the people – prerequisites for peace and stability throughout the region. NATO's contribution as a stabilisation factor in Europe cannot be underestimated. Partnership for the Peace Project following the fall of the Berlin Wall, and the fall of the Warsaw Pact, contributed to the necessary preparations for the enlargement of membership, which we all know. I think it is also right to say that the new countries are entering NATO not only to participate in a defence and security community but to ensure that they are part of Europe, part of the democratic world. However, in order to have political authority, a defence alliance must have military capabilities and be relevant to defence policy challenges. The Prague Capabilities Commitment, which the Committee describes in depth – the PCC decision at the NATO Summit in November 2002 – was a milestone in this way. The division of labour between the European NATO countries through large acquisitions of defence equipment also allows the technology gap between Europe and the United States to be slightly smaller than that – not that we can ever achieve equality, but the European NATO countries will at least be better equipped. As part of the Prague Capabilities Commitment, there is an increased interaction between neighbouring countries in the alliance, perhaps also with countries outside the alliance, and cooperation in some areas of defence strengthens the Praha decision. Developments in this area include: Norway cooperates with Denmark and the Netherlands in the field of air defence. It is now so close that pilots train, have training and participate in exercises together. As far as North Sea cooperation is concerned, I believe that there is indeed a very important cooperation within the alliance. It is important because Norway has a long and vulnerable coast, and because maritime defence is an important part of our defence. It is also important that Norway be active to ensure that the EU’s defence and security policy is also anchored in NATO. I think what is now happening in Europe may contribute to new cooperation and relations across the Atlantic. In 2003, NATO's new Joint Warfare Centre opened at Jåttå near Stavanger. This piece of NATO's new command structure came into place after a long diplomatic process, where many actors did a very good job. In the area of social security and civil-military cooperation, NATO also has a solid preparedness, which is important for Norway with the oil and gas installations we have in the North Sea. The Defence Committee currently has a major communication on civil-military cooperation, where this will also be affected. I am pleased that an overall committee believes that economic and military engagement in Afghanistan must be a priority task. It is important that participation in international operations is an integral part of our foreign policy. We must also ensure and pursue such policies, where international operations must always be seen in conjunction with our other foreign policy. Now that we have made Afghanistan a cooperation country for Norwegian aid and are also contributing strongly to humanitarian aid and stabilisation forces, this is a model that we should also be able to use in the next possible crossroads, for example. in Sudan. I am pleased that the majority of the Committee on Foreign Affairs has reiterated that the Defence Committee stressed in its examination of the long-term defence plan that our participation in international operations must be founded on international law and based on legality and legitimacy, and that Norway should not participate in preventative warfare or pre-emptive war that does not have a clear foundation in international law. This was a broad majority in favour of June, and of course it is the same majority – all except the Advancement Party – that repeats this in the position that is here today. Finally, it is essential for Norway that NATO is involved in the nuclear disarmament and proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. There I would like to remind you that the accumulation of nuclear waste in the Kola Peninsula is still a major challenge for Norway, and must also be a matter for the whole alliance. Norway has included it in the G8 Global Partnership initiative, and we are also trying to make it a case in the EU’s Northern Dimension. But the alliance must also have an eye on what is happening in North-West Russia, when NATO is working against the proliferation of nuclear weapons and other weapons of mass destruction. I would like, among other things: recalling that what is on the other side of the Russian border is probably the most easily made of so-called dirty bombs in the world.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-26.ana.ud2160e725	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-26.ana.ud2160e728	As the rapporteur pointed out in his statement, the opinion of the Committee on Foreign Affairs is that there is a broad consensus, where the Workers' Party is also a participant in the consensus, and then there is a branded one from SV. And if you read the SV opinion, you will see that the comments of the majority of the Committee and the SV's comments are completely incompatible, at all points incompatible. This is particularly evident by the fact that the relevance of NATO to Norwegian security is far from evident. I assume that this is even an understatement. I realized that the Workers' Party has always meant the opposite: that that relevance is completely obvious. Now you're snoring together a government alternative on the left-hand side. So far, it has not been so far as to have begun to discuss politics. In return, there is intense discussion about the allocation of ministerial posts. Therefore, I would like to ask the chairperson of the Defence Committee whether she sees SV as the current candidate for the foreign minister's or defence minister's job in a new government.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-26.ana.ud2160e735	The right also has a long experience in government. As far as I know, right now sits in a government that has a suicide paragraph in the case of Norwegian EU membership, because they are in government with parties that have a different view of the European Union than that of the Right. I am sure that it is entirely possible for the Workers' Party to sit in government with SV. I think this is going to be an excellent government in every way, and I expect that we will continue the foreign policy and the security policy that a broad majority in this Chamber stands for.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-26.ana.ud2160e741	Yesterday, no to the Atomic Arms' 25th anniversary. We also know that for many years, trade unions have worked against nuclear weapons in many ways. In that we are discussing NATO today: it is insofar both on paper and in practice a contradiction between our NATO membership and our membership in the Non-Proliferation Agreement. This also applies, of course, to the other NATO countries. I want to ask the leader of the Defence Committee how Norway can work to change its nuclear policy – slowly but surely – to weaken the role of nuclear weapons in security policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-26.ana.ud2160e746	I believe that the main contribution that Norway can make in relation to nuclear disarmament is to work actively within the non-proliferation regime. At the moment, I am very concerned that Norway is now voting in favour of the resolution presented by the so-called New Agenda Coalition countries in the 1st Committee of the United Nations General Assembly, which also points to the Spring Conference of Supervisors, where the 13 steps from the previous Conference of Supervisors should be continued. I believe that the NATO countries' contribution to nuclear disarmament must also go along that route and lie within the non-proliferation regime and the supervisory conferences and in the normal disarmament sites, i.e. where disarmament is being negotiated. I also think that must be our approach within NATO.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-26.ana.ud2160e751	Since Marit Nybakk was not able to answer my question within the speaking time, I would like to give her a new opportunity to answer the question, and at the same time point out that her comparison is stalling quite seriously. The current government has a so-called suicide clause, which is correct, which states that if the issue of Norwegian EU membership were to be on the agenda during the period, the parties are free to dissolve the government cooperation without being allowed to defame each other. It's something quite different than the situation with NATO, because Norway is actually a member of NATO. I assume that Marit Nybakk with the parallel didn't mean to say that in the next four-year period, a possible majority government on the left-hand side would have a suicide paragraph that says that if during the four-year period you have to take a stand on issues relating to the administration of Norwegian NATO membership, you have to separate. Then you would have to separate already the day after the formation of the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-26.ana.ud2160e759	My answer is that the Workers' Party is committed to the security policy that we have been pursuing throughout the post-war period, and we will continue to maintain our position that Norway will of course be a member of NATO. NATO is our main security policy instrument. We are, as you know, a country on the outside of the European Union. We do not currently have that influence over defence and security policy on our own continent that we should have. The more important it becomes a cooperation in the NATO alliance, because that's the leg we have to stand on. That's also where the Workers' Party stands in terms of our relationship to NATO.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-26.ana.ud2160e764	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-26.ana.ud2160e767	Like the rapporteur, I would also like to stress the broad support given to NATO. With the exception of SV, there is agreement on the main elements of our NATO policy. I just want to use this post to comment on a couple of points where the Progress Party has seen it as necessary not to join the rest of the majority. We have also commented here on our position in relation to Norwegian participation in international operations. The majority have written that it must be ‘an anchor of international law’, and as far as I understand it, this is also a formulation used by the Defence Committee. Now it has not always been the case in international operations, even where Norway has chosen to participate, that it has been the responsibility of the Security Council to which the rapporteur referred. The actions against Serbia to save the Albanian population in Kosovo did not have such legitimacy, it was not the necessary decision in the Security Council. Nevertheless, Norway considered it important to participate. We fully agree with that. Such an opportunity we won't be depriving ourselves of for the future. Should there be a situation – a thoughtful example – e.g.: in Sudan where there would be a need to save the civilian population with a military operation, we will not rule out in advance that we will be positive about it, even though one of the permanent members of the Security Council will not join such an operation. We want a freedom of action to assess such actions in the future as well. But, of course, there is no desire on our part to participate in operations that are not based on international law – it should be pursued in any context. But when the majority uses the phrase'must be anchored in international law', we find it cutting off opportunities in the future, which we do not want to participate in. The second is the relationship between the EU and NATO. And that is quite right: we have not applauded the EU's ambitions in the field of foreign and defence policy, but thought that this could conflict with and conflict with NATO's responsibilities, and that we should strengthen NATO and not contribute to the EU's doubling NATO in some areas, as we see it. But we recognise that the European Union has come here beyond what we wanted, and we have to deal with it. Of course, we want to take care of Norway’s interests first and foremost in this context. If this means that we must seek closer cooperation with the European Union in this area through different channels, we must, of course, also take the consequences. We have a pragmatic approach to this, but we are ideally seeing that it is through NATO that our security can best be ensured, and that a twist towards the European Union is not what we should actively work for.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-26.ana.ud2160e779	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-26.ana.ud2160e782	The Progress Party expresses scepticism for the European cooperation in foreign and security policy in this position – it has basically become a repetition. I agree that one should avoid duplicating the structures of the EU and NATO. But now it is increasingly evident that the EU is taking over part of NATO’s previous tasks, including: in Bosnia, with NATO and, to some extent, with the support of the United States, and how are we going to act? The government's position is that we should seek as close cooperation as possible with the EU in foreign and security policy, in the light of the close links between Norwegian security and European security. But in the light of what the representative now said in his statement: Has the Progress Party changed its view on Norwegian participation in the EU-led operation in Bosnia-Herzegovina?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-26.ana.ud2160e787	For the operation in Bosnia-Herzegovina: the issue is, of course, a report on NATO’s activity in 2003. Nevertheless, the majority of the Committee chose to say something about what we should be doing in the future in relation to a future EU operation in Bosnia-Herzegovina. We're not cutting ourselves off here either. We decide on the different operations when those questions arise. We don't think a report on NATO's activity in 2003 is a natural place to signal which foreign operations we want to participate in. So once again, we want to deal actively with this, and have nothing in principle against participating in such EU operations if we think it makes sense.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-26.ana.ud2160e792	People ask themselves, "Nato, wasn't it a defence alliance, an alliance to take care of collective security, even on their own territory?" We see that the marine defense was on land in the fall, the Coast Guard does not have boarding boats, etc., etc. Does the entire Progress Party see any dilemma in relation to the investments being made in NATO, which we in SV don't think is good enough, precisely because they don't meet the threat image we have? And if, in addition, those investments go beyond and are a threat to the work we have to do on our own territory in relation to the environment, in terms of security, in relation to, as many people have mentioned in this room, Russian activity in the oil field, does the Progress Party see that there is a problem when we are not able to deal with the problems at the same time?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-26.ana.ud2160e797	There are some questions you are more satisfied with getting than others, and this was a very pleasant question. It is not difficult to get to the Advance Party and ask for greater funding for the Defence, on the contrary. As far as foreign operations are concerned, we have long believed that these should be financed outside the normal framework of the defence budget, so that we do not risk the situation to which the representative Jacobsen just referred, where parts of the Norwegian defence stand standing idle and without the necessary framework. So yes, we see dilemmas with today's financing system. Together with SV, we would like to help increase the Defence Framework.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-26.ana.ud2160e803	First, I just want to say that we take care of our national interests in defence policy, and that we haven't had fewer soldiers or forces out there than we have just in the harvest. But I would like to ask the representative, Mr Höglund, in the light of something else he said, about the defence budget: is it not true that, whether it has been the Progress Party or the Workers' Party that the Government has made budgetary settlements over the last three years, the defence budget has remained roughly as it has been, or perhaps a little has been withdrawn from the sale of defence property? In other words, has there not been any increase in the defence budget in the budgetary agreement between the Government and the Progress Party? And then I would like to ask, at what point did the Progress Party propose specifically to grant money for foreign operations outside the defence budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-26.ana.ud2160e808	It is true that we need to go to our alternative state budgets to find our principal position on the defence budget framework. When we have chosen to support the Government in the budget, it has been a subsidiary vote, and we admit that in the negotiations we have had with the Government, we have not won out in the defence area. We're going to be completely open and honest about that, there's a lot of blows you have to realize that you're losing. We have repeatedly raised the issue of foreign operations in the forum where this is usually addressed, namely the enlarged Foreign Affairs Committee. It's been repeating. I would also like to come back with more documentation to the representative Nybakk, without having it with me for this line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-26.ana.ud2160e813	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-26.ana.ud2160e816	The threat picture has changed since the cold war, and today few think that the danger of a military attack on Norway is a great threat. On the other hand, geostrategic location, international alliances and significant national resources make us vulnerable to terrorist attacks and accidents. We need more preparedness here. In international conflicts after the Cold War, civil wars and civil war-like conditions dominate. Most of these occur without any particular attention, even if it affects thousands of people. At the same time, it has become apparent that the rich part of the world is very vulnerable to terrorist attacks. In Iraq, in particular, terrorist acts, hostages and executions of Western people are actively used as political press. But also on own territory, terrorism can hit, as we've seen in both the United States, Spain and Russia. These are threats that didn't fight with a conventional defense. It's not about tanks that have to work against these threats. Terrorism, and in the extension of it, the threat of spreading weapons of mass destruction must be fought against in other and more fields. Those who plan to perform this type of action need to be tracked and made responsible. But this alone is not enough. In addition, we need to stimulate non-optional political participation that provides prospects for results, such as: in the Middle East. We need to work towards a fairer and better allocation of resources internationally, so that people in the poor part of the world can take part in the development of wealth and see that they have allies in the West as well. By preventing on the one hand and effectively knocking down terrorist organisations on the other, while at the same time recognising responsibility for disarmament and disarmament on the United Nations, we can take a step further in the fight against terrorism. NATO is not a particularly powerful tool in relation to the terrorist threats I have listed. The fight against terrorism is what NATO is supposed to be working together to try to make the organisation relevant to today’s challenges. The problem is just that there's a big difference of opinion across the Atlantic about what works against terror, and what tool should be used. Where the United States finds military answers, Europe finds non-military instruments as the best solution. For SV, it is clear that the most serious threats to international peace and security must be solved by political, diplomatic and economic means. Terrorism must fight with many means, and it is in the first row a police task. The fight against terror was to be and could be what kept NATO in bulk, but when one is so disunity in what kind of tool one should be able to use, it becomes division instead. And when one from several countries on the European side believes that the US’s hard line of pre-emptive attacks and excessive use of military instruments creates more terrorists, it does not unite terrorism — the biggest challenge — NATO. Therefore, it is gratifying that Norway broke with one of its foreign policy orientations, the Atlantic, when a consistent support for the UN and its weapons inspectors and not the US line of war ahead of the war against Iraq. That we later spent about 70 million. kr from the aid budget of Norwegian soldiers, may stand trial. Several have in the last few days asked what SV means about NATO. There is no doubt that the bulk group is stuck on the work programme and thus resists NATO, and as a primary point of view, Norway should report itself. Nevertheless, we in SV acknowledge that at this point there is no plurality for this vision, neither in the Storing nor out in the people. Breaking out of this alliance requires a solid popular anchoring. This is precisely why SV wants to contribute to the public debate on security and alliance policy. A lively debate on these questions increases our chances of hearing our primary position here. We're sure that most people are with us when it applies, for example. NATO's first use of nuclear weapons and missile defence plans. Now it is enough to take care to change the security policy within NATO to something better. A clear no from Norway to NATO's first use of nuclear weapons would win a lot of excitement out there among people, and I'll also believe among several parties here in the hall. The initiative for a Greater Middle East policy at the NATO Summit in Istanbul did not go so well, but it is still for Norway and for a Norwegian government to take the initiative to profile itself on a matter of a nuclear-free Middle East. Saga's lying there. It's just to start working with her. There is also a process in NATO on missile defence for Europe – the clock is not working, President.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-26.ana.ud2160e837	No, speaking time is not limited.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-26.ana.ud2160e840	No, it's not. The President is right! There is also a process in NATO on missile defence for Europe. Rocket shields in Europe can be a new reality, with upgrading as a result. Or is Europe, like the United States, seeking to gain the freedom to do anything with conventional weapons, without fear of retaliation with nuclear weapons? In the peoples of Europe, there is great opposition to the occupation that is taking place in Iraq, and many think that their forces should be drawn out. I see that UN resolutions have subsequently approved this, but there is something undemocratic about putting up a race where a demand for forgiveness in retrospect rather than asking for prior authorisation in international politics. Now there is also considerable disagreement in NATO about what should be the role of NATO in Iraq. In particular, the lack of popular support for the occupation provides a good opportunity for various terrorist groups to engage in effective terrorist operations, such as terrorist activities. guessing, as I called it instead. The danger is also great because that part of the opposition in Iraq – we have to assume that there are also sensible people in Iraq who can constitute an opposition – who must be further ahead in order to get to a democratic Iraq, be voted as terrorists. So we could risk that they're too much on these terrorist lists as well. Get into the situation that everyone who speaks against the occupying party, becomes almost stamped as terrorists, prays the crazy of the guard. After all, we must have some democratic powers to communicate with. Mr Jørgen Løvland, Minister for Foreign Affairs, said that: 'The task must be to keep us out of participation in the combinations and alliances that can draw us into war adventures with some of the European warrior states'. I don't think we should draw it too far here today, but it shows that Norway a hundred years ago was an isolationist state, very uncertain about which one should go foreign policy, etc. We were very careful. We know that it took about half a century before it changed and we joined NATO. But it might still be something to learn from those words from 1905, if we look at the current situation, where there is a split across the Atlantic about what kind of tool should be used. Therefore, it is good that all parties, with the exception of the Progress Party, clearly state in the comments that Norwegian participation in international operations must be based on legality and legitimacy. The United Nations Charter rules, and pre-purchase attacks are out of date. We have to be able to take it with us as a good sign that the world is going to go wrong. Despite what we see in practice, at least we're trying to keep the standard high on paper. NATO is based on collective security. One must be able to say that Article 51 of the UN Charter was part of the basis for what was formed in the late 1940s. There is nothing in the way that Norway in practice grew up under the United Nations. In its opinion, the UN should be given more responsibility in operations, although the UN should ask regional or other actors to carry them out. Nevertheless, one in the long run must strengthen the UN's ability to do more in this area. We were asked if we could borrow a Hercules plane to the UN earlier in the fall. We couldn't. We had 1,400-1,500 men with the Blue Beret, but in the area by area, we see that the government says that a bet at the UN, but when a test in practice, one doesn't. NATO’s rapid reaction forces and other out of area tasks may go beyond Norway’s ability to provide forces to consult UN peacekeeping operations, not least for economic reasons. The same is true on our own territory, where the question is whether we should continue to have a balanced national defence, or whether we should develop military niche capacities to be available to NATO and the United States. I mentioned in a line earlier that the Maritime Defense actually went into postage earlier in the fall. Coast Guard wear and tear with simple boarding boats. We're not quite able to take the simplest of what we're set to do, to take care of a quarter of Europe's area, even though it's also sea, Europe's food barrel, with Russian activity, which is huge. Hillary Clinton, John McCane, everyone's there, just not the Norwegian Marine Defense, because they're in charge. Of course, then people ask themselves, do you think this is what they're doing, and do we invest properly? Turkey requested Article 4 talks when the United States threatened Turkey's neighbor Iraq with attack. So one ally makes another ally feel like he's a threat. Just because one practices pre-purchase attacks and has a relaxed relationship with international law, international law and UN decisions, this becomes a bit difficult, because it is one of our main allies who have seen the world in such a situation. Pressing this button will promote the use of articles. It wasn't supposed to be an S.B.S. that was supposed to be defending NATO's articles, but I still find reason to do that, because we're also a flanking country. When such situations are pushed forward, Norway should tell us that there are things that we at least see for ourselves should not be done. That's what makes the 1905 words the same today. Norway must reserve and work against warring states that do not want the way we want. The paradoxical situation with Turkey should form the basis for a debate on the implications that the US security strategy can have for the alliance. In any case, Norway should be critical when one is trying to draw NATO into conflicts, as in Iraq. So finally some words about non-proliferation. I said in a line earlier that the Non-Proliferation Agreement conflicts with what we're into. Perhaps the most important work we're facing is to get something done with weapons of mass destruction. Now this has been very much up with regard to the Middle East. It has been central to the Iraq conflict. We also have to be able to achieve results in areas that apply to ourselves. We can't just ask other countries to try one-sidedly to rust down. We have to lead by example and show that it is the way to go. There may also be more power behind the entirely reasonable demands of the IAEA in relation to Iran, compared to those of the other countries that have not signed the Non-Proliferation Agreement. This is an important work. I have no reason to believe that the government does not do enough to the countries that we should get into the flock. But my question is, do we do enough to the countries with which we have the most contact? That's where I think we could have done even more.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-26.ana.ud2160e867	Perhaps the President should draw attention to the fact that the maximum time is 30 minutes. But it went okay. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-26.ana.ud2160e872	I have a great deal of understanding that the representative was apprehensive, given that it may seem that time is still when SV talks about security policy – I have a great deal of understanding for that. Now the representative confirmed, without any reservations of any kind, that the SV work programme for this period is permanent in the case of NATO. I assume the representative has read the work programme. That work programme states: ‘SV will make the OSCE Europe’s main safety body. To get to that, NATO needs to be built down. In order to progress in this direction, some countries need to go ahead and stand out of block thinking.’ Then there are seven bullets -- or maybe it's better to call it bombing points right in this context -- and the seventh and last, which is the highlight, says: ‘SV will during the period’ — i.e. 2001-2004 — ‘proposal for a Norwegian exit from NATO’. When the work programme is established, my question is: When can we expect the proposal to come? You only have the time until June.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-26.ana.ud2160e889	It is also not a bomb that a line should be within 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-26.ana.ud2160e892	I have said earlier in the debate that the SV Group is also in charge of SV's work programme. But we haven't found it useful to put suggestions on this in the hall, precisely because we recognize that here in the hall there isn't a large majority for that. We've also recognized that out in the people there's not much plurality for this. That's why, as I did in my post, I have listed several challenges that we see as very important, and that we know we can get multiples for here in the hall, and also in a possible new government – the nuclear strategy, etc. – and, not least, for which we may have very much support in the Norwegian people. We know that 90-95 pst. of the Norwegian people are against nuclear weapons. There will be a lot of work going on here. But finally, there's no doubt that SV is against NATO.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-26.ana.ud2160e899	First, I want to express my deep respect for SV's NATO position, SV's traditional foreign policy. It was partly based on SV, and it has a consistent – in part at least – run up through history. They will have respect for and praise for it, even though the Christian People's Party and I are disunity in parts of it. But what's amazing here is that the representative Jacobsen follows up what the representative Halvorsen said: A set of no demonstration proposals. The programme states that during the period a proposal will be made. Is the rest of the program to understand the same way? The Christian People's Party has some parallels, and if we've told people that we do that, we do that, whether we think we have multiples or not. This must be populism. And one thing at the end: does the representative Jacobsen believe that maritime defence would be in a better situation with $4.5 billion less in the budget, as SV has suggested?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-26.ana.ud2160e909	Finally, I said that this is a challenge for the Progress Party: if one is able to balance the investments that one makes in out of area operations, in relation to the responsibility we have for a national defence home. That was my question to the Progress Party. Because I'm not so sure if it's so profitable to have a submarine lying in the Mediterranean as one doesn't quite know what to do there, while we don't take care of the challenges in the North. So to this with NATO proposals, and whether the work programme is going to be interpreted as if we're going to put it into practice. It's supposed to be interpreted as. But as I also said to the representative, we have assessed this so that during this period we have not submitted it as a proposal – and we have not done so before either – precisely because we have not believed that we would get more for it. I myself am a NATO opponent, the group is also on the NATO position. But we have a number of other good proposals that we can promote and for which we can actually get multiples, so we have considered them as a better way.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-26.ana.ud2160e916	There's a phenomenon called creative bookkeeping, and I think SV's relationship to its own program is starting to remind you more and more about it. I assume that when the SV's national meeting adopted the programme for the current growing-up period, they knew very well that there is no majority in this room for the Norwegian exit from NATO. There is nothing that has changed since 2001 and until 2004 in this way. I assume that the country meeting was at full consciousness when it instructed the big group – because that is what the programme actually says – to propose the Norwegian announcement of NATO during the current growing-up period. Is SV a party where the national meeting is really completely irrelevant? And are the promises you've given to the voters, also completely irrelevant? If the Group of the European People's Party considers that it is not appropriate to follow the party's programme, can you not follow the party's programme?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-26.ana.ud2160e925	It is a little strange to hear that the representative, who is a member of the Right, wonders that SV signals that we can think of adding our NATO resistance, so that it does not come as an obstacle to any new government. When I hear this from the representative Wage from the Right, who is part of a government based not only on suicide, but on a section on suicide, I wonder: does he believe that we in the UK don't know what we're doing when he's asking the whole question? I understand that it is going to be difficult to demand that the Center Party, for example, should go away from its NATO position, and if we were to stand at our primary position, it would prevent government cooperation. Of course it would. It is interesting that your salary reads a lot in your work programme from the SV National Meeting. There's a lot to look at when it comes to how we're going to operate our policy, so I'm going to recommend it to pay for further reading.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-26.ana.ud2160e935	The thing is, the representative Jacobsen said earlier here that SV's program is solid. So he says immediately afterwards that it's not fixed, it wasn't meant to be this way anyway. We'll just have to find out. Another no-to-nato party, RV, at Torstein Dale, recently said that we now have one thing to do about the war in Iraq, and that is to support the resistance struggle in Iraq – that is, the fight against the occupation. Does SV agree with this? If SV disagrees – and we also know from before that SV does not want any stabilisation force in Iraq – I would like to ask: What is the SV's policy? What is the SV's strategy for Iraq, and how can it be incorporated into the idea of a new government? It would be interesting to hear Bjorn Jacobsen's philosophy around this.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-26.ana.ud2160e942	First to NATO. We in SV don't see it as possible to report Norway out of the alliance overnight. Such an action would require broad support of the people. That's why what I'm saying is that we don't want to rush forward an announcement proposal. At the same time, I can reassure the representative Rise that our NATO position is firm. But as I said, if one is going to cooperate, one is going to negotiate with another, I assume that no one knows more about it than the Christian People's Party. I have a long list of sore points on it, but I don't intend to frame it up. So Lars Rise asked about what is SV's answer when it concerns Iraq. I think maybe the most important thing we have to do in Iraq is get the real opposition. What is difficult today in Iraq is to separate who are pure terrorists, and who is there just to keep things that are not in place to build Iraq. Maybe that's the most important task we have in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-26.ana.ud2160e949	One can be a little surprised at the Right’s eagerness in a debate on the annual report for NATO. The central party disagrees with the SV's view of NATO membership. But there is nothing new that there are disagreements between parties that both cooperate and not cooperate with each other. My question to the representative Jacobsen is based on what the rapporteur said in his reply, which I shall quote. In his reply on the Right's view of EU membership, the rapporteur said the following: the right notes that there is no majority for our EU view in this Chamber, and that we therefore have our programme item in place. What is the difference between what the Right says about its programme entry on EU membership and the SV's programme entry on NATO?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-26.ana.ud2160e958	Can I answer that?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-26.ana.ud2160e965	That's when Bjørn Jacobsen has to answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-26.ana.ud2160e968	Now I have probably not read Right's program in much the same way as the representative Wohnning has read SV's program – but he gets it. There's really no difference between the two things. Actually, there's no difference there.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-26.ana.ud2160e973	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-26.ana.ud2160e976	It might be tempting to keep going where we were, in relation to the line change. The difference I'm observing is that it says that during the period one will make proposals for discharge. As far as I am concerned, it does not appear in the Right-wing Programme that one will make proposals for membership during the period. I think it's pretty serious for a party if you say to the voters that you want to do a thing in the Storting over a period of time, and then you don't do it. What I think is the most difficult point for SV here today is in a way that one does not. Then I can confirm what the representative Jacobsen said, that the government must agree on a platform, one must agree on a policy, and that means one must make a reservation in some areas. It is not in any way a surprise that it must be done in future government cooperation. But what's surprising is that when we start having a debate on this, it turns out that SV hasn't done anything to fulfill its program, and has trouble explaining why, etc. I think the debate has been interesting, and it's interesting to see how the three will handle that part. But it's obvious that there are several of us who have experience that in some respects one actually has to admit in a government statement that one has to put some things away. I would like to join in what the case spokesman said in his statement in relation to the message we are debating, and therefore do not come into many details there. But I also want to refer to the post that the representative Nybakk had, which took on a very exciting dimension, the expansion that happened during the year. It is quite amazing, what has happened, also the process that has been before the expansion, because NATO is very undervalued as a democratic project. One is very busy discussing the military capacity and the military sides, but the democratic project that lies in NATO in relation to such extensions is interesting to follow closely. Here you will also see a further process. On the one hand, it's sad that Serbia hasn't been part of the Party for Peace. That's what the United States has done. One has not managed to get NATO to go in for it. For Serbia, really should be dragged into this family. It's quite unfortunate that it has actually given national lists in Serbia greater possibilities than they would have had had if the country had entered the Partnership for Peace. This weekend there is a presidential election in Ukraine. Ukraine is one of Europe's largest countries, with 50 million. citizens, and in what direction, are important for the development of Europe as a whole. Should it be russified again, or should it be a Western, a democratic path? The organisation that actually cooperates most closely with Ukraine for the change of structures, for the change of an old-fashioned fixed management system and military system, etc., is NATO. So NATO hasn't just stopped there. They're on the extension. They're actually in the middle of important projects. It's an important bit when you first discuss this. There is one area in which NATO has not succeeded well enough, the EU has not succeeded well enough, and that relates to the relationship with Russia. One has built up new structures, but a struggle to find a solution to the problem of openness in collaboration. Of course, there may be some aspects of developments in Russia that may be worrying about. But having a very open and good dialogue and understanding with Russia in the further development of Europe and internationally is absolutely essential. It's nice, what's in the setting about no to pre-emption attacks that don't have a clear anchoring in international law. It is a very important common position that has been entered in the setting. We say we're sorry that the Progress Party isn't in it, but it's very wide. I think there's reason to fight for it to be an international position. All small nations benefit from taking the position that Norway has taken right there. Then we have a huge challenge, and it's weapons of mass destruction. More have been in this today. Obviously, there are many types of threats. One is the development of new countries. There are unharmed weapons – they have not been dealt with, not taken out of function – and are now in stock. They are a terrible risk of further spreading. It's not without reason that part of us here on the Storting have supported the Nunn-Luger program in connection with the Nobel Peace Prize, given that they have made a great effort to update it with the ultimate unharmed these arsenals. Therefore, the fight against nuclear weapons – to use the big headline – is an important battle. That fight is important to lead on many fronts, and it is something that Norwegian politicians also have to engage in. I totally agree with the representative Jacobsen that there is one thing that we should address. However, it should be seen in the context of a national and international security based on general agreements, international agreements and defence cooperation, as well as a job for reduction, proper supervision and a non-proliferation agreement, and getting it back on its feet.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-26.ana.ud2160e999	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-26.ana.ud2160e1002	NATO has built its security strategy on the availability of nuclear weapons in given situations. At the same time, we now see that non-proliferation and disarmament work is in considerable difficulties, that different countries that do not have nuclear weapons are working tirelessly to acquire nuclear weapons, and that the United States, our leading ally, is actively developing new types of nuclear weapons. What does the representative Lilletun think that Norway is part of an alliance based on a nuclear weapons strategy? And what does the representative Lilletun Government think should do to remedy this situation, reduce that significance?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-26.ana.ud2160e1007	The problem of the representative, Bjørklund, is a clearly ethical dilemma. Nevertheless, there is reason to say that in NATO's history deterrence has probably been a necessary part of NATO, although it is an ethical dilemma. Today we're in a situation where there's only one superpower back. In such a situation, there is even greater reason to put your back on the fact that your work is really going forward in relation to non-proliferation, destruction and creating a different security image. There's reason to criticize the United States for not doing enough. But they've given me $1 billion a year. There are more than a few European nuclear powers that have given to the work of destroying old nuclear weapons.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-26.ana.ud2160e1014	The representative Lilletun points out the obvious ethical dilemma of NATO’s nuclear strategy and Norway’s relationship with it and the importance of being able to have deterrence as an instrument in the past. He went on to say that we're really in a different situation now. Norway is a member of NATO. Can Norway take the initiative in this matter, and, where appropriate, what, so that NATO can also contribute to strengthening the international non-proliferation and disarmament work?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-26.ana.ud2160e1019	Norway should constantly work to reduce the nuclear threat. Norway has a tradition of that, and Norway should continue that tradition. I still share with the representative Nybakk's view from earlier today, that it is not NATO that is the main venue, but the international forums where this is the main theme. This is true of the United Nations, and it is true of the other international bodies dealing with that kind of question. I mean, the Norwegian government has to be active on all of these fronts. Nor do I ignore the fact that it is necessary in a new NATO to discuss the nuclear issue and the strategy that is there today, but there must be a balanced development in relation to an overall assessment of the situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-26.ana.ud2160e1026	I share the views of the representative Lilletun on where and how we are going to operate with nuclear disarmament and achieve the goal of complete elimination of nuclear weapons. I have a question for the representative. In the first committee of the United Nations, a proposal from a group of countries called the New Agenda Coalition has been presented for the last four to five years, and this year Sweden is the main country for the NAC countries. These are resolutions that point to the Conference of Supervisors now and that also pointed to the previous Conference of Supervisors for the Destruction of Nuclear Weapons and, in particular, to ensure the non-proliferation regime. Under the Stoltenberg Government, Norway voted in favour of the resolution then presented. Does the representative Lilletun think that Norway should vote in favour of the NAC resolution when it comes up in the first committee of the UN General Assembly in a few days' time?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-26.ana.ud2160e1035	It is right that it has managed such an initiative, and it has been an important initiative. I said in one of my previous replies that it was important that it was balanced, and that there was a health assessment within those initiatives. The reason why there was a vote in favour under the government of Stoltenberg, and that there was a different vote last year from Norway, was that that balance was not maintained in the last year's proposal. I know that it has been working intensively both from Norway and from other nations in view of the fact that this year's proposal will be a balanced proposal, and I hope that Norway will vote for that resolution this year.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-26.ana.ud2160e1045	No more words have been asked for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-26.ana.ud2160e1048	In order first to prevent any unnecessary lines I should be allowed to stress that the undersigned and the Centre are hot trailers of NATO membership. For this reason, the Central Party also shares the view of the majority in relation to the annual report for NATO in 2003. However, there are a couple of points in the configuration that the Central Party finds reasonable grounds for questioning about subjects and areas that we think should have been discussed carefully. One question concerns resource use related to the so-called NATO reaction force and the need for and the need for a broader debate on what the notification of Norwegian contributions to this force could actually mean. In the budget for next year, we see that in relation to the 900 million. kr, which was intended to be used for international operations in 2003, shows that the accounts for 2003 have been used approximately. DKr 1.4 billion. For 2004, it is intended to be used approximately. 700 million. kr for international operations, and it will be interesting to see what the 2004 accounts will show. This means that, in the opinion of the Centre Party, there could be a need here for a broader debate on resource use related to international operations in general, and also in relation to what our input into NATO's reaction force can mean in particular. The centre party is also concerned that the limited resources we have, after all, in defence policy should be able to be used deliberately, and the majority say something very important in a comment here that everyone, except SV, is aware of, namely that one considers it important to ensure that: ‘NATO has capacities that can be used in the North since Norway is in a very special security policy situation related to energy and as a peripheral country to Russia’. It's a statement the Center Party very much agrees with. However, we believe that in order to achieve a greater focus and attention on the north and the region of which we are sailing, there is also a need for a greater focus from Norway on national presence and sovereignty in these areas. We must take our own responsibility for the stability of our own region, and it must also have some consequences related to the total use of resources in defence. It was a topic related to the long-term defence plan that had been discussed, and we in the Central Party believe that to the extent that Norway is to participate in international operations, we should be more involved where we are particularly good, as with, for example, Norway. sanitary departments, engineering troops, MTBs or miners, instead of being part of regular infantry, fighter aircraft or frigate arrangements. This is the background of the Central Party special comment in the setting. Otherwise, I must be allowed to say that I think this has become a rather remarkable debate. In particular, one case rapporteur uses almost a third of his contribution to talk about the views of another party on NATO in a debate on the annual report for NATO in 2003. I also have to say that I think that right-hand lines here are quite special. Now, in the rest of the debate, we'll probably get a number of clarifications and formulations about this, but it's clear that more parties than SV have issues that they don't get either promoted or implemented because they're in cooperation with other parties. One is about the question of reporting, the other is about the question of reporting. Right and SV are both ready to put their positions away in a cooperation. The right has already done so, and SV is now saying that they are ready to do so, and I have to say that it points to strong similarities between the two cases, especially when you look at the rapporteur's way of commenting on this question in a reply to the rapporteur himself. Furthermore, Bernt Aardal has published a book today where he points out that the Right is the best person attacker in Norwegian politics. It is possible that the Right act here today is an odd attempt at a little negative ‘campaign’ in good time before the election campaign.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-26.ana.ud2160e1070	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-26.ana.ud2160e1074	The representative of Arnstad's last comment on the attack I want to take a strong distance from. None of the representatives of the Right have personally attacked anyone. But we have allowed ourselves to point out that SV has gone to elections with a promise to their voters that during the period they will propose Norwegian withdrawal from NATO, and we are essentially asking when to fulfill this promise to their voters. What we are also concerned about, and which I believe is new in relation to the last time we discussed NATO in this room – and which this Annual Report gives a good opportunity to reflect on – is that SV's sole focus on NATO issues has been given a new political dimension by the SV, the Workers' Party and the Centre taking the aim of forming a cooperation project on the left. It must then be allowed to ask the question of what is going to become the content of Norwegian foreign and security policy, if these parties are allowed to enter government offices.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-26.ana.ud2160e1081	I just want to make it clear first that the question of assault wasn't, of course, my comment, I referred to Bernt Aardal's new book, where it's one of the things that's being drawn out. I think we would have insisted on having a more calm and understood debate that there are disagreements between the parties, including parties working together. It is not that only SV has promised their chosen things. The right has promised its voters that they will do what they can to get Norway into the EU. As far as I remember, the new leader said she was going to repeat the arguments for getting Norway into the EU until she got sick. I expect that it was serious for her to work for it even in the current period. But the right has chosen to put it away because they're actually in government with two no-parts. That means that the Right sits in a government where they can no longer work for that position. SV has said that they are ready to sit in a government without taking up their position on the announcement of NATO. I think that's fair, and I can't see that there's such a big difference between Right and SV at this point.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-26.ana.ud2160e1088	If you have problems seeing the difference on a date-marked promise to make a proposal in the Storting in a particular magnification period and a promise that a party will make a real political effort to produce a result as quickly as possible, then nothing will help, so I'll leave it. But the Center Party has written together with the Progress Party in this setting at a point that is quite perceptive. I quote the joint comment from the two parties: ‘At a time when the United States seems more prepared to go alone in international conflicts, it is necessary for European NATO partners to strive for a closer possible interaction with the United States.’ There are no new notes on the part of the Progress Party, but there are substantial new notes on the part of the Centre Party during this big period, because there has not been a single opportunity to draw a distance from the United States in foreign policy. Does this mean a change of course from the Central Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-26.ana.ud2160e1100	As I said in my post, I realized that it was going to be both the one and the other attempt at point points and interpretations and trying to make things different and show that this is completely different. But as far as I can see, it's still so that one party has promised discharge and the other has promised registration, and both parties choose not to do anything about it because they're in cooperation with parties that have a different view. It is well possible that the Right’s Work Programme does not have date stamping and it is possible that ‘fastest’ in the Right’s Work Programme means ‘more than several years’, but the work programmes for all batches are valid for almost four years. Other questions about Europe and the United States. It is clear that the Central Party sees the need for the United States and Europe to have close contact and to be close allies. We do not think it is positive that there will be a distinction between Europe and the United States, and we want it to be a close contact, preferably within NATO. We are not the supporters of the EU doubling the NATO capabilities.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-26.ana.ud2160e1107	No more words have been asked for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-26.ana.ud2160e1110	I can understand and respect that the other parties are trying to press or ask SV about their foreign and security policy when you see what is in their work programme and what they are putting into settings here in Stortinget. It is probably also part of the political game that people then ask what kind of defence and foreign policy should be pursued in a possible government between the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre Party. But it's just that the last question is settled. After all, it is not appropriate for the Workers' Party to sit in a government that creates uncertainty about our security policy and our relationship with NATO cooperation. In addition, the threat to NATO and its future relevance will not come from a small or medium-sized party in Norway. It will come from far other, heavy factors beyond the borders of Norway, which we should have discussed here in Stortinget. For example, will the United States continue to bet on NATO? Many people have asked questions after recent years of development. And the second question: will the European countries continue to invest in NATO, not just in words, but in reality? For what is emerging is that there has now been a political gap over the Atlantic, which we have seen on many occasions, as well as a technological gap which means that Americans are increasingly going alone to settle military conflicts, because the Europeans are unable to follow up, among other things. for resource reasons and that they do not have technology to follow up. There are such factors that are very important for the relevance of NATO cooperation in the future. Another question, and perhaps the most important one, is: what will be the position of NATO when the EU develops the defence and security policy dimension? This will really be very crucial for NATO's future. With regard to this development, the future position of Norway’s security policy is weakened or strengthened, not the position of the SV in Norway, because there is such a broad majority in the United Kingdom who will in any case reject it, that no government is talking about a policy in the vicinity of it, for example. is formulated in this setting. It's clear in advance. The ratio is as follows: a international agreement has been reached between NATO and the EU, which states that the EU is guaranteed access to NATO resources in the event that the EU decides to launch a military action. This means that NATO’s shared resources, which Norway is helping to build up, can be used. They are guaranteed access to these common resources of NATO, without us being involved in determining it, because we are not sitting around the European Union table. In order to achieve this, the EU is setting up its own defence policy agency in Brussels, and they are setting up their own very large planning cell at the NATO headquarters in Brussels, where we are not represented with one person. Moreover, it will certainly be so – it is already so – that the positions of the European NATO countries are now highly coordinated in the EU. So what we can imagine is that it is gradually creating a security policy reality where the European Union and NATO are joining forces to solve security policy tasks. Within NATO, the EU will play the most important role in relation to the United States. We see that a whole new security policy is being created. If this does not happen, if this relationship does not evolve in the direction that the EU and NATO take responsibility together, we will see an increasing division between Europe and the United States. We must then be able to assume that the European Union will go more alone and take responsibility more alone in the area of security policy. However, in both of these cases, Norway will fail, because we do not address the main issue, namely our relationship with the EU. That's the problem, not SV. The problem is that we have got the political situation here in Norway that all government options really do not want to deal with this new reality, because we do not want to discuss the EU issue. I therefore believe that it is politically legitimate to conduct the debate that has been conducted in relation to SV here today. Everyone would probably be tempted to do the same. But I feel that it is not the real security policy debate that is then being conducted. I would like to say that it is very important for Norway, no matter what kind of relationship we get – we should think if we were a member of the EU as well – to do everything we can to ensure NATO, among other things. because it is the only real multinational military structure left in the world. If you want the UN, for example. to conduct military operations, a multinational military structure must be in place to carry it out, since the UN does not have its own separate apparatus. The alternative is alone, as we have seen in some cases, from the only other military structure capable of doing something, namely the United States. But if you don't want to, you have to have another multinational military structure, and the only one that's alive is NATO. We need to secure NATO for security policy reasons for Norway, but we also need to secure NATO because we have such a strong link with the UN, that the UN should be able to do something in upcoming situations, and that we should be able to call upon military structures that are capable of actually doing something, as happened in the Balkans. What could you have done in the Balkans? What could the UN have done in the Balkans if you hadn't had NATO? Who could have done anything? The only option was simply the United States alone. So we're now going to have to talk straight about what's the situation. Actually, I believe that SV is talking against its own policy. You talk for a strong UN, but you're not able to tell what tools the United Nations should have when you ask the world community to intervene in some conflict. And you don't just have to refer to Iraq, because there was no UN mandate, but you can refer to the Balkans, where, after all, it was a great deal of agreement from Norway – there was a UN mandate. The reason for stabilising the situation in the Balkans was that the NATO forces arrived in Bosnia-Herzegovina and Kosovo. Since there have been many questions today about the loan of Norwegian weapons to the United States before the war in Iraq broke out, I would like to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs, since we have this debate here in Stortinget: What assessments were behind when the Government said yes to borrowing such weapons in that situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-26.ana.ud2160e1129	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-26.ana.ud2160e1132	I fully agree with the representative, Mr Jagland, that NATO is experiencing challenges from non-Norwegian no-to-nato parties. It is no surprise either that I also agree that there can be a growing division between Europe and the United States if the EU does not take greater responsibility for security policy, and that our challenge is to have strong enough cooperation with regard to the new approach to European foreign and security policy. That is why I have to take this opportunity to ask Thorbjørn Jagland questions about what the newspaper reports now refer to, namely that the Labour Party, before the election and regardless of assessing the parliamentary composition of the next period, intends to place the EU case on the shelf for the next four years. I would like to see that as a very serious and dramatic change in the Labour Party's policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-26.ana.ud2160e1139	In that case, it would be to do exactly what the right has done for four years. I cannot answer in any other way now than that this is a process in progress in the Workers' Party. We have a wide-ranging debate in our party on what to do with the EU issue in the next period. We're going to have a national meeting in May 2005, and it'll be the national meeting that decides what to do. If it becomes a majority for that and you have to have government negotiations with the other two parties, that will be a point in those negotiations. I will not negotiate on behalf of the Workers' Party, but everyone knows what I think about that matter. I also said that here in the pulpit.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-26.ana.ud2160e1146	There is no one who can be in doubt about how the heart of the representative Igland banks when it comes to the European Union. It makes a lot of sense when he holds his posts. When it comes to the analysis of the importance of NATO both for the United Nations and for Norway's security situation, I fully share them. But it was certainly an idealisation of Europe and the EU when the representative, Mr Igland, said that they have now fully coordinated themselves within the EU in relation to NATO. I guess we've seen it over the past year, and we see it per year. the date on which there is a monthly difference in many areas. Isn't our main task what the Government is doing now, trying to get Berlin Pluss, trying to get the most cooperation functions with the new European structures from NATO? Isn't that what's our common overseeing task right when it comes to that question?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-26.ana.ud2160e1153	I did not say that the EU countries have fully coordinated themselves, on the contrary, we see that the opposite is the case. What I said was that we have to assume that there will be a greater degree of coordination and that the coordination of the policies of the European NATO countries will increasingly take place in NATO, and that NATO and the EU will jointly take responsibility for security policy. That is what is in the agreement between the EU and NATO. So I said that if it doesn't happen, we have to assume that the European Union is brought together even more, and that they are developing something on the side of NATO. In both cases, there will be a problem for Norway, because we are outside one of the two organisations. If you think it's not a problem at all, I really get a problem. One thing is that you can think of standing outside one of them, but admit that it's a problem, and then do something about it, which I have the impression that the current government has luckily done. But if you say that there is no problem at all, then I'm going to quit, because at least it's not in line with the analysis I have of the future development of security policy in Europe.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-26.ana.ud2160e1161	The leader of the Foreign Affairs Committee is quite right that the UN has had a smaller operational role in recent years. Norway is perhaps the best example: we had 1,400–1,500 men under direct UN command a few years ago. The question has to be: how, together with many other Member States, can we increase the role of the United Nations as a peace operator by making the Member States both economically and in other ways available to the United Nations? How does the Chair of the Foreign Affairs Committee see that this could be possible?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-26.ana.ud2160e1168	What we have seen is that the nature of the conflicts has changed, they have become much more violent and more difficult. That's why the UN has had to use military structures that exist. The lesson from Bosnia was that the UN soldiers stood and watched that 7,000 people were slaughtered within a few hours in Srebrenica. It was a very common U.N. operation with blue berets and light weapons. But then you had to call NATO, and only then did you stop ethnic cleansing and violence in Bosnia-Herzegovina. That's why you've had a shift in participation in this type of military operation, instead of in the traditional and a little bit more pleasant, you might say, UN operations that we know from Lebanon and elsewhere. I agree that it is desirable to maintain this type of operation as well, and that Norway participates there, for example. maintaining the competence to participate in the future. But the historical evolution has been as it has been.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-26.ana.ud2160e1173	No more words have been asked for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-26.ana.ud2160e1176	There is a problem here that I am no longer a party leader, because most of this debate could have been best suited for a party leader and not a foreign minister. I just want to say cards to the discussion that expanded on batches, that there is a difference in substance between the Right EU position and the SV's position on NATO. This is simply because SV has established its operational approach to becoming this magnification period, while the Right has set its EU position when possible, and I believe that there is actually a formulation that SV would like them to have had in their programme. It is quite clear that you cannot both let go of the proposal, and at the same time say that it stands firm, and that is essentially what has been at the heart of that debate. I don't think there's any reason to bother SV more about it in this particular context, but just notice that there's no coincidence between the two party programs. Since one of the things that this government is being attacked for, on the SV side, is precisely the attitude towards NATO, I must be allowed to note that this debate once again shows the weight the Stortinget attaches to NATO as Norway's central cooperation body next to the UN. I have just made a very clear reference to some of the arguments in favour of this being important, and I am not a moment in doubt that these are important positions, including for the Workers' Party. I therefore believe that I can say without a doubt that this debate has also shown the broad consensus behind Norwegian NATO policy. The question is therefore not what a challenger of this government will do in terms of NATO membership. That's not where the discussion lies. The big question is, of course, whether the Workers' Party means – when SV comes into a position where they are going to talk to the Workers' Party – that in any government cooperation, SV will have the opportunity to influence the many, many decisions that concern NATO and the transatlantic relationship, or if you want, with all the critical questions that SV has asked, keep them at arm's length in relation to the issue. For Jagland is quite obviously right that one of the most important things we face is the question: Will the Americans bet on NATO, will the Europeans bet on NATO? And if you're going to bet on NATO, you have to be willing to work on a daily basis to keep the two parts of the alliance, the North American and the European, together. Whether you succeed or not is in many ways the result of the many day-to-day decisions you make. And it's in relation to that and the attacks that this government has been subjected to, that someone is raising the question: how will a challenger to the sitting government deal with that question? At that point, there has been nothing near being ready, and in the next few months, it has to be made clear whether it is that SV is to be kept out of these decisions, or whether they are now going to have the opportunity to make their ever-nato-critical positions appear to the next government. It is the real issue, not whether or not to make proposals for discharge. There are not so many issues raised during the debate that I need to comment on. I just want to mention one relationship that I think we should stay with, and that is that we have just made a successful choice in Afghanistan. It has not least been successful because there was peace and security around this election to a higher extent than we in many ways feared in advance. And I think you could say that one of the reasons why there has been peace and security around this election, so that the Afghans have been able to express their opinion, has just been that we have had a not insignificant NATO exposure in the country, and NATO has decided that Afghanistan is priority. 1st@item: inlistbox I think it shows that NATO is relevant in today's world, that they make the difference between getting a successful election and a failed election, and that in that way they have brought the situation in Afghanistan in the right direction, got it in the future. That's what I think we should stay by when we discuss what NATO is going to do in the time that comes. With regard to other questions, I just want to mention two things in relation to Jacobsen's posts. One is the issue of the Greater Middle East, which he mentioned in passing. I belong to those who believe that the idea of the Greater Middle East, which is about democratisation and reform, is in many ways very correct. But I'm also pretty sure that a lot of the timing on this issue has been very crazy, because the very situation in the Iraqi prisons and the way the Israeli-Palestinian conflict took on the spring side, made the very good idea almost unsaleable at that time. And I think that's a very bad thing. I think Jacobsen and I kind of agree on this assessment, but it's put a really good idea back. The other thing I want to say that I think is interesting about Jacobsen's posts is that he's staying at the issue of what's the difference between what he called the opposition and the pure terrorists. I think it's right to stay on the question of whether you don't have to be much clearer now than many of those who bomb and kill civilian Iraqis, and that there are forces we have to put in place. What, in my opinion, is the main issue in Iraq is to get a development, a political process, which makes it possible to make a choice that allows you to get a government with more legitimacy than the one you now have. But then you have to be clear that that's the issue, that's what's the choice, that's what's the challenge, and in this area there's been a lot of vagueness and little clarity in Norwegian policy. I think Jacobsen's posts are an interesting warning that you might be more aware of the importance in the future, because this is a bloody reality for many Iraqis today. I'm going to come back to some of these issues later in a presentation I've asked to hold for the Storting, but I just want to mention that I think this in many ways is an interesting and important issue. Then there have also been questions about the loan availability between NATO countries in practice and the debate that has taken place in the media, but which has to a very small extent marked today's debate. To that it is to say, yes, the sitting government has followed the policy we have had all year round, in terms of sales and therefore also loans in relation to neighbouring countries such as NATO countries, Nordic countries and, if I don't remember mistakes, Australia, Japan and New Zealand, and that is that in these questions we haven't required a retail statement. This applies to both sales and loans. We've stayed within this. This has been Norwegian policy for all years. I agree with that, and we haven't tried to change it. So we've also assessed it so that the access to the loan and borrowing of material within the alliance are a positive and important element. Just because Igland has been concerned with how to keep allies together, it is clear that running this policy would not be without complications in that way. That's the motivation. I would like to say that I am quite surprised that the matter is coming up today, because on a couple of occasions a year and a half ago, the representative Kjetil Bjørklund asked me written questions which are very precise in their form, and which show that there is no doubt as to what the issue has been about. Of course, I have answered these questions in both rounds, and after that, in these two and a half years, nothing has happened to this matter. But suddenly it appeared, and that's probably how it is often in politics. The strange thing is that it seems like someone in the media is seeing this as a new issue. To that it is said that this has been explained by the government on the basis of very precise questions from Bjørklund's side a year and a half ago, and it has been a little interesting that there has just been no follow-up to these two answers that I have given.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-26.ana.ud2160e1197	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-26.ana.ud2160e1200	The Minister of Foreign Affairs is right that if the Stortinge had wanted special rules for the United States, especially during the war in Iraq, such proposals could now have been made on two or three occasions in connection with the reports on arms sales presented to the Stortinge. However, I ask: What political assessments did the Government make in the situation in which it was? Was it thought that there were opportunities to make a political assessment about this? Did the items on the table that were of a restrictive nature on that occasion? Furthermore, I would like to ask: was the policy pursued by other allies in relation to the United States in the current situation, for example. countries that had pronounced themselves strongly against the war in Iraq – I am thinking in particular of Germany?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-26.ana.ud2160e1209	Once we have based our policy, it is the Norwegian policy we have taken on board. We have assessed that being able to borrow between allies is an important part of a policy in relation to our allies, and that is what has been crucial in this context. So to the political signal of what we thought about the war. Everyone knows that it happened on the basis of the Security Council question, so there has in no way been any confusion about that issue itself. Therefore, in our opinion, it has been possible with clarity and having both of these elements in Norwegian policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-26.ana.ud2160e1216	I perceive both the foreign minister's comments and the reply to the reply of representative Thorbjørn Jagland as a confirmation that Norway has lent out so-called laser target lighting equipment, i.e. offensive military material, to the United States in a situation when they were in the process of going to an illegal invasion of Iraq, a military action and an occupation that Norway at that time considered insufficient grounding in international law. I must also point out that then we have been in the situation that Norway's official foreign policy has been that this was a war that was contrary to international law, while the defence policy has meant that we contributed to a war that was initially opposed by lending offensive military equipment to this warfare. Does the Minister for Foreign Affairs not think that Norway's attitude was a double moral one?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-26.ana.ud2160e1225	That's not double moral at all. I would like to remind you that I have explained these questions to the SV Group on 17 March 2003 and 3 April 2003, and it has been silent since that time.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-26.ana.ud2160e1230	It is true that it is the Government that deals with the legislation that the Storting has drawn up for the sale and lending of weapons and other defence equipment, and that there are no internal restrictions in the alliance. Nevertheless, I find reason to follow up the two previous replicators. Of course, it is a matter of showing political discretion in a given situation, i.e. a situational discretion, especially in a situation where Norway's official policy was that we did not support the invasion of Iraq, and since this was a time that was so closely linked to the invasion as it actually was. So I want to repeat the question: was it not made any political assessments in connection with this loan, or was it considered to be a completely curative matter because there is a lot of lending between NATO countries, as the Foreign Minister says?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-26.ana.ud2160e1239	Yes, it is absolutely right that there is some such lending between NATO countries, and it is based on the Norwegian policy that there is no end-user assessment. What Marit Nybakk is asking is whether we should have changed that policy. Because that's what we would have done, that would have been the consequence of it. We didn't think that was right. We may disagree on that, but I have to admit that I believe that a lot of people actually agreed on it, since after Bjørklund raised the questions, it has been so calm about the matter, so far. I think that's an interesting point. I would like to provide an additional information that I actually forgot in my post, and which is just relevant to Marit Nybakk, because Marit Nybakk has always asked me the question of the New Agenda Coalition resolution. I have a few days ago instructed our representation in New York to vote in favour of this resolution this year, simply because it is now so modified in relation to the past that we are satisfied with the text as it is now. It shows, in my opinion, that it was important to abstain on a few occasions, just to get the text in the direction that better expresses Norwegian positions. Now the proposers have listened to our advice, and thus it is possible to vote in favour of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-26.ana.ud2160e1252	I think there are some strange answers we now get from the foreign minister. Firstly, it is not the case that the Stortinget is informed even if the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, in reply to a written question from a representative of a big business, discloses something about a matter. Secondly, these answers that Stortinget has received to questions from Kjetil Bjørklund do not contain anything about these laserv havens, which are far more offensive than anything previously known in this situation. My first question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs is: can the Minister for Foreign Affairs not seriously believe that the Stortinget has been informed by general written answers to questions? So to paragraph two, we haven't been in that situation until Norway went against a war that the United States has waged against international law. That's why we don't have any habits in this situation in relation to what we normally lend out to NATO. And that is why I have to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs: when Norway was initially against the US invasion of Iraq, but then next time offensive military material is put at the disposal of the United States, is it not quite timely that Norway should be taken into account for the war that we actually opposed?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-26.ana.ud2160e1263	The answer to the last question is no. Now it's been a year and a half, and nobody's done it so far. Then I think it's a clear proof that Kristin Halvorsen at that point makes an unnecessary concern. When it comes to the main question itself, I just want to remind you what Bjørklund's question was on 17 March 2003. It was: ‘Does the Government consider that situations where arms exports are restricted to NATO countries cannot be considered?’ It answered the government in a letter to the Stortinget. So we got a follow-up question on April 3rd, 2003 about four crickets and one control station, which showed that they were on the ball. But then it didn't happen anymore. I do not know why it did not happen anymore, it is possible that it may have explanations that I should not go into. I just notice that we have said these things in communication with the Stortinget. If I perceive Kristin Halvorsen right now, the problem is what you've borrowed. Some things mean she can be borrowed, and some things mean she can't be borrowed. So that means that she thinks that in that case you could borrow something, and that's a progress just that.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-26.ana.ud2160e1283	The central party's starting point is that the Norwegian export code is good. We don't see any reason to change that. However, the fact that there is export legislation at the bottom does not make it possible to ignore an entirely up-to-date political situation. And it was a very special political situation internationally in February and March 2003, where the conflicts were enormous, as large as we have hardly seen them across the Atlantic and within the European continent. My question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, which he has so far received, but which I ask him to answer in a very specific way, is whether the Government considered this loan to the Americans in February/March 2003 to be a completely curative matter, which he considered completely independent of the actual political international situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-26.ana.ud2160e1293	So, as you can see from the answers I sent, the core question is whether or not to go into the retail question. That's what Åslaug Haga asks questions about. The government has focused on what has been clear Norwegian policy, and that now Åslaug Haga has also joined, namely that we have not gone into the retail issue in relation to allies. If you were to do that, you would change the policy in that area. You could probably consider doing that, but that's what it would be about. As I said, the fact that there has been calmness in spite of these answers for a year and a half suggests that not many have been as uncomfortable as you now give the impression of being.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-26.ana.ud2160e1302	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-26.ana.ud2160e1305	SV is for the release of NATO and of course is working on this as a goal. This includes, inter alia: to maintain a NATO-critical line in the work carried out here on the Storting and in the public debate. We do that, and we'll keep doing that. The representative Julie Christiansen gave a precise description of the Right Relationship with the EU Position in his statement, how it is being practised in the Government and in the Stortinget. There is no majority in this Chamber for EU membership, says Christiansen. We understand this. Then it's strange to argue that SV knows the same thing about NATO, that there is no majority in favour of the appointment of NATO in this Chamber, nor in the Norwegian people. In SV, we are known to be committed to getting through our policies, and we recognise the reality. We also recognise the fact that in our organization there are very few, if any, who believe that the announcement of NATO is an ultimate requirement for government cooperation. It's a completely different matter, and that doesn't mean, of course, that we're renouncing our fundamental position on the fact that Norway should not be a member of NATO. Many in this room regard the NATO alliance and its development as a response to the security challenges of our time, and do not seem to care that the world has changed since the fall of the Wall, the dissolution of the Soviet Union and 11 September 2001, and that these changes make us face new challenges. Let me use today's case in the media as an example. So today, it has become known that Norway lent laser lighting equipment to the United States that has been used in the Iraq war. This is unknown to the Storting and is the full responsibility of the Government. Let's make it clear. At the same time, there is an export code that does not restrict arms exports to allied countries, without exception. This is known. But it's problematic, especially when our closest allies set off international wars, like that. happened in Iraq. This is a back porch. It should be said that the government in matters of arms exports to the United States and the United Kingdom before and during the Iraq war should have shown a judgement, a judgement where one had chosen to say no, we cannot allow this loan. But it did not, and this case related to the lending of target lighting equipment to Iraq, which is a very offensive capacity, remained unknown both to the Stortinget and to the Norwegian public. It was the principle around the question of arms exports to allies, whatever the circumstances, that was the basis for me promoting more questions to the foreign minister last spring. But then this was borrowed from laser target lighting equipment unknown. You were familiar with lending noise jammers, and there was a rather different problem. This loan remained unknown until today. It's essential, and I guess it wasn't a coincidence. The answers pointed out general clarifications about the arms export code that we all know about. But it raises important questions, as if there should be limits to our allies as well. It's e.g. a general export ban to prevent arms exports to warring countries. There's a limit. It doesn't apply to allies, as we know. The government has dealt with an export-related code, the general export code, as the majority of the population have stated, but should in our opinion be discretionary. I'm using this example to show a dilemma related to both the relationship with our close allies and the alliance, which the majority could happily discuss. But you're not so interested in that. NATO says in its documents that today’s security challenges are about trafficking, drug trafficking, organised crime, international crime, the possible transportation of weapons of mass destruction and international terrorism. Common to all these security policy challenges is that they can be solved to a very small extent by military means, but rather by diplomatic, legal, police, intelligence and economic means. But it's not these instruments of NATO demand, rather on the contrary. Then it's interesting to witness that in this situation, there's NATO demand, ever new capacities, there's rapid reaction forces, missile defenses or special niche capacities, i.e., purely military capabilities. This is not entirely related. It seems strange that the bulk of the population is so little concerned with this obviously problematic, but the more concerned about what kind of formulations SV has in its batch program, in its very good batch program, about the announcement of NATO. SV is against Norwegian membership of NATO. Everyone knows that, in line with the fact that there's no majority here in the Storing that means the same thing. It's pretty obvious to most people here. NATO has a strategy for the use of the alliance's nuclear weapons in a war situation, even in the first place. There is a great deal of concern that NATO, and therefore Norway too, builds its security on the ability to resort to nuclear weapons in given situations. We have challenged several people here today to answer exactly how you perceive this obviously problematic. But it's quite quiet. One might wonder if this is something government parties are concerned about, or whether most of the work is characterized by general good wishes and wants to keep the noise level within the alliance at a low level. Norway has therefore been based on NATO as a guarantor of Norwegian security, an alliance with nuclear weapons and an ongoing policy that is directly in conflict with several of the 13 points of disarmament and non-proliferation from the Non-Proliferation Surveillance Conference in 2000. When discussing developments in NATO, it must be noted that membership is in conflict both on paper and in practice with the Non-Proliferation Agreement, of which Norway and all other NATO countries are members, and also with the wish of a large majority, 92 p.m., of the Norwegian population for a ban on nuclear weapons. The non-proliferation agreement for nuclear weapons is legally binding and overarching the commitments of NATO's nuclear strategy. During the 2000 Non-Proliferation Surveillance Conference, Member States committed themselves to a 13-point nuclear disarmament action plan. NATO's nuclear policy violates several of these obligations. This is obviously a problem. It would be desirable for this discussion of what we could do to make a greater contribution to the fact that NATO did not have nuclear weapons as part of its strategies, was debated here in the Chamber, but that is not the case. That's what we should have wanted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-26.ana.ud2160e1341	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-26.ana.ud2160e1344	I think it is quite right and entirely relevant that SV wants another practice when it concerns arms exports and arms lending, and that they propose it and work for it. It should just be missing. But I thought it would be untimely when a debt was owed to the Government to have been subjugated when the representative Bjørklund actually asked as follows: ‘What are the assessments behind this decision,’ specifically, but also further ‘and the Government believes that there are no situations in which restrictions can be imposed on arms exports to NATO countries?’ – that is, completely general issues that apply to everything. Then one can't subsequently criticize the government for not mentioning exactly what has come up in the media today, for one has responded in general. When one on a general question received an answer saying that one would not introduce a new policy, I thought that if one wanted to change that policy, one would have to propose it. If not, the criticism of the Government will be unimaginable. That's what I thought he was. It is not true that SV should not be able to believe that one should have a different policy, but when one has asked a question and received an answer and does nothing about it, one cannot criticize it either.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-26.ana.ud2160e1358	At the time these questions were raised, what was known to the public was the issue of loaning four crooks from Troms to the United Kingdom. One was not aware that there was already at that time a loan agreement on offensive equipment that could obviously bring a war benefit related to the invasion of Iraq. It puts the matter in a completely different light. But it is quite correct that the Government's answer was linked to the general fact that the export code we have today does not require a final declaration.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-26.ana.ud2160e1363	No one else has asked for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-26.ana.ud2160e1367	Since we've had a wild siding put into this debate, quite carefully, I think it's worth recalling some of the elementary issues that relate to the communication between magnification and government. We have free access to all 165 representatives in Stortinget to ask written questions, to ask oral questions in the ordinary Question Time and to raise any question. All of this happens in full publicity. There is no less publicity related to written questions than to other issues in Stortinget. It is at any time who asks the question, or the party who travels a case, who must take responsibility for continuing it if you are not satisfied with the answer you get. And then you have a whole bunch of ways to do it. It becomes reasonable especially when after a period of 1 1/2 years you find that you have neglected to pursue the matter you raised, and will try to assign the Government responsibility for failing to do so. Why has a debate of a routine nature, namely the annual report on cooperation in NATO, become such a broad political debate as it has become today? Some, especially the representative Arnstad from the Central Party, have wondered about it and said that it is very special. Yes, it may be, but something has happened since the last time we dealt with an annual report on this point, namely that for the first time in Norwegian history, we are facing the real political opportunity that Norway's relationship with NATO should be safeguarded in the government of the party that from the creation of it has defined itself with one overriding objective, namely to get Norway out of NATO. We have had a number of foreign ministers in a number of governments in Norway who have been hot followers of Norwegian EU membership, but who have had to manage Norwegian policy vis-à-vis the EU on the basis of the fact that it has not been possible to do so. It's not just about our current foreign minister. It's about our current head of the Foreign Affairs Committee, and it's about virtually all the foreign ministers we've had. But it is a logical blow – at best – when you present it as if it would be a parallel to a situation in which we would possibly have a foreign minister who would have the daily responsibility for Norway's relationship with the NATO Alliance, and who itself has the ultimate goal of abolishing the NATO alliance or at least of notifying Norway of the NATO alliance. That is why, at the beginning of this change of words, I found it necessary to ask that question, since the so-called majority option that is opposed to the elections has itself invited this debate by publicly discussing who will be responsible for which parts of the policy of any cooperation regime. Could it be that we will experience the situation that we will have a foreign minister representing a party whose overall objective is to wind up NATO, substantially notifying Norway out of NATO? I have not received any answer to that in this debate, and I would ask that those who carry on these talks publicly or in the back room agree between them and come back with a reasonably clear answer. I think Norwegian voters have a right to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-26.ana.ud2160e1380	The reason why I take the floor is the debate on the lending of laser lighting equipment and the remarkable interpretation of the government's information obligation that the President-in-Office of the Storting is now guilty of. It is not the case that the Government has fulfilled its information obligation to Stortinget by answering a written question from a single representative and thus believing that in such an important and controversial and political matter, the Stortinget has been made aware of what the Stortinget should have been familiar with. So it's not SV that has neglected, but it's the government that has neglected when you haven't explained this in a thorough and detailed way, so you knew what this was actually about. That was the problem here, that you weren't familiar with it. I am also amazed at all that discussion today about what is in the SV Party Programme on NATO. So today we are discussing NATO's report and the fact that part of NATO's strategy is a nuclear strategy, and that 98 pst. the Norwegian population opposes the use of nuclear weapons. If it doesn't concern the majority, it should at least worry that these weapons actually exist. It seems that it is not relevant in this debate at all. What do we do with that? Are we discussing this in NATO, or are we not discussing it in NATO? Do you dare take it up there, or do you dare not take it up there? You have to do it if you're going to meet the non-proliferation and disarmament agreements. In fact, you have to discuss with those who have it, and who according to these agreements do not have a permanent right to hold these weapons forever, but a temporary right. It is a very devious right, for there are also countries that have not acceded to these agreements, and which, outside of all legislation, both develop and want such weapons. What is the possibility of resisting this, if the contracting country does not comply with its disarmament obligations, does not comply with its obligations under the Non-Proliferation Agreement? It's a very serious topic, because it's probably just one weapon that's really a weapons of mass destruction, if we're going to go deep into terminology, and it's nuclear weapons. It's very serious. I have to say that I am amazed at how little it seems that the Storting has today gone into that topic's substance. I am pleased that the Minister for Foreign Affairs today says that Norway will now join the NAC resolution presented in the UN. That's good. I want to remind you that the last time Norway would not join, NATO Canada joined. The NATO country Canada joined, because for them, loyalty to the disarmament agreement and the Non-Proliferation Agreement was more important than the NATO nuclear strategy. I had also expected that loyalty to be in this great crowd and perhaps especially in the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-26.ana.ud2160e1389	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-26.ana.ud2160e1392	Please enter a last attempt on SV's application. What they have promised their voters is to make proposals in the United Kingdom to withdraw Norway from NATO. When it was adopted at the 2001 national meeting, everyone knew, both at that national meeting and elsewhere, that it was a demonstration proposal. That's exactly why you decided, I assume. But now SV's representatives in this room say that it has never been intended to fulfill the promise. Then you just have to draw this conclusion: that promise had one purpose: to lead the voters behind the light. So to the government's information obligation. It is the strangest understanding of the government's information obligation I have ever heard from this pulpit, that a Norwegian government should be obliged to keep the Storting informed of enquiries from our allies and how to deal with those enquiries. In that case, no Norwegian government has ever complied with the information obligation, fortunately.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-26.ana.ud2160e1401	With regard to the continued discussion of the SV programme and NATO position, I refer to the previous speakers. I believe it must be relatively heavy, which today has not understood what the answer to it is. So to the last question. This is not about whether the Government should continuously inform any enquiry. This is a situation where Norway has said no to take part in a war of international law-enforcement, and at some point you say yes to borrowing laser lighting equipment, which is a very offensive weapon, which is to be used in this war, as you say you are against. It's a very delicate question, as a government that had a desire to be open and have coverage behind it for its actions, should have informed the Storting about. There's not any question in any situation. This is a very serious issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-26.ana.ud2160e1408	Several have not asked for the word for a line. Before the President gives the floor to Minister for Foreign Affairs Jan Petersen, the President will propose, since we are now going to round with speakers, that speaking time be set to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-26.ana.ud2160e1413	In fact, I don't think I'm going to go further now. The government has clearly answered the questions asked by Stortinget, and as far as I can understand, Stortinget has accepted that it has been done in a comprehensive way. I don't want to do anything wrong, and after this debate I'm not quite sure if I understand the position correctly. But as both Kjetil Bjørklund and Karin Andersen have formulated themselves, I understand that the problem is this very specific matter we are now facing, and not the matter that was raised in questions from Bjørklund. That means there's only one logical consequence of it, and it's that there's no problem in itself that you lend a type of weapon to an ally that might have been used in Iraq. It's okay for Stortinget. The question is what type of weapon? That means that SV actually believes that it would be acceptable for certain types of weapons, such as wheezing, to end up in Iraq. It might put the debate in a slightly different perspective than what you can get the impression of in the chord shift.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-26.ana.ud2160e1420	I find it almost unheard of when the Right Representative Wages and the Minister for Foreign Affairs raised that the answer to my questions to the Minister for Foreign Affairs gave the Government a back cover and deprived the Government of any claim to assess, on its own basis, what was involved in the Iraq war. This is the responsibility of the Government. The loan of target lighting equipment is unknown to Stortinget. It was unknown for a year and a half, until today. Whether it should have been made known to Stortinget is a central question, and whether it should have been known to the public is a central question. Whether the government should exercise discretion to ensure that in this case it had said that this is a type of equipment that we do not want to borrow to our allies without knowing that it is not used in a war of international law, is also a central question.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-26.ana.ud2160e1425	I think it is necessary to say a few words, so that this debate does not go far enough in public, and that at least we get to debate what is important, and that is the question of whether one could have shown political discretion in this matter. But it must not be confused with the question of Stortingen's obligation to provide information, as I feel that Stortinget is coming out very badly. What is a fact is that we have a regulation that the Stortinge has unanimously adopted. There are special rules for the NATO countries, but we have made one exception, namely Turkey, because of the internal situation in Turkey. But we've never done anything special for the United States. This could have been done if you wanted to, in the pre-war situation in Iraq, and especially after the war broke out, if you thought that in that situation Norway should not export or lend weapons or military material to the United States. We should have been told about this when we dealt with the messages here every year. In those messages, it's listed that it's exported and lent armaments to the United States. It was black on the part of the Minister for Foreign Affairs that you actually borrowed material, and what kind of material you borrowed, to the United States. Since then, no proposal has been made to have a special rule for the United States in this situation. I say this, because if you turn this into a question about the Storting's information obligation, it's going to be a completely wrong debate. Then, once you have cleaned it up, you can have a political debate on whether you should have acted differently. At least then you can have a real political debate on it instead of being suffocated with formalities. In that case, the Stortinget will come out very badly, because no steps have been taken to prevent the sale of weapons to the United States, or the adoption of special rules for the United States, despite the fact that the Stortinget has actually formulated special rules for another NATO country, namely Turkey.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-26.ana.ud2160e1434	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[See page 245]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-26.ana.ud2160e1449	This is the first time an annual report from the Interparliamentary Union is presented and dealt with in this way in the Grand Duchy, and it is time. The Interparliamentary Union has members from almost all democratic countries, except the United States, and also has members from many other countries who have different types of parliaments, even though not everyone has been elected on the basis of principles which could be adopted in this Chamber. It is a very important meeting place for parliamentarians. I can draw attention to the fact that very many parliaments send very central foreign politicians. Many send their presidents, or speakers, to these assemblies. In Norway, it has been decided to deal with this in a different way. But my hope is that in the years to come we will also be able to get more of the central foreign politicians involved in this work, because it is an arena where you, among other things. talks about and tries to get parliaments to take responsibility for both ratifying, implementing and financing the various international conventions to which most countries have joined through the UN. Some countries spend a long time doing this. Someone joins without following up. It is very important to be able to involve parliamentarians in taking on their important responsibility to make this job possible. So IPU is a school both in compliance with international conventions and perhaps in general a school in which democracy and parliamentaryism are being promoted in general. I want to underline it. Last week, IPU and the United Nations had two cooperation meetings in New York, including: The non-proliferation agreement and the disarmament agreement were a topic. The UN peacekeeping operations were a theme, and reconciliation processes and post-conflict reconstruction were also a theme. It is very important to involve parliaments around the world in all these important issues. On the part of the United Nations, a very unanimous wish was expressed that parliaments should take a much greater responsibility for these important international issues ahead than they do today. I think that is an important message that is also important to bring to Norway. And then there's a little bit in the attitude about the geopolitical groups. For the last two years, Norway has held the Presidency of the 12-plus group, which is all Western European countries, as well as countries such as Israel, New Zealand, Australia and Canada. It is Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt from the Workers' Party who has held this position. It's true, as it says, that the geopolitical groups are of great importance, and perhaps in particular our group, which is the most well-organized. But I would like to stress that it is not desirable for the geopolitical groups to have some kind of dominance in this system. We have now seen – in the light of the major conflicts in the world – that it can be very easy to sketch between Western countries and other countries. That's very unfortunate, because these are are arenas where we should definitely discuss the substance of the cases and the implementation of international commitments to which all countries have joined, or we try to get other countries to join. These geopolitical groups should therefore be used only as a tool and not as an objective. It is important for me to underline it, so that it does not attach itself to another opinion. In addition, during the period Norway has held the Presidency of what is called the Middle East Committee. It's Finn Martin Vallersnes from the Right who's held it. This is reflected in the range of activities that Norway has tried to do in this area, namely to facilitate the meeting, discussion and perhaps finding some ways to go further, and to support under the international initiatives taken in this area. I have no additions to this to what is in the position, but I want – it must be allowed to express someone here – that representatives of the Foreign Affairs Committee, more than those who have now done, take an interest in this work. IPU has also set up a new form of work to deal with issues such as: in Manila in April, has already been established. Then it is possible for us in the Norwegian IPU delegation to set up a much broader partnership with many more in the Storting on our recordings in relation to the important themes that come up. It has been our intention and our wish that the Storting should be more involved in this, and that together we could use that arena to promote both the democratic principles and to speed up the follow-up of various international conventions to which Norway has joined and on which we are strongly attached.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-26.ana.ud2160e1464	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[See page 245]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-26.ana.ud2160e1479	Just pretty short. It is this year's 50th anniversary of the Western Union, and the anniversary was marked last week. The representative Inge Wohnning said this morning – I can't quote him correctly, but content was about that – that there's a danger that so long cooperation could become a natural thing without commitment. As far as the Western Union is concerned, there may be something of a truth, but I won't take it too far. But it is a very uncertain future for the Western Union, as the Western Union's operational tasks have been transferred to the EU. That is why the Western Union still has more talks and discussions at parliamentarian level. But it's important in itself. However, there is no need to hide that the Secretary-General of the Western Union Javier Solana has been invited, but did not find it worth meeting at the seven previous sessions. It does say something about the Secretary-General's assessment of the importance of the Western Union. Nevertheless, on a number of occasions I have allowed myself to point out things that I have thought are of importance to Norway in the Western Union. There is confusion about the role of national parliaments in the ESDP and democratic transparency, of which there does not seem to be too much. The democratic deficit is the concern of the parliamentarians of the Western Union and has talked a lot about it, and they have provided many written statements on it. I have also used the opportunity to speak to Norway in relation to what goes on defence equipment. Not many months ago, we also had a delegation from the Western Union visiting here in Norway to look at this, not least linked up with the Kongsberg district. I have no reason to extend this day's debate in Stortinget further. I just want to stress that this Union has now lived for 50 years. I don't think the future of the organization below is long!
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-26.ana.ud2160e1494	We're going to remember that! Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-26.ana.ud2160e1504	We are then ready to vote on the matter no. 1 to 7 on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-26.ana.ud2160e1536	There is no voting theme in case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
