ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-14.ana.ud1800e28	They called for alternates, for Akershus County Christian Holm, for Hedmark County Grethe G. Fossum, for Hordaland County Ragna Flotve and for Oslo Akthar Chaudry, have taken the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-14.ana.ud1800e45	The President will propose the election of the President-in-Office of the European Parliament today. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-14.ana.ud1800e50	I suggest Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-14.ana.ud1800e55	Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve is proposed as president. – Other proposals are not available, and Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve is unanimously elected president of the Stortinget meeting today.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-14.ana.ud1800e63	The representative of Olav Gunnar Ballo will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-14.ana.ud1800e66	On behalf of the big business representative Sigbjørn Molvik and myself, I would like to propose the reintroduction of full reimbursement for telephone consultations.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-14.ana.ud1800e72	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-14.ana.ud1800e95	On Monday the Stortingen received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the following members of the Government would meet for oral Question Time: State Council Per-Kristian Foss State Council Torild Skogsholm State Council Børge Brende The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, wish to ask themselves the main questions asked. – We then start with the first main questions, from the representative Kristin Halvorsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-14.ana.ud1800e114	I would like to ask the Minister of Finance a question. Yesterday, the Commission's proposals for reform were presented. In SV we are amazed at the tone that the government, with the finance minister at the head, put on in the debate beyond the day. For what the Minister of Finance did was that he joined the ranks of the LO and the workers’ organisations, which he must therefore have on his side if he is to carry out such a reform, while the NHO and the employers’ side were completely unaffected by the anger of the Minister of Finance. There was no challenge from the Government to limit senior executives' pensions, and no challenge from the Government to get employers to come up with a plan for how to give these older workers a place in the labour market if the pension reform is implemented. My question to the Minister of Finance is: How in the world has the Government planned to implement a pension reform in conflict with the large labour force groups?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-14.ana.ud1800e125	You should be careful with personal experiences and express them exactly in the Storting, but even I felt enough that it was the representative Halvorsen who put the most in my throat through three debate programmes yesterday. It is clear that it is not surprising that employee organisations react negatively to a Commission that proposes some tightening of social security. At the same time, we are also making a number of proposals on the expansion of the expenditure of the population, and overall, I think it is a good idea that the Commission's proposals should be put into practice. The mistake everyone makes, including up to several debaters yesterday, is to compare with today's pension. Today's pension scheme is not continuing. Then such a comparison is a little bit of a popular deception. You have to be honest enough to tell people about it – if you don't fool people. I want to hit the following quote from Kjell Bjørndalen, leader of the Joint Alliance, who says: ‘... I do not accept that the fight to maintain good public pension schemes will continue in the future as part of a fight to prevent completely necessary changes in our common pension system.’ - I agree with the heart.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-14.ana.ud1800e141	If you want to achieve a comprehensive pension reform that affects a large proportion of Norwegian workers, there is one thing that is extremely important, and that is that they are also at the top. Throughout the discussion that has gone on so far, it seems that the top managers who have negotiated their own pension contracts in the million class, who themselves have agreed with employers to dispose of their full rights when they are early in the 60s, have not intended to contribute anything. On the contrary, they argue that these are just them, that's not true! That's not going to work in the big context. Will the Minister of Finance challenge top managers or in any other way propose changes to the conditions they have in his pension agreements, when, at the same time, he clearly supports a pension reform that sends a message to 70 pst. by Norwegian women, saying that their pensions, their low and middle pensions, are the factors involved in paying for the pension reform?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-14.ana.ud1800e150	The advantage of debates in Stortinget is that you are not interrupted by Kristin Halvorsen. In yesterday's debate, I tried to say something about this, and I'm happy to be allowed to do it now. I believe that even senior executives must contribute to a pension reform, not necessarily because their pensions are affected by the rules of popular fear, because neither the agreed pension of the LO manager nor the early retirement age nor the equivalent of the NHO manager are regulated by the provisions of the People's Rights Commission, to which the Pension Commission applies, but it is important symbolic to indicate that the reform should also apply to those at the top. I can also, of course, reveal the ‘secretity’ that the Committee’s attitude suggests some changes in the tax conditions for particularly high pensions, in favour of those with low and medium pension income.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-14.ana.ud1800e159	There will be three follow-up questions – first Øystein Djupedal.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-14.ana.ud1800e162	The last finance minister now said was happy. Can it also be expected that the Minister of Finance will take the initiative to review the various state top managers' pension schemes? We have now seen that the director of Health South has resigned his pension, wisely enough, after a media storm. So he agreed to more in retirement than the Prime Minister's salary. Does this mean that the Minister of Finance will now review the pension agreements of the various Heads of State and ensure that no one goes ahead with such examples as these have done? Finally, I understand that the Minister of Finance thinks it is wise that Finn Bergesen and also Gerd-Liv Valla and others look at their own pension systems. Does that mean that he quite explicitly here in Stortinget would say that he recommends Finn Bergesen, who has 1.2 million. kr in pension from he is 62 years old, to make sure that this agreement is renegotiated, and that he gets a pension that it is possible to talk publicly about even in daylight, which he obviously felt very dissatisfied with yesterday when the media searchlight once again focused on his untimely pension scheme?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-14.ana.ud1800e169	I don't think I'm going to give advice to the boards of LO, NHO or any other organization. It must be a fundamental principle that the boards of directors are responsible for the plans agreed upon. The important thing is that there is full transparency about this. It is a law that already provides for a long way to go. So, if that's not good enough, there's a new draft consultation that will ensure sufficient transparency about this. I also record that the Minister of Health has announced a review of the board's practice regarding pension schemes within health companies, and I take note of that. I also agree with the parliamentary leader, Mr Stoltenberg, who said in the newspapers yesterday that the idea of legislating a ceiling for private pension schemes for individuals is an unimaginable way to go. I want to add that as a reason for the fact that circumvention opportunities are going to be huge. It would be an illusion to think that you can regulate it that way.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-14.ana.ud1800e179	Harald T. Nesvik – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-14.ana.ud1800e182	If the Pension Commission's adjustment to this model is adopted, it will result in a savings of approximately 20 pst. of the expenses of the population in 2050. The main emphasis of these savings is that of persons with lower and medium incomes. They're actually going to get reduced pensions, like they're being added up here. I would like to ask the Minister of Finance the following questions: does the Minister of Finance think that there is a good solution for those pensioners who actually have the least of them to take the biggest bend in this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-14.ana.ud1800e189	The Government has not yet taken a position on the various proposals of the Pension Commission. It may be appropriate to look at the distribution effects between different groups. But I remember that the Commission also has proposals that mean that those with a long working time, i.e. those who got out early, as opposed to those like that. have studied, can get out of it at the life-cycle performance that is now being taken into account. The number of supplementary care points is increasing. It's also an advantage, not least for women. But I'm a little surprised that the question is asked by a representative of the Progress Party, who will make everyone in Norway the minimum pensioner. In a TV debate yesterday, to which reference is made, the representative Siv Jensen gave the impression that there was something else that was the case, but in the Pension Commission's position, on page 14, it says: ‘Possession Commissioner Ytterhorn’ – representing the Progress Party – ‘includes a pension scheme with equal social security pensions for all at the level of today’s minimum pension in social security.’ In any case, it is not a better distribution mechanism contained in that proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-14.ana.ud1800e204	Morten Lund – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-14.ana.ud1800e207	The central party wants a wide-ranging settlement in the Stortinget on pension reform. It is then important that what the Government presents, also takes inward the concerns expressed, for example: from the trade movement. Because it's going to have to be an acceptance of the trade union movement for what's going to be the solution, for it to be a settlement. Like SV, I am concerned about the tone with which the concerns were met in yesterday's debate. It is necessary that the Government now receives input from all those who have opinions about this, and that they be judged seriously. I am concerned about the progress that the Government has made. This is especially about young people's pensions. It is a complicated matter for politicians too, but especially for young people. They need time to get into this. My question is about the government, after the signals that have arrived, still remains on the quick progress in this matter that was signaled yesterday.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-14.ana.ud1800e214	The question has a crazy premise. The government does not make up for a particularly fast progress, so that young people do not understand, read or express themselves on the setting, rather on the contrary. We're adding up to an extended consultation time, 4 months. My impression is that young people, youth organisations and other stakeholders in this group have the absolute ability to get into the position and are already doing it well. We want to focus on the input that comes, of course also from the trade movement, but we also want to focus on what is actually in the setting, not least from the Central Party representative, who has a lot of views that I share, and which I also hope the Stortinge share in the last round. In addition, the representative of the Central Party also belongs to the majority on a couple of contentious points. That's very interesting, I think.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-14.ana.ud1800e221	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-14.ana.ud1800e224	I also have a question for the Minister of Finance. It is also linked to the pension challenge. The situation presented by the Pension Commission yesterday shows that, in order to meet the pension costs in the future, it is necessary to propose tightening in relation to the current pension scheme. Nevertheless, it appears that greater payments will be necessary to meet the responsibilities of the public interest. In this picture, the Government’s promises of tax relief – which, as we know, always give the most to those who have the most – appear to be rather meaningless. My question is therefore: isn't it time for the Government to recognise that it is wrong to promise tax relief at the same time that there are restrictions on pensions in order to meet the costs?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-14.ana.ud1800e233	With respect to reporting, I think you see a certain shift in the time horizons here. The Pension Commission, where the representative Hill-Marta Solberg is a member, and whose description of the need for full support I share, proposes measures to implement from 2010. The Pension Commission itself has pointed out that this proposal is insufficient to ensure that the share of old-age pensions in GDP will not continue to increase sharply over the years to come. It underlines the need for increased economic growth to bear future pension costs, in addition to the estimates made by the Pension Commission. I see, among other things: The Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection's proposal for tax relief in that perspective. Their proposals are precisely justified by the fact that this will make Norway a more competitive country. They will make our export industry more competitive on the basis of tax provisions, not least in the field of property taxes. I read in today's newspaper an interview with one of our honoraries in the competitive industry, namely shipowner Wilhelm Wilhelmsen, who just underlines the concern that the tax system in Norway does not evolve as it happens in the rest of Europe, and the competitiveness of Norwegian shipping – in the sense of Norwegian maritime operations – in that perspective. I share that view.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-14.ana.ud1800e240	I don't think there's any time shift here. The problem is that the tax reliefs that this government has suffered and that they still want to go on with are permanent loss of income for the community, which is struggling to meet the pension obligations. It is quite obvious that if we are to succeed with the pension challenge in the future, it is important that people get to work, and we need to avoid ever-increasing early retirement. Then we need a working life where there is room for older workers. In view of these long-term challenges we see, my question to the Minister of Finance is: Will the Government now seriously and fully prioritise the work of an inclusive working life and remove the threats, as we have heard in a number of recent years, to terminate the agreement on an inclusive working life?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-14.ana.ud1800e247	That question has already been answered, with the agreement on inclusive working for the second half of the four-year period being renewed. There is a desire from the Government that the IA Agreement should produce better effects than it has so far. I also share the representative’s concern that working life, and it is primarily a responsibility for the owners and managers of businesses, does not sufficiently address – and also provides opportunities – the need to step down and adapt older workers. There's something the Pension Commission stresses. It can be regulated not only by economic regulations, incentives and other things, but also by changing attitudes in the labour market. It's a task that we should be in common about.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-14.ana.ud1800e253	There will be follow-up questions – Olav Gunnar Ballo.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-14.ana.ud1800e256	I noticed that the Minister of Finance in his reply to the representative, Djupedal, used the concept of symbolism or symbol values about the costs of leaders and the costs that the government has for it, and that it was important from the symbols to keep costs down. Now you can see that the Pension Commission is adding up to generally lower pensions. They add that you have to work longer to achieve better conditions. In parallel with this, you can see that in Health South you have granted pension schemes that cost approx. $12 million. Total kr. It's equal to 160 hip operations. For example, the director of the Rikshospitalate will receive 5.9 million from such a pension scheme. kr. That will be the cost of the scheme. Does the Minister of Finance view this as symbols, or does the Minister of Finance think that 160 hip operations actually also mean something to most people in terms of spending money differently than giving higher pensions to those who have the most of them?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-14.ana.ud1800e265	I fully agree that 160 hip operations mean a lot to the 160. But the question that is now being asked is taken out of a different context. The question raised in the previous debate concerned the symbolic effects of two top-level pension schemes on the future of the population. Then it is probably right to say that the economic challenges of popular fear in a 40-50-year perspective are not saved by some top leaders taking on sense and reinventing some of the demands for pensions, but that is important. By the expression symbol value, I don't mean anything derogatory. I believe, in fact, that setting a good example also means something in a political debate. I also record that the pension contracts concluded in the health sector are controversial. The size of the budget is notified of the decisions taken by the Administrative Board, and the Minister of Health has announced that he will have a review of this, not least of the relationship between decisions and the responsibilities of the Administrative Board.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-14.ana.ud1800e272	Before we move on to the next follow-up question, the President will only recall that, according to the Rules of Procedure, follow-up questions will have a factual direct connection with the main question raised. Ranveig Frøiland – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-14.ana.ud1800e277	I understand that the finance minister thinks that there is room for tax relief in spite of the fact that there will be very large payments from the people's security that are not covered up. My question also goes to inclusive working life. Women need to be at work, as everyone else is at work. Then it's those who involuntarily have part-time jobs -- there's a lot of people in the public sector who don't have a full-time job today. If they are to live on their retirement when that time comes, they must have been in full employment. Would the government be offensive to go ahead and do something about these involuntary part-time settings? It's a fact that a lot of them can't live on their job today.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-14.ana.ud1800e286	In the first part, on tax relief, I would say that the Pension Commission's suspension is an overall emphasis on the need to stimulate the Norwegian economy, so that in the future we can bear increased pension costs, even the increased pension costs that arise if you base the Pension Commission's proposal. This is therefore the stimulus through, for example: tax relief is necessary. I think it might be well to demand that the Government should have a response to all parts of the content of the Commission's individual proposal after one day, taking into account that the Workers' Party has notified that they need at least one year to come to their conclusions, and that one national meeting is included in this schedule. But I would suggest, as the head of the Pension Commission said yesterday, that it is a little demanding of a pension scheme that it should correct the inequalities that are existing in society, and the lack of equality that remains in our working life, not least in relation to part-time workers. I think it is extra demanding to distinguish between voluntary and involuntary part-time.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-14.ana.ud1800e293	Harald T. Nesvik – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-14.ana.ud1800e296	If the Finance Minister had read the whole Commission's position, he would probably have seen, too, cf. reply to me instead, that the Progress Party has presented an overall model, which goes not only on basic pension insurance at the bottom, but actually also on individual-based solutions, preferably in cooperation with the employer, in order to finance individual pensions, where the tax system has to be used. As far as funding is concerned, I would like to ask a question to the Minister of Finance, all the time when the suspension of the Pension Commission entails 20 pst. reduction in government pension expenditure by 2050. So we're talking about 20 pst. reduction in relation to the increase that is coming. The parameters such as is the share of the labour force in work and any changes to the already established welfare systems used for the estimation of economic growth in the suspension of the Pension Commission, but cannot other measures be put in place to reduce public expenditure and to save public welfare?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-14.ana.ud1800e303	Using the term ‘individual-based solutions’ in addition to popular security is another way of expressing that you can take out private pension insurance if you want to. There's nothing new, everybody can do that today, and then you get to pay them yourself. I'm a little surprised that the Progress Party stands for a model that is a strengthening of the progressiveness of our tax system. Everyone is going to pay a fixed percentage, but get one amount back, and what you pay in is not going to be in proportion to what you get out at all. It's a somewhat surprising model from a party that claims to be liberal, at least in economic policy. Well, there are other ways to get money into the social security system. This has been illustrated by the Commission, for example: by saying that cutting off all public expenditure on kindergartens, child allowances and cash support would be equivalent to the constraints proposed by the Commission. I do not think that is the current proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-14.ana.ud1800e310	Marit Arnstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-14.ana.ud1800e313	It becomes absolutely necessary for the Government to try to achieve broad settlements around the pension scheme in the years to come, not for the government’s own part, but for the pension scheme’s part. Without broad agreement, a pension scheme will not be provided with a sustainable pension system that will last for decades, and that is the objective, if you are to have a sustainable pension change. That's why it's probably wise for the government to plan on hearing the counter-conceptions and questions that come from here, and take them with the sufficient seriousness. Some of us believe that it is impossible to hold a debate on the pension system without also looking at the issue of distribution and distribution effects. I understand that the Minister of Finance believes that what can be done on the distribution side through the pension system is limited, and if the Minister of Finance believes that what a person can do on the distribution effect through the pension system is limited, I also need to be able to repeat the question: what will one do in other areas to improve the distribution effect – through the tax system, through an inclusive working life or other arrangements? How does the government think in that context?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-14.ana.ud1800e321	I just want to say in general that I agree with the premises on the question, on broad settlements, and that it is necessary to listen to counter-conceptions. But so far, anticonceptions have only gone against individual proposals, not promoting alternatives. In the further process, I expect that employee organisations will also promote alternatives. Then, of course, we have to listen to it. It is well possible that the Commission's proposals can be replaced in some areas by other and better proposals. The very wide-ranging question of pursuing a policy of adapting working life to older workers, which makes it increasingly possible for women to apply for jobs that do not provide reduced pensions as a result of having less wages throughout their lives, is such a comprehensive question that I think it is difficult to answer in half a minute, but it points to the agreement on inclusive working life as part of it and the whole arrangement of equality policy as the other part. But it takes time to change attitudes, and the good point of view that the Commission stands for, unanimous, that there should be a connection between income in life and retirement when you go off, is a main point of view I share.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-14.ana.ud1800e326	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-14.ana.ud1800e329	I also have a question for the Minister of Finance. After 1 January, the Swedish can also use the so-called EU quota system, which means that they can now travel to Denmark or Germany and drive 230 litres of alcohol straight home in the living room without being afraid of being taken into customs. Several Norwegians have discovered this possibility and have now begun to establish so-called depot just above the Swedish border in order to gradually transport them home to Norway. Right-wing fiscal spokesman, Jan Tore Sanner, actually came into a debate with me with the following serious claim, that the Northmen who were injured in establishing such a depot, they had an alcohol problem. However, a much more serious claim was in fact that Norway could only experience the same quota if Norway became a member of the EU. Does the Minister of Finance agree with Jan Tore Sanner on this? Is it not true that Norway can change its quota provisions just when it had to suit Norwegian politicians – if we want to, then? It is not certain that the Government will. As an alternative, we can cut off the alcohol taxes, as the Sem-Declaration government has said, but as we have seen so far very little.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-14.ana.ud1800e334	The President will suggest that alcohol problems can be of both collective and individual nature.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-14.ana.ud1800e337	I could actually answer yes to the specific question that was asked. I share Jan Tore Sanner's view in that debate. You can be so busy. I think the themes we have highlighted in the first part of this spontaneous questioning session are more important than the need to establish depots in Sweden if you have a cabin in Strömstad, based on legal imports from Denmark, so that you gradually take it over to Norway through shuttle traffic. I think Sanner had a point, that you have problems other than customs. This government, since it was also a matter of concern, has gradually reduced the cost of alcohol in the three budgets we have submitted. The fact that the Progress Party is not satisfied, I have to take note, but I actually believe the most important contribution to reducing border trade, and much indicates that it is now stagnated, partly also reduced, is the weakening of the krone price, which has made the kind of border trade less profitable.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-14.ana.ud1800e346	Not all other issues in this society are immaterial even though we have now received the Pension Commission report. I share the view of the Minister of Finance that this is an important question, but we should not stop debating everything else for that reason. The Minister of Finance must hoard as much as he likes about alcohol policy, but it is a fact that the alcohol policy of the sitting government creates frustration, irritability, in the plain North, precisely because one does not understand why it should be so to the degrees of great differences in small Norway and the rest of Europe. A few years ago, when the Minister of Finance was a prime minister, he had quite different views on this; he even proposed in every alternative state budget, the Right, a sharp reduction in alcohol taxes in order to harmonise this with the taxes in our neighbouring country. Why does the Minister of Finance no longer believe this?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-14.ana.ud1800e351	It could be related to his aging, maybe.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-14.ana.ud1800e354	Yes, the president speaks from experience. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-14.ana.ud1800e361	It's okay to stick to the Pension Commission.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-14.ana.ud1800e364	It also has to do with me being the spokesman for a government made up of parties where there are different views about this. I haven't regretted the alcohol policy. I have also not hesitated in my first answer, but I have pointed out that I think it is perhaps a slightly up-to-date problem that the Danish change in the quota for beer, wine and spirits would lead to the Nordics operating violently and establishing depots in Sweden. There is no doubt that reduced alcohol taxes and increased quotas in our neighbouring countries also lead to increased pressure on Norwegian alcohol taxes. I have recognised that on several occasions, and I believe that it is also a long way to go that we have reduced the fees somewhat. But I think maybe it's an exaggeration of this problem. As the representative points out, the real pressure on Norway would come if Sweden were to reduce its alcohol taxes in line with Denmark, which the Swedish government so far has no plans to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-14.ana.ud1800e369	It will be an exclusive follow-up question – Per Erik Monsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-14.ana.ud1800e373	I would like to recall what the representative Per-Kristian Foss, in charge of the Right Financial Fraction, wrote in the financial position in the autumn of 2000: ‘... the high level of the levy on spirits, wine and beer is a contributing factor in the large commercial leakage to Sweden and Denmark, as well as in large-scale smuggling and illicit domestic fuel production. These members will therefore propose to reduce the alcohol levy by a total of 17,5 pst. from 1 July 2001.’ Further: ‘Sweden increased its alcohol import quotas from 1 July 2000 from the rest of the EU. In addition, Sweden has been required by the EU to ensure equal treatment of beers and pigs. This means that the fees on weak wines are likely to be reduced by approx. 10 dollars per month. bottle per bottle 1 July 2001. Together with other adjustments to the Swedish level of charges, this will lead to increased imports of alcohol from Sweden to Norway.’ Does the Minister of Finance still have the same problems with the Swedish tax level compared to the Norwegian level, and what does the Minister of Finance think should be done from the Norwegian side when dramatic changes have now taken place in Sweden?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-14.ana.ud1800e390	I guess I've answered the question. I think it was an excellent quote, and in particular I think the expression ‘a contributing cause’ should be emphasised. Illegal imports, i.e. smuggling, as a result of large price differences are still there, but they are significantly reduced by the fact that the wine monopoly, even in Eastfold, reports a rather significant increase in the turnover of special spirits. It's a result of two relationships. One is that the price difference as a result of the difference in fees has been somewhat reduced, but I also believe that the situation has been significantly alleviated, in order to use that expression without being misunderstood, by the import and sale of toxic spirits in parts of Norway that we saw examples last year. People simply dare not buy illegally anymore, and it is a good effect even though it followed some tragedies in the wake of this. In general, the question asked by Siv Jensen about what can be done to adapt to the EU. The simplest answer to this is that EU members adapt to the EU in a completely automatic way, but then one has to take a stand on the EU issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-14.ana.ud1800e397	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-14.ana.ud1800e400	My question goes to the Minister for the Environment. Climate challenges are on the line. Norway is at a disadvantage in relation to commitments under the Kyoto Agreement. These are headlines that can still be read in the newspapers. The weather is expected to get wilder, wetter and warmer, and many different species are threatened by climate change. This is just the back carpet. In this context, I will focus on short-range food. That's how we import more and more food into this country. The Worldwatch Institute has conducted a survey that shows that the food at a typical dinner table in the United Kingdom has traveled, on average, 2,500 km from farmer to table, i.e. 250 km. Most of this plate could be produced locally. The figures also apply to Norway. The transport of this food leads to 650 times as much greenhouse gas emissions as food with local ingredients. What will the Minister for the Environment do to address such a practice, which is both energy-depleting and environmentally reprehensible?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-14.ana.ud1800e407	On several occasions it is repeated that Norway is at a disadvantage in relation to its climate commitments. It's not going to be right even if you repeat it multiple times. We have had an increase in Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions by 5 pst. since 1990. We can increase them by 1 pst, but at the same time, of course, we can use these mechanisms contained in the Kyoto agreement – you can buy allowances, and you can also invest in developing countries. Over the period 2001–2002, Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions fell by 2.5 pst. Show me the country in the world that has as strong climate policy instruments as Norway! We have electricity tax, we have CO2 tax, petrol tax, etc. The point is that the growth that has come to Norway in relation to greenhouse gas emissions is due to the growth that we have had on the continental shelf. This is because we have now become an energy supplier to the rest of Europe in terms of gas. We export gas that replaces nuclear power plants, which replace coal power plants. Then we get these emissions on our greenhouse gas accounts. Nevertheless, we have significantly lower growth in our emissions than many EU countries do, which do not export energy. Like having some of the strongest climate policy instruments in the world, we also have some of the most powerful instruments in relation to Norwegian agriculture and in terms of subsidies. We compete with Switzerland and Japan in terms of transferring a lot to the agricultural industry. So in Norway we already have a lot of measures to ensure Norwegian food production. Some who are concerned with development policy issues would probably also argue that these measures we have in relation to Norwegian food production actually also prevent some of the poorest countries, not least middle-income countries, from exporting what they can export — food.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-14.ana.ud1800e414	I thank you for the answer, but I think it's going to be very special when the minister talks about how much less growth we have than other countries. We're a rich country, and we're also above our quota, so it's wrong to talk the way he does here. He just pushes away what's really problematic. Besides, I have to say, I think it's going to be very special when he deals with agricultural policy here. It's actually going to be pathetic to answer such an important issue as this, by referring to a narrow part of our party program. Transporting food is one of the things that we can easily do, and it seems as a hair traveler for most people that one is going to send food half the world around. The Minister for the Environment is also central in the global context of sustainable development. We know from the Johannesburg Summit that trade was not an overarching environment. So I really have to ask the minister in the end whether he thinks that transporting food half the earth around harmony with the term sustainable development.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-14.ana.ud1800e423	Only in relation to this growth in Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions. The growth we have seen in Norway is due to the growth of the base. The growth is simply due to the international export of gas and oil. In Norway, the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions is, in fact, much more demanding than in many other countries. When 99 pst. electricity in a country is produced from renewable resources, such as hydropower, it is much harder to reduce. We cannot do as some other countries do, put down two ancient coal-fired power stations and then meet our Kyoto commitments. Even with the challenge of being Europe's energy exporter of gas in the years to come, we are committed to the Kyoto Protocol's obligations. It is a cornerstone of Norwegian climate policy. We've also said that when we can't do it at home, we can use the quotas, and we can also invest in developing countries. It was a prerequisite for the ratification of the Kyoto Protocol in its time, and it costs one sixth of the cost of action in Norway. So you can do six times as much for the climate in u-land as at home.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-14.ana.ud1800e428	There will be three follow-up questions – first Heidi Sørensen.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-14.ana.ud1800e431	The Minister for the Environment is expected to take part in a world championship in an explanation when he explains the increases in Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions. Then he makes a mistake at one point: it is not just the emissions of petroleum gas that have increased since 1990. Half of that increase is due to the Minister of Transport – I would say – or the transport sector, because we are moving more and more. That's at the heart of this question: if we're going to combine a food policy in such a way that it almost becomes a prerequisite that it should have traveled as far as possible. It is also a bad business policy. We now experience, for example: in Finnmark that trawlers that take cod in the Barents Sea no longer send the cod to local processing. The cod is sent to China, and then sent back to Europe, in order to be sold cheaper on the Norwegian market. Does the Minister for the Environment think that this is an example of sustainability in a nutshell?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-14.ana.ud1800e436	The president will suggest that the world championship may be taking a strong hold. I guess it's a circuit championship this is all about.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-14.ana.ud1800e439	I do not think we should be so self-absorbed in Norway that we are going to produce a growth in Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions of 5 p.p., starting with 1990, as bad. From 2001 to 2002, we had a decrease of 2.5 pst. Given that most of our electricity comes from hydropower, and that we have a very strong growth, since we export gas, I think a 5 pst. growth is actually moderate. We have also implemented and will implement policies that cost-effectively reduce other greenhouse gas emissions in Norway. No one's gone as far as we are. Parts of the Storting have even criticised the Government for, among other things, have been called upon to impose climate policy measures in relation to the process industry, which is going beyond any other country. I come back to that case in front of Stortinget. In the case of free trade, I have not experienced that SV has opposed it in relation to food. When I was sitting at Stortinget, I actually felt in the finance committee that SV had very many constructive suggestions that developing countries, and not least middle-income countries, which today do not enter the food market in Norway, would be allowed to export. We started our prosperity development by starting to export what we could export, but today we keep many u-countries outside of what they can really compete with. This must be a new policy on the part of the SV in that case.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-14.ana.ud1800e447	Marit Arnstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-14.ana.ud1800e450	We know that it is not easy to reduce climate emissions in Norway with the Norwegian energy structure. What we are calling for is, in a way, the willingness to contribute in the various areas, including nationally, in reducing climate problems. What's being pointed out then is that seas moving towards more environmentally friendly transport are increasing transport in such a way that it itself increases pollution. Today Norwegian fish are transported from Norway to China and back to the European market again. In itself, pollution is a problem. Free trade is also becoming a postulate in such a way that new environmental problems, new problems related to climate change, are also created. Instead of polishing about free trade and poor countries, as we can do in another arena, this is our challenge to the Minister for the Environment: Is the Minister for the Environment and the Government concerned with the issue that Worldwatch has raised here, and what will they do in this case to make this part of the climate picture less problematic?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-14.ana.ud1800e457	Whoever is guilty, and then mixing several elements into this discussion, I will not comment. But I've been asking several of these questions wondering what you really want to achieve. Now, with the contributions of the representative Arnstad, we have been told that the Centre Party understands that we are doing a good job in terms of limiting Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions. It seems that transport costs resulting from food exports in relation to fish and agriculture can be reduced, and there is no surprising view on the part of the Centre Party. The government is a member of the WTO. We are not least dependent on the possibility of exporting fish. We're exporting fish for $35 billion a year to the world. If you start to argue strongly against the fact that agricultural products are to be transported, I think you can handle yourself very quickly in the door even in relation to the fish export. If we're willing to export Norwegian fish to Japan and China, I think we need to figure out that they can export their traditional agricultural products to us.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-14.ana.ud1800e464	Steinar Bastesen - for the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-14.ana.ud1800e467	I have a question for the Environment Minister that he may not expect, but that was in the introduction to the main question. It goes on that there is no one who can say with certainty that there is some man-made climate change. No scientist around the world has said that it is man-made climate change. No one has found the final evidence. We read in the newspapers that the sun is "sint". Yes, there have been several explosions on the sun. Could the sun have anything to do with climate change? And the sea, could it have anything to say? And then the question is, what does the Ministry of the Environment do to research what's happening in the world with the sun, and with the sea? I am aware that the protest industry will be unemployed if so, so perhaps the Ministry of the Environment is not taking it seriously and is researching enough?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-14.ana.ud1800e476	The President will suggest that this was a significant extension of the perspective of the main issue, but leaves to the Minister for the Environment to take that challenge on a tight footing.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-14.ana.ud1800e479	I thank you for your trust. On the issue of climate change, the UN has set up its own Climate Panel, consisting of many thousands of researchers. Their conclusion over a number of years has been that there is every reason to believe that man-made climate change is taking place. But there can also be variations in relation to the absorption of CO2 in the ocean, there can be variations also on the sun. But what man can influence is therefore the man-made greenhouse gas emissions. There's little we can do with the sun, at least so far. Even if you want to send people to Mars, it's clear that it's a factor that we can't influence. With regard to climate change, the Intergovernmental Panel says that we have every reason to believe that climate change can change by 1 to 5 degrees in the next hundred years. So it's as much as it's changed since the last ice age, 10,000 to 15,000 years ago. And the tough climate we've seen, for example. in Europe in recent years, is an illustration of what will become more of if the actual man-made climate change occurs even more strongly. I can't prove that this has its cause in climate change, but that's the kind of weather we get more of if we don't control this.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-14.ana.ud1800e488	Then we go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-14.ana.ud1800e491	My question also goes to the Minister for the Environment. It is becoming increasingly difficult to travel in the beach zone, despite the fact that there are construction bans. This happens because more and more permits are being granted to build where more people should have the opportunity to both bathe and walk. There are many figures over several years now that confirm this, without any impression of the Minister for the Environment. By January 12th this year, we were able to read in Today's Business that Hordaland is crushing all the counties of the country in terms of beach-soon construction. The Progress Party municipality of Os is among the worst, and in Austevoll it becomes yes on 93 pst. of all applications. In the opinion of the Workers' Party, we have a practice here that undermines the whole law on construction bans. Does the Minister for the Environment, as he said earlier, mean that this is under control?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-14.ana.ud1800e500	First, I have to be allowed to bring some heartaches: that I have to continue the same law that the Workers' Party has promoted in this area for many decades. Since 1965, we have had a decision that it is not initially to be built in the 100 meter belt, but that it can be granted a derogation in special cases. If you have a cabin there and have twins, you are allowed to build on a cabin. It is also such that you can tear the cabin and set up a new one. I think we're going to have to analyze a little bit more closely what's hiding behind these numbers, and that's why I have to get this information folder out. We've had the biggest pressure along the Oslofjorden and down to Sørlanden. The last numbers I've got, and which are quite interesting in this way, show that along the Oslo soil and the southern coast, it's the small measures that now dominate. In the second half of 2002, only 22 new buildings were approved along the Oslofjorden, the most exposed area, i.e. the coastline from the Swedish border to and including Telemark. Of these 22 new buildings, 13 are replacement buildings. You've torn a barley and you've set up another one that might be better adapted to the plan situation as well. Nine are new buildings, and what we don't know enough about, and which we have to go closer to, these nine are new buildings. They may also be small because of a family increase. It doesn't have to be a new cabin. So in terms of these numbers from Hordaland, we don't know if there are real new buildings, whether there are actual superstructures on existing cabins, or whether there are replacement cabins that are set up. Now I want to look a little bit closer at the figures from Hordaland before I draw any conclusions, and also look at how we're going to report this so that we can figure out what's building on it, what's new, and what's replacement building.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-14.ana.ud1800e507	I feel that we have an environmental protection minister who minimizes the fact that it has actually become much more difficult for people to travel in the beach zone along the whole of Oslo soil towards the Swedish border and also in Hordaland. It is not right, as the Minister for the Environment here says, that the Workers' Party has not taken the initiative to change this law. For over a year we have had proposals in Stortinget to change the law, so that it will be more difficult to grant exemptions for construction. SV has supported it, while the government parties and the Progress Party have opposed it. I experience it so that Børge Brende, who represents the Right, as everyone knows, is here on the property side, against the All-man's right. This case is about which side you are on, and I should say that for an Environment Minister, in fact, the most important thing is to protect all human rights. It is such that while analysing and investigating the Minister for the Environment, it is becoming increasingly difficult for people to move in the coastal zone. The Labour Party considers this to be very unfortunate. It's just so simple that Environment Minister Børge Burnde can take a trip out in the summer and see what it looks like, how difficult it is for people to be able to land a boat and go on a trip, or take a bath, for that matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-14.ana.ud1800e519	The President did not see any additional questions asked, but it is possible to answer the question that was not asked.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-14.ana.ud1800e522	Like the representative Brustad, I also think it is nice to be on the road – even in the summer. With regard to movement in the beach zone, I have never said that the Workers' Party has not made proposals in the last two years of the Stortingen on changes. What I underlined was that when the Workers' Party put in government, there was never a proposed amendment to the law when it was about the local authorities' ability to make reasonable exemptions in the hundred-meter belt. What was the initial question was whether the Minister for the Environment has coverage to say that the situation is under control. In the most vulnerable areas, which I've already talked about, the interior of Oslofjord and down to Sørlanden, there have been 22 new buildings in six months, where the majority were replacement buildings, and I have to say that I actually think that is a situation under control. But that there has been a lot of expansion of the Norwegian beach zone over many, many decades, also with governments other than this, it is a fact, expansions that also represent fences, but of course are to the delight of those who have cabins there.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-14.ana.ud1800e529	There will be follow-up questions – Hallgeir H. Langeland.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-14.ana.ud1800e532	I believe that the Minister for the Environment should now also begin to move a part of the coastal zone. The Minister for the Environment is very good at going to the mountains and cultivating the different national parks to get an idea of what it is like to do outdoor business there, but in the coastal zone, reality is quite different. Now one can read statistics in one way or another, but if one moves in the beach zone, either here in this area or also in Rogaland and Hordaland, where Sylvia Brustad was inside, one will see that it is now very complicated to get ahead of most people. That is why it is quite correct, as it was said, that the Minister for the Environment does not want to see the reality in view. He wants there to be a dispensation policy where 93 pst. dispensation requests are granted. That means that he accepts a reduction in the rights of all people. Isn't that right, Minister of Environmental Protection?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-14.ana.ud1800e539	First I just have to establish that I don't think this problem is related to how much you move in the beach zone or one. Like many others, I think it's very nice to be in the beach zone in the summer, and that you should also have the opportunity to enjoy outdoor life in the beach zone. Therefore, not least the country has entered and purchased important and large areas that can be laid out as natural pearls. Now I always think reading statistics is a good starting point. The fact that you sit in the beach zone and feel that there are fences is now your case. But I have explained through the examples I referred to in my reply to Brustad, because we actually have the situation under control, but for many decades in Norway it has been chosen to accept construction in the beach zone. So now there are 350,000 families in Norway who also have cabins. There are quite a number of people who have actually also enjoyed these cabins, so I hope that the Workers' Party and SV are not to be understood so that people do not enjoy the outdoor life through the use of a cabin.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-14.ana.ud1800e546	Rolf Terje Klungland – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-14.ana.ud1800e549	I think it would have been an advantage for the debate on the environment that one had stopped blaming each other, and maybe had tried to look a little bit ahead. The whole intention of the Workers' Party in relation to the beach zone is that when the beach zone is extended – if there are 22 buildings per year – it is the building that will lie there forever, and one has locked up the beach zone problem in it. The Minister for the Environment is trying to minimize that problem, while the president of the Progress Party in Us says: ‘We are raw in development’. The Minister for the Environment likes to be ahead on environmental issues. Does he like to be running good for the Progress Party on this environmental issue?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-14.ana.ud1800e561	The President, based on his professional background, will allow himself to draw into doubt that there are huts built for eternity.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-14.ana.ud1800e564	I very much agree with Mr Klungland's point that we should stop blaming each other. I think that's a good starting point. What I have pointed out, and which is necessary, is that it has its cause in that, when you were in government, the Workers' Party never promoted any bill that refuses to grant exemptions in the beach zone. The point is that my starting point is that municipal politicians are sensible, and if you give exemptions, there may also be good reasons for it sometimes, while there are sometimes not so good reasons for it. And then you have to take a closer look at it. One of the reasons why you can give a derogation is that you want to set up a different cabin than the one that stands there, which is better suited to the terrain. With the Workers' Party's new legal ban, it will not be an opening for it. If you have a cabin in the beach zone, shouldn't you be allowed to build on the 15 m2 if you have a family increase? Is it especially social? If you want to turn an old industrial area into a residential complex, isn't it a sensible transformation that will then upgrade the beach zone and actually make it more accessible than an old abandoned industrial facility?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-14.ana.ud1800e573	The President will allow himself to recall that speaking time is available to be respected. Øyvind Korsberg – to the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-14.ana.ud1800e578	It is not new that the Workers' Party is making a lot of noise with regard to the problem, as they mention, in the beach zone, but in which the Minister for the Environment is quite right, there is no proposal from the Workers' Party. However, we in the Progress Party have promoted quite a number of proposals, because we want to safeguard the interests of the private landowner. We also want to respect local democracy, and therefore we have made a number of proposals that the municipalities themselves should be involved in deciding whether to build it or not to build it. It's the way that those who wear the shoe know where it's pressing. What is also important to us is to have respect for local democracy, to have these decisions made locally. Will the Council of State take the initiative to listen more and more to local democracy, to participate locally and to make important decisions for its own region and territory?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-14.ana.ud1800e588	As I said in my previous answer, I believe that the local authorities have a lot of competence in terms of land-use planning and land-use decisions. You know your municipality. It's not like that, when local politicians see a beach zone, they say, "No, we're going to build again with cabins here." They balance these questions against each other. But now we're talking about the whole beach zone and not just the 100 meter belt. The starting point is clear that in the 100 metre belt, no new construction shall be required if no derogation is granted or if no such change is made by regulation. I think the practice that has been put into practice today makes sense. If it is the case that national interests are at stake, the state would be able to raise an objection. But as I said, much of what happens in the beach zone is conversions, replacement buildings, transformations of old industrial plants – something you shouldn't say no to. That's why a law ban would be too square.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-14.ana.ud1800e593	The President has to note that the regulatory time for the oral questioning has run out, and that we are unfortunately not able to get the advertised question from Kenneth Svendsen. On the other hand, it's never so bad that it's not good for anything. This means that in today's oral Question Time all the main questions have been asked by female representatives, which is probably considered to be a historical event.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-14.ana.ud1800e599	There will be some changes to the list of questions set out, and the President will refer in this context to the overview distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 1, from the representative of Trine Skei Grande to the Minister of Justice, will be raised by the representative of May Britt Vihovde. Question 7, from the representative Marit Nybakk to the Minister for Development, has been transferred to the Minister for Foreign Affairs who is directing him. However, the question will be answered by the Minister for Development on behalf of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who has been away. Question 8, from the representative Finn Kristian Marthinsen to the Minister for Children and Family Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs, who will direct him. At the request of the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs, the question is moved and answered before question 20, to be answered by the same Council of State. Question 9, from the representative Rolf Rikvam to the Minister for Education and Research, has been withdrawn. Question 12, tabled by Mr Inge Ryan to the Minister of Labour and Administration, lapses because the questioner is not present. Question 14, from the representative of Mr Harald T. Nesvik to the Minister for Food and Trade, is postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left. In addition, question 21 was addressed in response to question 18, and question 22 disappeared, as the questioner was not present.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-14.ana.ud1800e623	This question, from the representative of Trine Skei Grande to the Minister of Justice, will be raised by the representative of May Britt Vihovde.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-14.ana.ud1800e626	I would like to ask the following questions to the Minister for Justice: ‘Heating home winter time is an essential welfare asset in Norway. Some families are in a very difficult situation if energy suppliers shut down in winter due to non-payment. In Sweden and Finland, this is regulated in such a way that, as a general rule, electricity cannot be cut off during the four winter months. What will the Council of State do to ensure greater consumer protection for private electricity customers?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-14.ana.ud1800e635	In the preparation of the Consumer Purchases Act, the Ministry of Justice considered that there were insufficient grounds for deciding whether there should be mandatory consumer protection rules on electricity contracts and that a working party should therefore be set up to further address the issue. The Judicial Committee agreed to this. Against this background, on 5 December 2002 a Working Party led by the Ministry of Justice was set up to assess whether electricity protection rules should be provided and, where appropriate, where such rules should be placed. The rules applicable to the closure of consumer facilities are one of the most important issues to be addressed by the group. The working group shall submit its report as planned at the end of the month of January/February of this year. I will then send the report to the hearing and prepare the proposition in the matter. In my view, there are several points where there is a need to strengthen and clarify the legal position of consumers vis-à-vis energy companies. This legislative work will therefore be given a high priority.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-14.ana.ud1800e642	I thank the Council of State for your answer. Electric power is actually no luxury goods in Norway. It's a necessity of life. Today, it is harder for a supplier to pick up a TV for which it is not paid, than it is to be closed by the stream. I am pleased that the Council of State says that he wants to strengthen the consumer's protection in this, and that he prioritises these questions of change. My follow-up question is: Does the Council agree with me that when there is a closure of installations, there must be mandatory rules on conditions for the implementation of closures, since shutting down power can actually lead to a crisis for some families, and that when power is a vital asset, it cannot be compared to other consumer goods? Would the Council of State like to look at the Swedish and Finnish rules to strengthen consumer protection?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-14.ana.ud1800e649	What circumstances may need to be regulated, I will not decide until the working group has submitted its report and it has been at the hearing. But I will already point out three areas where there may be a need for stronger consumer protection: Firstly, I believe there is particular reason to consider the rules to apply when closing the consumer's facilities due to payment mismatches, as the representative is concerned about. A closure will often appear very dramatic to the consumer. There is therefore a great deal of reason for the need to provide mandatory legal provisions on the conditions for the implementation of the closure. Another area to be assessed is the compensation rules to be applied in the event of financial losses caused by power interruptions or voltage failure by consumers. The Consumer Purchases Act strengthens sellers' liability for defects. There is reason to consider whether the liability of the transmission system companies should also be strengthened. Finally, I would like to point out that there was a reason to strengthen and streamline Elklagen subject through legal regulation. The Consumer Council receives a large number of complaints about the energy companies. Not everyone is connected to Elklagen subject, which means that consumers do not have the opportunity to receive quick and cheap treatment. By means of a regulatory regulation of, inter alia, The Elklagen topic can be ensured that all energy companies are connected to this topic.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-14.ana.ud1800e663	I have the following questions for the Minister of Justice: ‘21. In December 2003, a car theft in Fromland ended with the shooting and killing of a person. The matter is deeply tragic for all the parties involved. For a long time it has built up a real anger, fear and frustration among the inhabitants of the municipality of Fromland over increasing crime targeting law-abiding citizens. Will the Council of State provide good advice on how police, local politicians and citizens can cooperate more actively to better prevent and stop the increasing crime in smaller communities such as Fromand?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-14.ana.ud1800e672	I will first be allowed to thank you for this question. The representative, Andersen, is concerned with a very central issue, which is the interaction between police, other public authorities and the public in order to prevent criminal activity. I would also like to express my understanding of the uncertainty that people in Fromand have to feel. For any community, such events are very uplifting. The aim of all communities must be not to end up in criminal statistics. Then it is important that good forces go together. Wider involvement and involvement of different agencies will help to address the social conditions affecting the development of crime. Responsibility for different events cannot be placed at one place. In order to prevent crime, the opposite is true of school, the community, the police, child protection, etc. are coming together, especially in relation to youth. To quote a politician from Hamar, we need to see things early, thank you and hold on. In its police prevention strategy plan for the period 2002–2005, the Police Directorate has focused on an overall approach to police work, based on coordination of prevention and follow-up measures to prevent crime. The plan is based on what we call problem-oriented police work as a method. In short, this method seeks to identify a criminal pattern through an on-site practical analysis and to prioritise and implement such measures on the basis of this analysis. It will also apply in a community. However, it is important to stress that it is necessary to see the crime scene in a broad perspective in order to succeed. Although it is important to establish good local arrangements, this will not always be sufficient. It is necessary to look at the pattern of crime beyond the municipal and county boundaries and across the police districts. It's only when you get such cooperation that you want to see good results from the crime prevention work. In order to prevent an increase in crime, good local and regional cooperation arrangements are essential. This may include participation in multidisciplinary drug prevention projects, the establishment of night-care projects, regular child protection meetings and participation in several other local and regional forums. My appeal, therefore, is that police, local and regional authorities, local politicians and citizens work closely and aim together to prevent and combat emerging crime in the community. If we're going to have a chance to fight this, you just have to go into what the representative's dealing with, and play on each other's skills and experiences. In small communities like Fromand, which is a small municipality, but also in parts of Fromand, which I know for reasons other than because I'm a government council, it's a good thing that the environment is so small that the gentleman knows the youth and the youth knows the gentleman. A decentralised police force is therefore essential to finding local, correct solutions. I am pleased that a unanimous judiciary follows the Government's wish that the number of posts should not be reduced. It is that local knowledge, proximity to the population and good cooperation arrangements, as I have mentioned in this article, help to increase the security of everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-14.ana.ud1800e689	I would like to thank the Council of State for a positive response, which I would like to contribute to further dissemination. I would also like to stress that the event in Fromand on December 21, when a person was shot and killed under a car theft, is of a very special nature. What has happened has put strong feelings into swings throughout the village. Because it's so that many midwives believe that too little has been done in the past to stop this growing crime in the countryside. The person who shot gets a lot of sympathy. He is a well-like citizen of society and a stable worker who has in no way been a criminal on the verge of law before. So most people think that he, as a shot, acted in a moment's fear and desperation in a very stressful and dramatic situation, and he saw no other way out than to seize arms to defend and protect himself and his family. In retrospect, then, the statements of sympathy flow into the sighted and his family from people not only in the municipality of Fromland but from all over the country. I would like to ask the Council of State: does the Council of State appreciate people's reactions to what happened in Fromand, and that the intended person has received support from many teams? What does this state council really say?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-14.ana.ud1800e698	First of all, I never go into concrete things. The matter mentioned, which is well known in the media, in the public and, of course, locally, is now dealt with in law, and then I get to wait, based on the rules of the game. But what I can say, to address the question the representative raised, is that I have received information from the Police Directorate, which confirms that there is a criminal environment in the Arendal–Froland area that is active, and there are a number of people who can be described as heavy repeaters in serious profit crime. When such criminals come to a quiet rural area like Fromand, without me going into the specific matter, we have to take seriously that people can feel insecure. The Police Directorate has told me that the police district is taking this situation seriously by constantly apprehending, incarceration and sentencing the criminals in this environment. Such heavy crime requires close and strict follow-up. It is a fundamental answer to prevent a population from feeling disturbed. So it's the way I can never defend that someone's taking care of it. The assessment of the case is now in court. But the general answer I have given is a description of a local situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-14.ana.ud1800e705	I remember once again the response of the Council of State. I just want to say that today it is only Oslo Police District and Hordaland Police District, Bergen, who have more reported cases of violence and drug crime than Agder Police District. The county has also been the site of many grotesque killings in recent years. Only in Arendal do we recently remember the hospital killing and the Stoa killing, which was pure execution and liquidation. In these days, the largest amphetamine problem in Norway is also rolled up in the South, starting from Arendal. So I and many people with me are very concerned about the profound crime we are now witnessing in South Africa, and we demand that something be done effectively to stop this development. On questions from me to the State Council on the resource situation of the police in Agder, the State Council Dørum considered that there were enough policemen in Agder. But it's still the way that we often don't look at them in the field. Then my question is: should the police simply tighten up and get more often outside the walls of the police chamber, or is it simply too few policemen compared to the real crime rate that we are now witnessing in Agder?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-14.ana.ud1800e714	The representative expands the question. I have pointed out in the previous answer that a crime situation exists in the Arendal–Froland area, that is, it is across municipal borders. That there is such a development in Agder, police officer Hareide has strongly expressed, among other things. last summer, and that is how the representative addresses it. And then I would say this: it's the police chief in Agder who has the police responsibility for the challenges we see not only in Agder and Fromand, but also across the municipal borders. The individual bilgeman must do his job locally. When it is the case that many criminals commit criminal acts across municipal boundaries, each lieutenant will have the overview locally, but the chief of police will be responsible for coordinating the response across municipalities. Then it is the policeman who has to dispose of his resources so that the fight against crime becomes effective. I have faith that the Chief of Police, along with the Attorney General, will follow things up in the Arendal–Froland area too, but I myself will follow the situation in Agder closely and closely with the Police Directorate. And I would like to end this way: no resident in Fromand or any other municipality in Norway should feel that the police are not taking the crime seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-14.ana.ud1800e724	I would like to ask the following questions to the Governmental Council Dørum: ‘There are several civil cases in recent years in which people have been charged legal costs far beyond the value of the case of full compliance. In a dispute in Ålesund, a car was increased to a value of NOK 20 000 after a court case was closed to a total of NOK 113 000, including salaries. There are other examples of large legal expenses in cases that should not initially be assisted by a lawyer. What can the Council of State do to reduce the need for a lawyer in simple disputes and/or to reduce legal fees?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-14.ana.ud1800e733	I share the representative's concern about the high cost of law services. It is a prerequisite that most people should be able to seek legal assistance, that legal services are reasonable and accessible. But there is not always always a link between the value of a dispute and the diversity of the dispute. Let me first point out that according to today's rules there is no claim for legal assistance in matters that are dealt with in the main proceedings. In the case of an appeal to the Court of Law and the Supreme Court, special rules shall apply. Small and simple disputes may facilitate a party's proceedings. However, I believe that legal aid should be financially available to those who want it in legal proceedings, regardless of the complexity of the matter. It is essential to keep costs at a proportionate level that simple disputes are not made generous. Both the court and the lawyers are responsible for ensuring that this does not happen. A lawyer who ‘inflates’ a case risks reducing the amount of the salary when deciding on claims for costs. A lawyer's salary calculation can also be reduced by the Disciplinary student if he receives a complaint from the client, and here I refer to the fourth paragraph of Section 227 of the Law. The party may also ask the court to determine the salary of its lawyer in accordance with the rules of Section 52 of the Law on Disputes. In addition, I would like to point out that the Arbitration Act allows the parties to agree that a dispute should be dealt with in simplified proceedings, which may result in a faster and cheaper handling of simple disputes. The request for more reasonable legal services was the background to the Committee of Lawyers, which had a mandate, among other things. å ‘Propose measures that may improve competition or otherwise contribute to the rationalisation of law-enforcement services’ — and more easily accessible — ‘for individuals and small businesses’. The Committee gave its opinion in September 2002, in NOU 2002:18 Court of Justice. A central question is whether and to what extent it is necessary to allow legal aid activities other than lawyers to be carried out in addition to the current system. I have this and other issues to assess in the follow-up that we are now doing in the Department of the Legal Competition Committee's investigation. I would also like to point out that the Ministry of Justice is working on a proposal for a new law on dispute resolution in the light of the Committee on Disputes, NOU 2001:32 Right to action. A fundamental view of the sample is that there should be proportionality between the importance of the dispute in question and the scope of the procedure. Among other things, the sample proposes a separate small claim process for dealing with claims where the amount of the dispute is not higher than twice the basic amount of the public interest. There is also a proposal for a ceiling on compensation for expenses to lawyers in these cases, which is up to 25 pst. of the amount of the dispute, not more than 2 G. I will carefully consider the proposal for a small-scale process. A small claim process will not only ensure a simpler and cheaper handling of a current dispute, it will also make it easier for the parties to bring their own case before the courts without legal assistance. Furthermore, I want to have an eye on the cost level when I consider the proposal of the Dispute Goals Committee for new rules on costs. The committee itself sees the costs as a serious challenge in civil matters, and I agree with that, even as it has now been raised by the representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-14.ana.ud1800e751	I thank you for the answer, that was a very positive answer. Rules of good law are based on the voluntary acceptance of lawyers to ensure that legal activities are carried out in accordance with ethical principles. Violation of the rules is the basis for disciplinary consequences for the lawyer. In Ålesund's case, the legal salary has become more than five times the total value of the disputed item. Good law practice says, among other things:\t\t You can change the settings of the ‘If the cost of a job has to be assumed to be disproportionate in relation to the client’s financial position’... ‘the lawyer should make the client aware of this in a timely manner’. Some clients have the resources to pursue these unfairnesses in the payroll and, if necessary, appeal the lawyers, others do not. The general perception of the judicial system rests also on how they experience the costs of bringing a case before the judicial system. Will the Council of State contribute to the creation of the possibility for public authorities to regulate total costs on salaries better than today and, where appropriate, to provide sanctions against lawyers who provide the client with unfair legal fees?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-14.ana.ud1800e763	Firstly, there is a public debate on the issues that the representative deals with, which he himself contributes to. It is in itself important that the ethical guidelines drawn up by the Association of Advocates to be followed by its members are respected. That's one starting point. The second starting point is the rules that we already have under the Law of the Court of Justice and the Law of Disputes. Through the examination of the Competition Committee and its final outcome and through the reforms linked to the dispute case investigation, I believe that we will come up with proposals that will meet some of the heavy concerns raised by the representative. It is not a goal that matters should be done more generously than necessary. It's not a goal that the taximeter should run, it's a goal that it should be sober. The tools we have are what we have in the follow-up to the Dispute Goals Committee – which I do a lot of work on – and in the follow-up to the Lawyers' Competition Committee, which at first lies like a rice behind the mirror in relation to the Lawyers' Association: tightening up their ethical rules. I am prepared to follow this, because all of these investigations have in common that you have to fulfil the purposes that the representative has raised in his question.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-14.ana.ud1800e770	I thank you once again for the reply from the Council of State. There are many examples of unfair legal fees. Among other things, Stortinget has decided to give fathers the right to know who they are biologically sourced, where the test is compulsory for the child, and where the state covers the costs. But there are lawyers who take such cases to prevent DNA testing, and who lose in the legal system, as the Stortinget has then decided, and who, as a result, charge their client both their own and the counterparty's legal costs. This is very unfortunate for the client. In the rules of good law, it is called, among other things,\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t «A lawyer shall advise the client and take care of his interests promptly, conscientiously and with care.» How can the Council of State, including through the answers he has given here today, prevent such speculative legal practices through better public information to individuals? I am pleased – just to say so – with the answer given by the Council of State, which concerned the ability of clients to run their own affairs for the device. But the question is, how can we improve the public information of individuals, so that we can become aware of the possibility of conducting our own cases in the judicial system, and also become aware of the rights of society?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-14.ana.ud1800e782	There are a number of places today where advice is given to people about what rights they have. I would just like to highlight the possibilities under the Law of the Court of Justice and under the Law of Disputes in order to decide on salary costs, which is the subject here. Right now, it's the public debate that can help ensure that those rights are there. One of the Ministry of Justice's contributions in such a context was an ethics seminar that we invited widely to last September, where we would just put the search light on law, not only in relation to civil proceedings, but also in relation to other aspects of the practice of law. Business lights were part of it. At that seminar, we had many of these issues highlighted. I have stated that I carefully consider changing regimes, from ethics to supplementing with competition regulation, in order to be sure that we achieve the purposes that have been taken up, and in order to avoid undue consequences. However, until we have promoted the proposal – following investigations by the Committee on Disputes and the Committee on Competition – we need to use the rules of procedure we now have, and the possibilities provided for by the Law of the Court of Justice and the Code of Disputes.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-14.ana.ud1800e794	I will ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘From New Year onwards, a new margin has been introduced for patients who contact their general practitioner on the telephone. Such a single event may cost the patient up to NOK 85. There is reason to believe that more patients cannot afford this excess and thus will not contact their doctor with the consequences it may have in the medical/patient relationship and for the individual patient. What kind of legal or regulatory home has the Ministry used to introduce this new feature?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-14.ana.ud1800e803	Home meal in order to require a proportion of the municipal health service is governed by the Municipal Health Services Act §2-3, cf. Regulation of 30 March 1984 on the reimbursement of medical and physical expenses. On the basis of § 5-4 of the Swedish Social Security Act, social security benefits to cover the costs of medical examination and treatment. The benefit is provided at the prescribed reimbursement rates. In order to have a uniform and regulated system for the self-payment of patients on medical visits, the State and the Municipal Councils shall each year negotiate with the Norwegian Medical Association on fees in the standard rate for members of the Medical Association, as well as on basic grants and operating grants. The government's fixing of the social security reimbursement rates in the regulation also gives the excess. The current agreement on basic, operating and fee fees has been concluded for the period from 1 July 2003 to 30 June 2004. In the treatment of the 2004 State Budget, the Stortinget adopted an increase of 12 pst in medical, psychological and physiotherapies. from 1 January 2004. This is in the middle of a current contractual period and the increase may initially be carried out by the State by reducing reimbursement rates within the agreed fees, so that the own-payment increases as provided for. However, the fees charged for doctors consist in all respects either of partiality only or merely of social security disbursement. Therefore, if the State is to initiate an increase in the own-payment within the applicable fee tariffs, it can only take place by converting reimbursement tariffs in full or in part into self-proprietary shares. Instead, if the existing excesses are to be increased, it will entail changes to the agreed fees, and it will require agreement with the Medical Association. That is why the launch of a self-promotion application for medical care requires negotiation. A simple patient contact may take place at the presence, by offer, by telephone or by letter, including e-mail. Simple patient contact tariffs can only be used when the contact contains advice from the doctor or his auxiliary staff, e.g. due to a change in the patient’s condition or a change in the treatment schedule as a result of studies conducted, or when the contact leads to a renewal of the prescription, an extension of the medical certificate or similar. Tariffs may not be used for hourly or simple reporting of test results. Until the end of the year, there was an excess for all such simple contacts through attendance, bids, letters and telephones when they resulted in a prescription, referral or search message. Most telephone consultations relate to so-called telephone prescriptions, and were already due to a partiality before the end of the year. Many doctors seem to be interested in finding practical solutions that may limit the scope of this by sending bills, which have been pointed out. Another factor that will limit this scope is that the social security will probably continue to pay for more than half of the contacts in question, because patients have a free card. However, I understand very well and take on seriously the reactions that have come from some teams to the new excess. Negotiations in December were complicated because self-promotion was to be carried out in the middle of a contractual period. It gave fewer degrees of freedom to handle the increase in an appropriate manner. However, I am concerned that the State in the normal tariff negotiations will now aim to rectify the unfortunate results of the self-proprietary applications carried out from 1 January this year. I will initiate the necessary dialogue with the Norwegian Medical Association on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-14.ana.ud1800e820	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I am glad that he will take the matter up. But at the same time, I have to say that I'm quite impressed by what crooked ways you're able to find when you're going to charge patients with multiple prosthetics. This was another unfortunate result of the budgetary agreement with the Workers' Party. I think it is quite serious that, in negotiations with the Norwegian Medical Association, the state simply transfers public costs to the patient in the form of state ownership. It should not be easy for the state to impose additional taxes on our patients for sickness. Feedback from many general practitioners shows that the number of telephone calls has fallen dramatically from 1 January. This worries me, and it also worries the decision-makers. Should a belief in the different opinions of the political parties – including the Labour Party – be the majority of the Stortinget to remove the excessive proportion of telephone calls, and I ask the Council of State to ensure that this is done. Did I understand correctly that he would enter into negotiations with the Medical Association and try to get rid of this excess?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-14.ana.ud1800e829	As I said in my post, the state has had relatively few degrees of freedom, given the budgetary decisions that the Stortinget has taken, and which always form the basis for the negotiations with the Norwegian Medical Association. There is an agreement, and it has the parties I have referred to. This means that changes need to be made to a new agreement. I have said that I will initiate a necessary dialogue with the Norwegian Medical Association on this. It is my aim that the State in the normal tariff negotiations now in ours should aim to correct unfortunate results on the points where experience so warrants.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-14.ana.ud1800e836	Once again, I thank the Council of State for the answer. I am happy that the matter is taken up, but it takes some time. This will not be applicable until far out in the spring. And what damage has then happened in the patient/medical relationship, we don't know, but it's worrying. Otherwise, I would like to remind the Council of State that a Document No has been submitted. 8 proposals today, which are on the reintroduction of reimbursement from the Rikstrygdeverket for telephone contacting a doctor. Since there is a majority in the United Kingdom to remove this scheme, such a proposal would be completely unnecessary. I just want to remind the Council of State of this proposal that is now in Stortinget, to be dealt with in ours.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-14.ana.ud1800e845	I am familiar with this proposal and expect that the Social Committee will give me the opportunity to comment on it. Then I will inform Stortinget about my further handling of these questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-14.ana.ud1800e853	I will ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘It is stated in the Evening Item on 7 January that the leaders of several health care agencies have agreements on supervisoryly emerging lucrative pension schemes. Is the Council of State comfortable with the decisions that are made here, or is he going to do something?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-14.ana.ud1800e862	The formal aspects of the issue raised by the representative, Mr Kleppa, are clear: it is the responsibility of the board to employ managers and to establish conditions of employment. This is the result of Section 36 of the Health Business Act. I would also like to point out that the 2004 State Budget sets out the conditions of employment of managing directors in all regional health companies. In order to provide guidance on the conditions of employment of managers in whole-time state enterprises, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade sent out on 3 September 2001 ‘Guidelines for the employment conditions of managers in whole-time state enterprises’. The Ministry of Health, by letter of 11 October 2001, informed the directors of the regional health establishments of this guide and requested that these guidelines be made known to the members of the board of health establishments and, to the extent necessary, to the staff of the administrations. As far as I am aware, none of the regional governments have gone beyond these wage and pension policy guidelines for managing directors of regional enterprises. Let me state that it is essential that public health services have confidence and legitimacy in the people they serve. Resources must be used in a good and balanced manner. This is particularly important in a situation where specialist health services are facing major shifts. The current transitions will require the involvement of a number of actors. The pension problem cannot be seen independently. Health services must have pension schemes that ensure proper personnel, but also represent rational resource use, and that gain sufficient understanding and acceptance in society. This is particularly important in the wake of the suspension of the Pension Commissions. In this process, too, enterprises must be prepared to participate. It is important not to block individual actions for good processes to come here. I therefore take a serious view of the debate on companies' pensions. There is no need to develop a pattern of pension schemes for managers who are perceived as unnecessarily lucrative. The Chairman of the Board of Health South has informed that a broad review of all aspects of pension schemes will be carried out against the Governing Board meeting on 26 January. That is wise and absolutely necessary. Not only the board of Health South, but also the boards of the other regional health companies where the issue is at issue, in Health West and Health Mid-Norway, will, after notification to the department, review the pension schemes. That is, as I said, wise and necessary behavior. It'll happen quickly. I want feedback from these reviews before I take a position on the follow-up from the department. We are totally dependent on the emergence of pension schemes that both provide the right leaders and represent rational resource use and gain sufficient understanding and acceptance in society. The starting point, of course, is that undertakings must be able to fulfil the conditions under which qualified managers can be recruited for these management jobs. In this respect, it has also been a wish to be able to recruit leaders from a broader perspective than has traditionally been possible. In any case, there will be a legal framework for which changes can be implemented without the acceptance of those involved. The government will, as the Minister of Industry has announced, carry out a broad review of the guidelines drawn up for pay and pension conditions for managers in whole-time public enterprises. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-14.ana.ud1800e882	It is good that the Chairman of Health South takes the initiative that he is now taking. With the reactions that have been, he has no choice. That's how he has to handle this. But there are more issues covered, for the first is an unrelenting sense of responsibility for the social responsibility of healthcare professionals. Decisions come at a time when there is a strong cut in patient treatment, and when the Government advocates a joint pension reform. The proceedings in the Administrative Board seem to be particularly unfair. Pensions have been provided for non-requested tenants, and directors do not acknowledge the agreements they have entered into. My question will be: Was the Minister of Health consulted prior to these agreements, and has he previously accepted the decisions made?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-14.ana.ud1800e891	It is within the provisions of the Health Business Act that it is the responsibility of the Management Board to lay down pay and working conditions for managing directors. It also applies to managing directors of regional undertakings. In the case of managing directors of the regional undertakings, their remuneration shall be communicated to the Ministry and notified to the Stortinget. It's done. I share many of the observations that the representative Meltveit Kleppa now expresses. I assume that the review that the directors of the three regional health companies concerned have now announced includes these kinds of questions raised here.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-14.ana.ud1800e900	The decisions taken — if this is the case that the Minister of Health was not aware of them at all in advance — are an alarming example of the release that the Health Administration has now received. There is reason to transfer them also in other areas, i.e. decisions relating to patient treatment. I would like to stress the need for a closer dialogue between the Minister of Health and the Business Administration. Then, too, there is no doubt that unclear information has been provided from the Ministry of Health to the Storting on these lucrative pension schemes. It is impossible to read from Appendix 1 what plans the five top leaders have received. Nor does it show that there is a number of other leaders who have extraordinary arrangements in relation to what is common and what is available to top leaders in the country. Will the Council of State take any action with a view to providing better information to the Storting?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-14.ana.ud1800e909	Let me first say that I do not take the invitation to a general discussion about the hospital reform, which the representative Meltveit Kleppa draws up. We've had several opportunities to take it into this room, and I don't think it belongs here. It is very important that all responsible parts of this system relate to the division of responsibilities of the law. But it is the case that guidance was provided on pay and working conditions by the Ministry of Industry and Trade during the previous government, and they were sent out to health companies during the previous government. These guidelines are now taking overall responsibility for revision, as the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade has stated in the media today. Otherwise, I have to say that the information given to the Stortinget follows instructions for information about whole state companies and companies that apply in general, but I do of course provide the information that the Stortinget wants to be presented at any time.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-14.ana.ud1800e922	I have a question for the Minister of Health: ‘Skellfoss Psychiatric Centre has an operating agreement with Aker University Hospital until 31 December 2004. For 2003, Aker bought all the places from the institution. There are now signs that there may be fewer places this year, and from 2005 it is uncertain whether this type of place is needed by the institution at the specialist health level. Does the Council agree that there is no need for such institutions as Skjellfoss represents for serious mental disorders?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-14.ana.ud1800e931	Private and voluntary actors have had and continue to play a central role in the fulfilment of the responsibilities of regional health businesses, including in the field of mental health protection. At the same time, there is a significant shift in the supply of mental health protection, with a focus on building up well-located mental health work in cooperation with municipalities. The restructuring of services into a more decentralised structure is the main strategy underpinning the Roadmap for Mental Health, which the Stortinget has just decided to extend by two years. In the governance papers of the regional health enterprises for 2004 and in a separate letter in December 2003, the Ministry has clearly stated that this should be followed up. At the same time, it is clarified that the closure of individual institutions and services does not take place until alternatives for patients are built up. I assume that regional health companies are loyal to this. In the case of Skjellfoss psychiatric centres, Aker University Hospital HF has had a contract to purchase all 26 places. Health East informs me that in the 2004 draft budget for Aker University Hospital, it is proposed to reduce by one place – for the purchase of 25 places. Plans are not now in place to further reduce the purchase of premises by the institution. It is true that the Roadmap for mental health also requires changes and transformations in the supply, including: by stepping up municipal services and expanding the district psychiatric centre. It will therefore not be excluded that Skjellfoss psychiatric centre will also be subject to future migration. But it will apply to anyone who offers an offer in this area. However, it is a clear premise from my point of view that regional health businesses use a user perspective for their activities and ensure that patients experience safety and care, and that private operators continue to play an important role in the overall provision of services. It requires good processes, such as in all conversion work, with the active involvement of all stakeholders involved, precisely to ensure continuity and safety of patients.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-14.ana.ud1800e942	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which may be positive when you relate to 2004, but which is still very uncertain about the future. Because it is not that Skjellfoss is not willing to change, but it seems like Aker Hospital, when it comes to saving 32 million. kr at the psychiatry clinic, directs the search to the private institutions and those operated by NPISHs. And in the case of Skjellfoss, who has built up a very good offer for patients with severe mental disorders, it can be seen that when very poor patients are written out from closed wards in hospitals to institutions, there is a gradual improvement for many. They are able to live in an open institution and get keys to their own door, latency, both verbal and physical, diminishing, and patients master more tasks than before. Then my question to the Minister of Health is: What are the offers that come instead of what is being cut for the worst patients?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-14.ana.ud1800e949	Now, in my main response, I have made it clear that it is not a closure of an existing offer we are talking about here. It's mainly being passed on. The policy instructions for the hospital sector and the specialist health service are to ensure that, to the extent that something is stepped down, alternatives are to be put in place first. It would not be right for me to stand in the main hall and issue permanent safeguards for individual institutions, whether public or private. I ask you to understand that. But based on the answers I've received from Health East, and the guidelines the Department has given for the management of this part of the specialist health service, I believe that patients' interests should be well cared for.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-14.ana.ud1800e956	I thank the Council again for the answer. In the evening post of 13 January this year, it is estimated that the number of psychiatric hospitalisation sites, which in the plan were to be reduced to 1,400 daily places throughout the planning period as the district psychiatric centres were established in the municipalities, was only 544 in 2002. And that's a very low number compared to what the Storting has decided. That's worrying, because you can also see that there are still plans at some centres to shut down. Then I would like to ask the Minister of Health: will this not lead to more hospitalizations in emergency departments, more psychotic breakdowns in some patients, which will lead to aggravation of the disease and increased violence by sick people who are not receiving treatment and help?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-14.ana.ud1800e965	The main intervention in the Mental Health Action Plan is the development of services in municipalities, district psychiatric centres and the reduction of traditional psychiatric hospitals. It is a transition that must go parallel in such a way that you do not step down an offer without there being an alternative offer for patients. It is a guideline that I have clarified to health companies most recently in the newsletter for this year, but also in a letter before Christmas. It is right to step down the capacity of these traditional nursing homes that do not provide the active and municipal treatment that we require. When I've found it necessary to clarify what I've done now, it's because we've seen some examples that the deceleration has gone faster than the escalation compared to the individual patients, and that's not acceptable.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-14.ana.ud1800e975	This question, from the representative of Marit Nybakk to the Minister for Development, has been transferred to the Minister for Foreign Affairs who is directing him. It will be answered by the Minister for Development on behalf of the Minister for Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-14.ana.ud1800e978	So I have allowed myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Development, and that was actually done deliberately. I understand that it has been transferred to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, but records that it is still the Minister for Development who answers. So it was so complicated or simple. The question is as follows: ‘In fundamentalist Sudan, a 16-year-old girl is sentenced to 100 whips for having a child in the world. Norway is active in peace mediation in Sudan. Will the Council of State in that context contribute to the end of the barbaric punishment?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-14.ana.ud1800e989	Norway has reacted with disgust at the judgment given to 16-year-old Intisar Bakri Abdulgade because she has born a child outside of marriage. Norway has protested to the Sudanese authorities on several occasions and now, by Monday 12 January at the Norwegian Embassy in Khartoum, stressing that this case has produced strong reactions in Norway. Several other countries have reacted in the same way as Norway and addressed similar enquiries to the Sudanese authorities. The international response has resulted in the execution of the sentence being suspended so far, and there may now be hope that the sentence will not be enforced. The government will continue to follow up this matter in our contacts with the Sudanese authorities and will maintain close contact with neighbouring countries. Torture, inhumane or degrading treatment or punishment is prohibited under international law in any case. Any attempt to weaken this absolute ban on torture is countered by Norway, in particular by the UN Commission on Human Rights, the UN General Assembly and in other relevant multilateral contexts. During the peace negotiations in Sudan, Norway has worked actively to make the parties commit themselves to respect universal human rights. Norwegian international rights experts participated in the initial stages of the negotiations with a view to solidly anchoring human rights issues in a peace agreement and in the Sudan of the future. We are pleased that the parties have taken our views into account in the draft peace agreement on these points. At the same time, we must note that the basis for the peace agreement is the recognition by the parties of their different traditions of law and criminal justice. This means that Sharia-based legislation can be used as a basis for legislation and criminal responses in the north. We will continue to work to ensure that this legislation is based on Sudan's international obligations and that criminal reactions that violate the obligations to avoid degrading punishment or the obligations to children's rights are abolished.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-14.ana.ud1800e1002	I would like to thank you for a positive response. I think it is absolutely essential that we engage as strongly as we can both bilaterally and through international channels to save this young mother, whose crime is actually to have put life into the world. Of course, she won't survive 100 whips. This is a way to torture people to the dead. It is true, as the Council of State says, that Norway is at the forefront of peace negotiations between the parties. I record what the Council of State says that a peace agreement should ensure that both parties can observe the justice and traditions of the two parties. However, I would ask that increased pressure be put on the regime in the north to alleviate these strict Sharia laws, which, after the fall of the Taliban regime in Afghanistan, must be the toughest thing we currently have in the world of Islamic fundamentalist Sharia legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-14.ana.ud1800e1009	Let me stress that from the Norwegian side we are very concerned about this matter, and we want to engage, as the representative asks, as strongly as we can to ensure that this girl is not subjected to the punishment she is sentenced to. I would also like to stress that it is difficult for us to judge which fundamentalist or Islamic governments and regimes have the toughest criminal law practice. But I think that is the basis for saying that a peace agreement will have to lead to greater transparency in the north, also in relation to other political parties and groups, so we can hope that it can have an impact on the very practice and tradition of this area in the country. We on the Norwegian side will at least do our part to underline the importance of respecting fundamental human rights for women, for children and to be protected against torture.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-14.ana.ud1800e1018	Just one additional comment from my side. I know that Amnesty International Norway and Amnesty International have reacted very quickly, but Amnesty Norway has now also increased the focus on female repression internationally. Amnesty should certainly not remain the only instance that does so at present, since the oppression and suffering of women in some countries never seem to end. In addition to all the oppression that exists, all the violations of human rights that exist, not least in fundamentalist countries, it is also true that women now make up two thirds of the world's poor. I would like to ask the Council of State to help the Norwegian Government step up its work in cooperation with Amnesty and other organisations to improve the situation of women in poor countries as regards human rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-14.ana.ud1800e1023	Let me first say that we already have a strong focus on women's rights, which I think most will see by registering both Norwegian posts and Norwegian focus on this area in the UN context. This is primarily the responsibility of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, but we are going to pass on this strong recommendation and this wish from the representative. On the development side, we have a strong focus on maximising the poverty correction of aid, and we want to put up the work so that we reach the poorest. As the representative was inside, at least 70 pst. by women and children. To avoid further feminisation of poverty and to reduce it is an important goal for me as a Minister of Development, so that a women's focus is also with us in the development-oriented work we do in very many of the poor countries of the world.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-14.ana.ud1800e1030	Question 8 will be answered later.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-14.ana.ud1800e1043	This question has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-14.ana.ud1800e1050	‘According to the PISA study, the learning environment in Norwegian schools is among the worst in the OECD in terms of class unrest and unmotivated and unsimplified students. Based on a number of questions that students have answered about the disciplinary conditions in the class, Norway is the worst among all OECD countries except Italy and Greece. What is the Government’s strategy to reduce anxiety and the discipline problems in initial training?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-14.ana.ud1800e1057	It is true that according to the PISA survey, Norway is in a bad position in relation to other countries when it comes to asking 15-year-olds about school unrest and discipline problems. Norwegian students thrive at school, but at the same time report a disturbance that disturbs teaching. Measured against other countries in the PISA survey, Norway scores very poorly. Some people think this is counterproductive, but in my opinion it doesn't have to be. A troubled and inefficient learning situation need not be intrusive. However, it may be that one does not necessarily thrive worse with less anxiety – and/or that the students themselves are actually willing to renovate a little on general well-being, as they learn more and/or learn more effectively, for example. by making better use of school time. The evaluation of Reform 97 and the higher education differentiation project also provide information on well-being and the learning environment confirming that there is room for improvement. However, when the representative Sortevik asks questions about the Government’s strategy to reduce unrest and disciplinary problems, he asks a very wide-ranging question, some of which goes far beyond political and school policy. There are questions about the view of children, about the role of children in society, about the authority of adults, about the view of learning, teaching methods, the relationship between teacher and student, the prevailing values of society, the relationship between home and school, etc. As the representative of Sortevik knows, the government implements a number of measures to reduce the scale of bullying and enhance awareness of the value of children and young people in school. Instead of tying up all these measures, I would rather focus on two perspectives, which I personally believe are important. One perspective means that policy is not always the solution, but rather can be part of the problem. If one leaves the impression that education, behaviour, motivation and attitudes are primarily a state responsibility, such as: The government can solve through a'strategy', so we're at risk of throwing blues in each other's eyes. Attitudes and motivation can be maintained by policies, but they can also be kept down by policies. The second perspective is related to what we can do anyway politically. In my opinion, this is mainly about helping to strengthen school and teachers' authority, their respect and self-respect. Nor in this area do I think politics can do anything, but we can do anything. The action rooms of municipalities, schools and teachers must be such as to contribute to accountability and reflection on action options rather than to disclaimer and rule-management. The instruments in this respect may be many, from giving negotiating responsibilities to the actual employers of the school, resolving in rigid classification rules, increasing school methodological freedoms and trusting teachers as professional professionals, having greater transparency about school performance, conducting user studies and strengthening home school cooperation, to set limits on what the school should be responsible for. In my opinion, there is a clear line in the government's school policy in this regard, and the Stortinget will have further opportunity to elaborate on this in the context of the communication we are about to promote on the quality of initial training during the spring. In addition, it is important to increase school competence, among both teachers and school leaders. It may be a matter of purely professional competence, but also of professional knowledge and knowledge of the teaching role and teacher as a leader. This, too, will come back to the Government in the context of the communication to be promoted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-14.ana.ud1800e1076	The Government has presented several strategic plans for different strands of the education system. I mention as examples strategy plans to improve reading, to improve math skills and understanding, and now most recently for learning and greater participation for linguistic minorities in school and education. Through the Prime Minister, measures have also been proclaimed to eliminate all bullying by 2004. Anxiety and discipline problems have an extent that makes it a fundamental problem of good learning in Norwegian school. Why is this problem not attacked in an equally active way by the Government?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-14.ana.ud1800e1083	First of all, I have to say that in terms of the work we do against bullying in school, which is very extensive, and which concerns everything from legal measures to active hard work out in schools, it has never been promised to remove all bullying. It's at first a two-year hard work. What the Prime Minister has been concerned about is that we should have ambitions to get there that no child will be bullied or harassed for a long time without any adults seeing it and intervening. We should have such a zero tolerance as ambition, and a hope of getting there. Moreover, I think that the representative Sortevik here draws up an indirect contrast between focusing on the professional, educational, school-based room of action, the school as authority and the teaching profession as a profession, and doing something about the unrest and the discipline problems in school. I think the unrest and the discipline problems are closely linked to what else is done in terms of school policy, both professional and educational. Among other things, the researchers in the differentiation project have said that the yield culture in higher education is related to non-professional requirements.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-14.ana.ud1800e1090	First of all, I will reject this mixture of unrest and lack of discipline and bullying. This actually has to be viewed as two rather distinct things. I think a lot of parents feel that there are trouble problems without necessarily being synonymous with bullying. Often few destroy too many, and often this is because we have a great mix of students with different needs, abilities, motivation and desires and choices for our own education. Will the Council of State recommend special schools, especially organized education for students who are fighting because they are obviously not comfortable in ordinary education? I point out that there is a chosen solution and strategy in the municipality of Os in Hordaland, which is governed by the Progress Party and the Right together.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-14.ana.ud1800e1097	I totally agree. We must not mix up troubles and bullying problems. Neither have we. Bullying is defined as something very special, and the effort against bullying is about it. Concerns about the educational and training situation may be partly creative concerns, as we would like to see, but it may also be devastating concerns, as reported by the students. No, we have no plans to reintroduce the special schools. Norway has come very far in including all students in school. I fully support that inclusion strategy. That doesn't mean that we can't get more customized training, more differentiated day-to-day training, and that it makes sense what we call alternative schools. It can even be a school offer under the same roof, as an ordinary school, where students can do something else for a period of time, for example. more practical work, because they are not able to cope with the daily school situation. It could be because school gets too theorized, and it can actually also be the opposite, that theoretically good students would like to make an extra effort in another environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-14.ana.ud1800e1107	I have a question for the Minister for Fisheries: ‘Norwegian shell may be a sales success on the US market, but to enter this market the Norwegian authorities have to conclude an agreement with the US Food and Drug Administration. Such an agreement is missing today. What will the Council of State do to ensure that Norwegian-produced shells can be sold on the US market?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-14.ana.ud1800e1116	According to the Committee on Fish Exports, the United States imported approx. 15 000 tonnes of shellfish in the first nine months of 2003. The statistics do not specify how much of this was blueshell, which I assume the representative Arnesen really means when he mentions shell. It's also hard to say how much blueshell is imported into the United States. But that's a potential, there's no doubt about it. On the other hand, we have not recorded any exports of shellfish to the United States from Norway, neither blueshell, pectinidae, nor oysters. In the case of international trade in food, the products must comply with the food safety and quality requirements laid down by the country of destination. These requirements shall be in accordance with international agreements concluded by both Parties, including: the International Food Standards Organisation, Codex Alimentarius. Norway currently holds the chairmanship of the Codex Alimentarius Fisheries Committee, which will now begin to develop international standards, including: for shellfish. The need for agreed international standards has been made clear in recent days as Science magazine recently published an article on alleged foreign substances in farmed salmon. In the last few days, the article has given a lot of attention and makes it visible, also in relation to what is being asked here, the need for a common international understanding of food safety based on independent research and risk assessment. I guess you can't say it was the characteristic of the Science article. In the case of exports of seafood to the United States, until now the Directorate of Fisheries has certified that seafood establishments and products comply with the requirements of the United States. It is now transferred to the Food Safety Authority, which took over this work from 1 January 2004. The Fisheries Directorate and the US regulators have also worked to conclude a mutual agreement that could further simplify this. However, the fisheries authorities have not received from the industry any request or need for a specific agreement or agreement, as pointed out here, with the US authorities in the area of shellfish. However, I would like to ask the Food Authority to contact the supervisory authorities in the United States to resume work on a mutual agreement in the field of seafood – what the Directorate of Fisheries has done so far. If it were to prove to be a market potential for Norwegian shellfish in the United States, it would, of course, be appropriate to include safety and quality at stake in such an agreement. However, there is every reason to recall that one of the main problems with Norwegian shellfish in the various markets has been the problem of maintaining a level playing field, among other things. size, and to be able to deliver all year round. These are issues and responsibilities which the industry has in the first place, while as an authority we are responsible for market access.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-14.ana.ud1800e1129	I thank the Council of State for the answer. Skjell is an attractive product for which there are great opportunities to produce here to land and for which there is a great deal of interest in the market. Well, we could say that in the case of shellfish production, we may have done too little, but that the potential is great. We know that the market likes these products. I guess that's a reality. What's the background for me asking this question is that I've got these signals from the exporters, that they've been working with the American market and have met these problems. I am therefore very pleased that the Council of State has a strategy to go into this. I can imagine asking: What time perspective does the Council of State see in order to get this into the forms that exporters need?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-14.ana.ud1800e1138	I also think Norwegian shells in Norwegian waters have great opportunities. It is then important that there is an international standard of which both the recipient and the exporters have a common experience. That is why I have now asked the Food Safety Authority to contact the supervisory authorities in the United States, so that there will be a contact that will be established fairly quickly. It must be stressed that this is a continuation of the good cooperation that we have already had. But we're now taking special care of this problem because it's a problem that's being raised in this context. I think it is very important that we stress the importance of this with international standards based on research data from environments that appear to be independent. And when the Food Authority now ensures food security, it is based on independent FAO environments. They shall test this against the Scientific Committee, which carries out independent risk assessments, based on the knowledge available at national and international level. As Minister of Fisheries, it is important for me to contribute to ensuring that Norwegian seafood is clean and felt safe. That's how it's generally perceived around the world.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-14.ana.ud1800e1145	We fully agree on that, and there must be no doubt whatsoever about the quality and purity of Norwegian products. It will punish itself fairly quickly, so quality must be at the bottom. I just want to thank you for the answer and say that I hope this can quickly come in the forms that the exporters see as necessary in order to enter the large market that exists for Norwegian shells.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-14.ana.ud1800e1152	In our dealings with the Americans, of course, we will also have a good dialogue with shellfish farmers – which we have – just to help provide market access.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-14.ana.ud1800e1167	This question falls away.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-14.ana.ud1800e1173	‘In so-called VTA enterprises – permanent work – there are people working with different degrees of disability. For many of these, work involves increased self-confidence and improved quality of life. A modest remuneration is paid from the enterprises to the workers. In addition, they receive benefits from social security. Several people find it unreasonable that they cannot get social security and compensation paid collectively from the enterprise as the pay is paid for other employees. Will the State Council propose changes to address the problem?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-14.ana.ud1800e1180	Workers in so-called VTA enterprises, enterprises with long-term work, in most cases have a disability pension as the main source of income for living. In addition, companies often pay financial compensation or bonuses to action participants. The question of paying an unearned pension as a wage or salary has been discussed on several occasions. A scheme in which gross unearned pension is transferred to the employer has been rejected. The reason has been that disability pension will then appear to be pensionable income. This would not be in accordance with the intentions of the disability pension scheme to compensate the disability pension for loss of income due to illness. Under the rules in force, the disability pension shall be reviewed when the pensioner has labour income. To the extent that wage subsidies are needed, it has been considered that this should be done in a different way than through the disability pension scheme. A complicating element is also that the disability pension is taxed according to rules other than labour income. A solution that does not raise the same principle of counter-representation would be that the social security pension, on demand, transfers the net disability pension to the employer, who makes the payment. Such a scheme has been discussed with user organisations, which are largely positive for this to be tried, but which specifies that this must be an optional scheme. The Rikstrøgdewerk is working to facilitate the choice of such a solution for individual workers in VTA enterprises, if desired. This could happen in a short time, if any.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-14.ana.ud1800e1193	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It could be up to 80 pst. by the employees of VTA companies who feel affected by this issue. In my opinion, it would be a good contribution to increased self-esteem for many of these to have a pension paid together with a salary from the company. Another issue that has also been the subject of VTA companies is why sickness benefits are not paid out of the payroll in case of illness. As we know, social security contributions are usually paid on the payroll.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-14.ana.ud1800e1202	In order to be entitled to sickness benefit, you must have had an annual income of at least G, i.e. approx. NOK 28 000. In this case, the employee usually has 100 pst. disability pension at the bottom, plus a smaller labour income within the free income system of lG, i.e. NOK 57000–58000. Those who have 100 pst. disability pension, is not entitled to sickness benefit. If labour income exceeds the free income threshold to reduce the disability rate, entitlement to sickness benefits will be available as long as the income is above G. When you're 100 pst. If you're not happy, you're just being protected by getting 100 psts. disability benefit regardless of whether you are away from work or not. If you want to receive 100 pst. unearned pay and sick pay, corresponding to a percentage, will in reality be over-compensated or double-compensated.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-14.ana.ud1800e1209	I thank you for that answer too. Based on this, I assume that it will be possible for these VTA companies to apply, among other things. The Social Security Agency on a probationary system or, where appropriate, a system in which the pension element can be transferred to its employees and that this is a system which can be solved locally and on a voluntary basis.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-14.ana.ud1800e1216	The Rikstrøgdeverket has already been entrusted with the task of facilitating the transfer of what is a disability pension to the VTA companies, so that the payment can be made from the holding rather than from the social security. This could be in place in two to three months, so it is not a long-term matter to wait for.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-14.ana.ud1800e1231	This question has been postponed to the next Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-14.ana.ud1800e1237	‘According to the Sunnmørspost of 18 November 2003, 4 out of a total of 11 ferry services from More and Romesdal are open to competition. Could the Council of State do well to provide the basis for the selection of ferry services to be outsourced to competition?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-14.ana.ud1800e1244	In the examination of the 2002 budget, the Stortinget decided to ask the Government to facilitate the competitive outsourcing of national road ferries. Competition outsourcing of national road ferries was regulated by the Transport Act until 1 January 2003. This law opened only for a sampling procedure of tenders for ferries in the national road network. The test system covered a total of six connections, two of which in More and Romesdal. For example: to allow for a general use of competition in the national road haulage industry, the Ministry of Transport has drawn up proposals for a new professional transport law replacing the former Transport Act. The Act entered into force on 1 January 2003. The aim of the competitive outsourcing of the national road ferry operation is to obtain more from the total resources used in the ferry operation. The state road authority, which has been delegated the privileges of ferries in the national road network, has initiated the process of placing the ferry services on the national road network. The objective of the Road Directorate is almost full competition in seven to ten years. The timing of the tendering process will also be further assessed by the Ministry, based on the experience gained. The Directorate-General for Road Transport decided in November 2003 to launch a five national road ferry service. Two of the five interconnections represented a call for tenders following an existing call for tenders. The Road Directorate has prioritised the outsourcing of competition in relation to the need for new capacity. Secondly, it focuses on the suspension of ferry services acquired through the framework grant scheme in recent years. The two new connections to be put on the market in More and Romesdal are both covered by these categories. The ferries are for road users, and the road users in the country's largest ferries, Møre and Romesdal, are more dependent than most of the satisfactory services. Experience with the test offers in the county shows that road users have received an improved ferry equipment and a good route offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-14.ana.ud1800e1257	I thank the Council of State for your answer. When it comes to the need for new capacity, an average age of almost 30 years on the ferry fleet in More and Romesdal should ensure that the need is present. It naturally hires me into the decision to build gas ferries. Since this is a R & D project, I expect that it will not be published abroad, but go to Norwegian companies. I hope the Council of State can confirm it. My question is: does the Council of State set the stage for the introduction of the new gas ferry projects so that the entire coastal yard industry can take part in the competition?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-14.ana.ud1800e1266	It's true that we're taking into account, among other things. to the environment and emissions from the ferry sector have worked to obtain gas ferries in Norway. In that process, there will be two points where you can look at competition. The first subparagraph applies to the operator responsible for the operation of the ferry link in question. The second part relates to the acquisition of each company, who may be required to build new ferries, and then gas ferries. In the case of a R & D project, there will be a decision against which the company entrusted with the task will be decisive.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-14.ana.ud1800e1273	I thank you for your answer. There could probably be a need to go a little bit more extensively into such a big question. According to the media in More and Romesdal on 13 January, that is to say yesterday, the department has promised to continue to prepare the construction of the new gas ferries. That's what I thought was affordable. It is urgent, and it is very important for the shipbuilding industry along the coast. We have experience, the first gas ferry, “Glutra”, was built in More and Romesdal. The Ministry has promised to try to get the contracts published before the end of January. My last follow-up question to the Council of State is: How long will it take from the announcement until the building is fully operational at our Norwegian offices?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-14.ana.ud1800e1282	How long it will take will we know when we see which actors are coming on the track and are interested in this mission, and how quickly these actors might be able to get contracts with those who are going to build the ferries. So we can't answer that question until we start the actual call.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-14.ana.ud1800e1290	I would like to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘A highway, two countries and different signs. Along Riksvej 25 or Riksvej 71 – «sjutthioettan» – on the Swedish side, there has been a long history of different practices on divorce from Sweden towards Norway. The Norwegian authorities also want it to be separated from Trysil and Elverum, while the Swedes only sign against Hamar. Can the Council of State help to solve a really small problem, but great for Trysil, for the good of all?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-14.ana.ud1800e1299	Riksveg 25 was previously connected to the Swedish highway network via so-called county roads. A few years ago, however, Rv 71 on the Swedish side was extended to the national border, so that, together with Rv 25, it now forms an intermediary route. At the turn to national road, some signposts were replaced on the former highway, and on the new signs the former local destinations Eastby and Trysil were replaced with Hamar. On the Norwegian side, the border was still separated from the border with Eastby and Trysil. It is therefore not a consistent sign of traffic from Sweden to Norway today. The Swedish Road Administration, Hedmark Road Office, raised this question with the Swedish Road Administration in December 2002, and requested that the directions from Sälen to the national border be supplemented with signs to Trysil. The road office has so far not received a written reply from the Swedish Road Administration, but by verbal contact last week a quick response was promised. I want to ensure that the matter is followed up with the Swedish road authorities in order to achieve satisfactory coordination of the route directions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-14.ana.ud1800e1310	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which was positive, and for following up the question of Trysil's best. For a place like Trysil, which is heavily dependent on tourists finding out, it's of the utmost importance that the sign is okay. It is also important that neighbouring countries have close, broad and constructive cooperation on signage. In addition to that, I do not have any additional questions, but I would like to thank you once again for the answer and wish the Council of State good luck on the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-14.ana.ud1800e1317	Would the Council of State like to comment?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-14.ana.ud1800e1320	I'm happy to receive the answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-14.ana.ud1800e1328	I have the following questions for the Minister for Transport: ‘The E6 Way of Death through Eastfold required many lives in 2003. In early November, the State Road Administration and the police put forward a plan of measures to make E6 safer with proposals to set up middle parts from Åsgård to Lekevold and from Ingedal to Swingenskogen. The streamlining measures have not yet been implemented. Can the Council of State indicate when the new security measures will be implemented?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-14.ana.ud1800e1337	As Minister of Transport, I have made a strong commitment to ensuring faster deployment of E6 through Eastfold. This is particularly necessary in the interests of road safety, but also in view of the importance of the road to business across the country. For this reason, in the spring of 2002 the Government of St.prp. No 68 for 2001–02, plans for the accelerated development of E6 through Eastfold, which was joined by the Stortinge. Thus, E6 through Østfold and beyond until Oslo is completed as a continuous motorway during 2009. Substantial parts of the distance, i.e. from the border of Sweden to the Svengenskogen and from Åsgård to Akershus-Eastfold border, will be completed as early as 2005, and the Government has provided sufficient funds in the 2004 State budget to ensure such progress. I am also in principle in favour of working locally on the possibility of prior completion of E6 through Østfold than in 2009, and have asked the Directorate of Road to assess these plans more closely. However, account must be taken of the fact that the accelerated deployment of E6 is not at the expense of the deployment of E18 through Eastfold. The government will return to the plan for the further development of E6 through Eastfold in the National Transport Plan Report 2006-2015, presented in spring 2004. In the meantime, measures are being implemented on existing E6 in Eastfold. Among other things, winter operations are given high priority. Road lighting is set up along the E6 from Akershu border to Sarpsborg, speed limits are reduced, and increased traffic monitoring and speed control is carried out. In November 2003, the police and the state’s roadvesen Østfold district presented a report describing proposals for further road safety measures on existing E6. As the main physical measures, the report proposes temporary midpoints on the Åsgård-Lekevold route, approximately. 11 km, and Ingedal–Swingenforskogen, approx. 6.5 km. The costs have been provisionally estimated at approximately 60 million. kr. The Ministry will come back to the case after the national transport plan 2006-2015 has been dealt with in Stortinget and after the Directorate-General for Roads has assessed the impact of the measures already in place. The possible construction of middle parts of E6 in Eastfold will be dealt with in the State budget for 2005. In any case, this measure will only be a possible temporary solution pending the development of four-field roads throughout the route.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-14.ana.ud1800e1352	I thank the Council of State for the answer. Out of it is to read that it will take time before we possibly get midpoints on the current routes through Østfold, because the Council of State outlined that it was the government budget for next year that would clarify this. After all, we have all the positive experiences with the consequences and effects of middle-parties, and we know that the number of fatal accidents is greatly reduced. The Council of State said that four-field motorways through Eastfold would be likely to be ready in 2009, and then we have statistics saying that 48 new people will be killed in traffic on the E6 road through Eastfold before this is clear. Doesn't the Council of State mean that it's urgent to have these temporary middle parts, so that the loss of human life is much less than what we're going through on the road of death today?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-14.ana.ud1800e1359	I very much agree that there is a need for us to implement measures to get the number damaged and killed. The total number of deaths in Norway is around 300 a year, and it's too high, we can't live with it, and these roads in Eastfold are of the roads that are so burdened. That's exactly what's behind us doing E6 in particular, and we also have a high rate of E18. We have now launched measures to reduce the number of accidents on these roads. I have faith that will help. We also know that midpoints have a positive effect, but I'm also concerned that we should be able to find the most effective measures to reduce the number of accidents. Unfortunately, we also have several roads in the country that have a similar frequency of accidents.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-14.ana.ud1800e1364	I thank the Council of State for the additional response. Before we get to 2009, it's been six years, and we know that a lot of people will be killed on E6. It is so serious that this road has come into disrepute among drivers. Even police officers who have to run the road during duty hours use other free-time trajectories because it is so dangerous to use E6. We have a parallel highway to E6, where the frequency of serious accidents is 4.5 times lower than that of E6. What are the Council's comments on this, when we know that middle-parties have a very positive effect on avoiding traffic accidents?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-14.ana.ud1800e1371	In the way we're talking about now, there's a lot of activity going on. Bits per bit will be completed as a four-field backend path. Improvements happen all the time. Unfortunately, we have other roads where we have not started similar repairs. Just before Christmas, we had e.g. tragic events on the E6 south of Lillehammer, with a dramatic increase in the number of deaths, and it was too high a figure of one month. The concrete challenges we face may vary from place to place, from month to month, from year to year. We have to make sure that we have a high level of road safety everywhere, we cannot build middle parts as the traffic accident picture changes. We must constantly try to find the most effective measures to solve this challenge. E6 in Eastfold is also high on the list of measures here now.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-14.ana.ud1800e1381	I will ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘In the separation of the Vegvesen extension department to Mesta AS, large values in the form of road stations and equipment were transferred to the new company. How does Mesta AS dispose of materials left over in the event of station closures/restrictions?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-14.ana.ud1800e1390	At the time of the establishment of Mesta AS, the assets and liabilities of the Road Administration were mainly transferred to the new company. These values are reflected in the company’s opening balance sheet. The value of the assets is included in equity to which the country to which the owner makes a return claim. Most are a separate legal entity and are not subject to instructions on the disposal of property belonging to the country and the transfer of real estate between government institutions. Most is a limited liability company with the same commercial operating requirements as other market players. It will be up to the company how they dispose of their road stations and equipment. However, the Ministry of Transport will be the owner of the disposal operations of the company, and the overall performance of the company will of course be important in the basis of ownership policy, including issues of dividends from the company.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-14.ana.ud1800e1397	I am aware that Mesta has become AS and is a separate company, and that it is up to the company to decide this. But after all, this is a quite new company, and it's kind of under the Ministry for Follow-up. I used to have a question to the Council of State about final pay in Mesta. It turned out that the employees went into new jobs and got to keep the old salary from Mesta. So there must be some kind of unculture in Mesta. There have also been some messages to me that materials that are fully usable are scrapped, and that some are also sold to employees. Will the Council of State, in exactly the same way as the termination payments for pay, take a round of checks and see if the activities of Mesta are conducted in a proper and fair manner?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-14.ana.ud1800e1406	The question raised here relates to a responsibility that lies under the leadership of Mesta and that the board of directors has a responsibility to take care of is being properly followed up. I see it as a prerequisite that the board follows up these kinds of issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-14.ana.ud1800e1411	The President will now address question 21.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-14.ana.ud1800e1417	I allow myself to ask a question to the Minister of Defence: «In the evening post on 2 January there is an article on Haacon protection. The article tells us that the defense will leave the operation of the base to private. Director Erik Hernes of the Defence Logistics Organisation states that this is a trial project, and that he does not know how much the operation costs. So the operation needs to be privatised, without knowing the costs, or knowing if it will pay off. What specific tasks are to be taken over by the private sector, and why is this determined before the calculations are available?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-14.ana.ud1800e1426	Decommissioning activities shall contribute significantly to the conversion of the Defence to re-prioritisation of resources from support functions to higher priority activities. The main aim is to achieve more efficient operation of support activities through cooperation and partnership with private actors, thus increasing the focus on the core activities of Defence. Competitive outsourcing and exclusion of activities have been systematically used in the defence since 2001, when the Labour Party Council, Godal, took such action. The size was briefed on this in St.prp. No 45 for 2000-2001, and in Innst. S. No 342 for the 2000-2001 period, the Committee agreed on the main features of the proposal’s description of the areas of activity concerned for the outsourcing and exclusion of competition. Several competitive outsourcing/replacement projects are currently being implemented in relatively limited functional areas of the aid activity. In the military investigation of the Defence Manager of 8 December, it was proposed to consider the exclusion of all administrative support services and stationary logistics services at our bases, air stations and garrisons if appropriate in a total economic perspective. This includes, inter alia: management of property, construction and civil engineering, shooting and training fields, housing, all kinds of administrative tasks such as archives and mail, logistical support, pampering, warehousing and warehousing, maintenance and health services. I would like to stress that maintenance functions to be prepared for deployment to international operations are excluded from such exclusion assessments. The support supplies to the Defence Bases require a significant internal organisation and focus on these activities. Therefore, total deliveries of the entire stationary base support are considered to have a significant potential for profit. However, in order to assess the realism of the Defence Manager’s proposal, a pilot project will be carried out, and this is where Haakonsvern has been chosen as a pilot. However, I would like to clarify to the questioner that no decision has been made on the exception. Such a decision will, where appropriate, be taken after an assessment phase, where a comparison of its activities and costs and possible supplies by the external market is made. This means that both direct costs that can be read by accounts and indirect costs that cannot be read by accounts must be identified first. The evaluation phase of this pilot project will be the first six months of 2004, i.e. the decision will be taken only after the Grand Duchy has considered the Defence’s long-term plan for 2005-2008 before the summer holiday.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-14.ana.ud1800e1447	I thank the Council of State for the answer. At least I am glad that this, as stated in the evening post, should be a pilot project to which Hernes referred. I was actually a little worried about the privatisation. As the Council of State also pointed out, we have a cooperation agreement with the Government on defence policy during this four-year period, where we have agreed on a framework of NOK 118 billion, and I am very pleased about that. It turns out that it works, because what has happened up until now has been predictable. Therefore, I am a little surprised that this came up with privatisation. I have recorded that there have been some reactions to the military professional investigations. But I am pleased that the Council of State says that decision will only be taken after this has been for political treatment in Stortinget. I hope that we can continue to make an agreement after 2004, that the Right does not find new partners in terms of privatisation.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-14.ana.ud1800e1458	I would like to thank the questioner for what I see as a connection to the progress plan that we are drawing up, namely that this is being tested as a pilot project, but that the decision comes after thorough analysis and after the Stortinge has had an opportunity to say its word in the discussion of the four-year proposal. I would also like to take this opportunity to thank you for the good cooperation that has been between the Government and the Workers' Party on the modernisation of the defence. The wordings used by this Government on the exception are more or less identical to those used by the previous government of the Bjørn Tore Godal in St.prp. No 45 for 2000-2001 on just exception. I also record that there have been several statements by labour party politicians that are positive to Public Private Cooperation, without putting the same thing into it as in the old concept of privatisation.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-14.ana.ud1800e1465	I thank you again for the answer. I look forward to this pilot project, the pilot project, which will be presented by the Government. I hope that we in the Working Party can be involved, but we'll see what it looks like when it comes.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-14.ana.ud1800e1472	Does the Council of State want a comment?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-14.ana.ud1800e1475	No, I think there's a broad consensus here.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-14.ana.ud1800e1480	Then we go back to question 19.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-14.ana.ud1800e1488	‘Through the media it has become known that airlines operate ethnic discrimination through price, i.e. that Norwegians have to pay a higher price for an airline ticket than for example. a person from Pakistan or Vietnam. There are well-known airlines that also fly at Norwegian airports participating in this discrimination. Does the Council of State accept that such discrimination by airlines against the Nordics may continue, or will the Council of State ensure non-discrimination based on race, religion and ethnic origin?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-14.ana.ud1800e1495	The question asked by the representative Svendsen raises consumer and human rights issues as well as issues of transport policy. In accordance with consumer law, it is lawful to grant discounts to certain groups of persons, students, honorary customers, etc. However, if the criteria used are to be regarded as offensive or offensive on the basis of generally accepted and widespread standards in society, they could be contrary to the marketing law. Where discrimination takes place solely on the basis of the ethnic background of the purchaser, there is reason to believe that practice is unlawful. Persons who believe they are exposed to such practices have the opportunity to contact the Consumer Ombudsman. The 1999 Human Rights Act implements international conventions such as: prohibits discrimination in Norwegian law. Furthermore, under § 349a of the Criminal Code, it is prohibited to refuse any services under the conditions applicable to others, if the reason for the refusal is the person’s creed, race, skin colour or national or ethnic origin. Since I have no detailed knowledge of the cases referred to in the question, I have no basis for deciding whether these rules affect the kind of discrimination in question. I would also like to mention that there is a separate centre against ethnic discrimination, which assists in individual cases and which is working to prevent illegal discrimination. In order to strengthen legal protection against ethnic discrimination, in June 2002, a legislative committee gave its position NOU 2002:12, Legal protection against ethnic discrimination. The committee proposes a separate law prohibiting ethnic discrimination and a separate instrument to enforce the law. The Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs is working on a proposition on the basis of its position and aims to promote the bill for the Stortinget in the autumn of 2004. The aim is to prohibit discrimination on the basis, inter alia, of: ethnicity, skin colour, language, national origin, religion or outlook on life.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-14.ana.ud1800e1508	I thank you for your answer. It is clear that the Council of State is not fully up-to-date with what I address in the question. It is based on a large article on Monday 29 December in the VG. That article may be subsequently adopted by the Council of State so that it can take better account of it. As I read the article and also interpret the answer from the Council of State, it is quite obvious that this is a violation of several of the rules and laws we have in Norway. I also assume that this conflicts with the Constitution. I hope that the Council of State will take this into account. Because even if the individual passenger has the duty and the right to contact the Consumer Council or other bodies, it must also be an obligation for the public, and perhaps especially the minister, to intervene if there are obvious violations of the law. My question is whether the Council of State, having read this article, will continue to intervene and intervene if it is contrary to the law.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-14.ana.ud1800e1521	I have that article in the VG. But it is not always the case that an article in the VG, or in another newspaper for that matter, provides us with adequate information about how we should design policy. But the issue is very important. As I have pointed out, there are different rules in this area, and there is an opportunity to contact, among other things. to the Consumer Ombudsman, in addition to the possibility of legal review of such questions. I see it as very difficult to refuse airlines to land at Norwegian airports because it is possible that they operate discrimination on their flights through prices. I don't think that's the most effective way to tackle this problem. This may be a problem it is worth going further, but I find it difficult through the airport policy in Norway to tackle this.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-14.ana.ud1800e1530	I find it regrettable if it is the case that the Council of State has the article and has nevertheless not wanted to intervene. If you go further, we can actually have airlines that start flying in Norway where you allow only white or only black people on board. It'll be clear fractures. If action is not to be taken by the Ministry of Transport, at least the Government should intervene via a Council of State responsible for this. I would ask the Council of State to take initiatives against the relevant Councils of State and to get them to intervene and stop the discrimination that is taking place in this country based on race, religion or ethnic origin. It's just as wrong no matter who it is that is being discriminated against.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-14.ana.ud1800e1537	I fully agree that such discrimination as we have now talked about is not acceptable. I have described the legislation that is there today, and there is a regulatory framework under way, so it should be possible to deal with this without me taking care of it through the transport policy and airport policy. This is, as I said at the outset, well as much a human rights issue and a consumer issue as a transport policy issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-14.ana.ud1800e1542	We're now going back to question 8. This question, from the representative Finn Kristian Marthinsen to the Minister for Children and Family Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs, who will direct him.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-14.ana.ud1800e1548	‘Where decisions concerning children are taken by the authorities, the best interests of the child shall be taken into account in accordance with: The Children's Convention. Children live up to 4 and 1/2 years in reception. Someone's waiting for settlement, while others are afraid of deployment. All children in Norway are covered by the Child Protection Act. It is important that child protection provides children with the protection provided by law upon receipt. Does the Council of State believe that child protection is a good response to children in reception and will the Council of State strengthen administrative cooperation so that children in reception can be better cared for?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-14.ana.ud1800e1555	The best interests of the child are always given weight in foreign affairs involving children. Section 4 of the Foreign Affairs Act states that the law is to be applied in accordance with international rules Norway is bound by when these are intended to strengthen the foreigner's position. The foreign authorities always assess the relationship with the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child in the handling of issues involving children and several residence and work permits on the basis of ‘strong human interests’ are justified in the interests of the child. However, it is not that the child’s concern is always decisive or that it is clear what is best for the child. On the one hand, the long duration of residence in reception is linked to the long duration of proceedings for many, in particular when the case is assessed by both the Directorate of Foreign Affairs, the Department of Foreign Affairs and, in some cases, the courts, and it may take time to obtain verified information provided by the applicants. On the other hand, long residence in reception is linked to the refusal of parents to comply with the authorities’ obligation to leave the country after final rejection, or to the fact that they have applied for asylum in another European country and are awaiting emigration there under the Dublin Regulations, to which Norway has acceded. I agree, of course, that it is unfortunate that children stay in asylum receptions over several years, but believe it is the parents who have to bear responsibility for the situation they put their children in. I do not think it can be such that long stays in reception for children themselves should be a criterion for a residence permit, among other things. because we do not want a situation in which parents push their children in front of them to achieve just that, and because it could weaken the institution of asylum to protect people with a need for protection. Pursuant to Sections 4 to 2 and 4 to 3 of the Child Protection Act, child protection has an obligation to review, respectively, all the notices of concern received, including the receipt of children, and, where appropriate, to investigate the case and take action when deemed necessary. Receptions and other interested parties shall send a statement of concern where children are suspected of being seriously harmed, abused or similar. Several receptions have excellent cooperation with the Child Protection Service, but it may appear that both the receptions and child protection offices have different thresholds for, respectively, considering the need to send a notification of concerns and when action should be taken. I believe that there may be a need to assess whether clearer clarifications are necessary for the reception and the child protection office on this type of issue. In cooperation with the Minister of Health, I set up a working group last year that looks at mental health in reception. One of the follow-up points will be to initiate cooperation with the Ministry of Children and Family there, among others. This issue will be discussed.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-14.ana.ud1800e1566	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I agree that it is important not to push the children in front of you to support the case of your parents, but it is also important not to push your parents ahead and weaken the case of your children. That is what is my main concern in this matter. I allow myself to quote from the concluding remarks of the United Nations Committee on the Rights of the Child, paragraph 48, where it says in relation to Norway: ‘The Committee is concerned that the provisions and principles of the Children’s Convention are not fully respected in relation to children seeking asylum. In particular, the Committee considers that children seeking asylum are not given sufficient opportunity to participate in the examination of the asylum application and that their views are not sufficiently emphasised’... ‘Furthermore, the Committee considers that the treatment of asylum applications takes a long time’. The Children's Ombudsman says: ‘Ignorance and waiting are the worst enemies a child can have in matters they fear the outcome of.’ The UN Yearbook states that the introduction of the Children’s Convention does not necessarily mean that the results are particularly different from those previously achieved. Does the State Council consider that the Children's Convention is actually being followed up?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-14.ana.ud1800e1587	Yes, we believe the Children's Convention is being followed up. We also believe that in the matters that have been media-exposed, the Children's Convention has also been assessed. Some have also been assessed as to whether the Children’s Convention has been followed up in relation to Norwegian law. So it's clear that there's a follow-up to the Children's Convention in connection with Norwegian foreign legislation. So there is a limit to how far to go in relation to some stressful situations such as being an asylum seeker also leads to children. For example, it may be said that more attention can be paid to interviewing children in an interview situation alone to take account of their version of the case. But often it can also lead to a greater degree of fear, a more difficult situation and, in fact, an increased pressure on children. There are, therefore, many dilemmas about how to treat this also with regard to what is best for children. When I am concerned that there is no need to push children in front of me, it is because in all the cases that concern long-term children in reception, it is people who have used countless appeals – more than what the law really requires – to stay longer in Norway and who have refused to leave. If we don't have a principle view of this, we're going to have more children who suffer greater congestion in reception because we're giving hope to the parents who are not realistic.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-14.ana.ud1800e1596	In the Justice Committee we received a copy of a letter that some children wrote to the Prime Minister before Christmas. They represent a group they call SoHo, which stands for "See us and hear us." In this letter, these are written, among others.\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘Dear Prime Minister, we ask you for two things. Promise us that we can be safe at Christmas." It made sure that these children could be, according to the Christmas season that was given. That's what I thought was really nice. And the next thing they're saying is: ‘We also ask you, the head of the government, to make a rule that those who are children and have been here for more than three years will remain in their country. Do you hear us?" I could imagine asking if the Council of State has assessed these statements, which are the children's statements, and which they would like to have communicated to the management of this country?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-14.ana.ud1800e1613	Yes, I have heard, read and answered the letter. Giving a general amnesty or a rule that people get to stay here after a given number of years is probably the stupidest thing – I'm sorry to use that word in the big room – you can do if you want to prevent more children from being overburdened in the years to come. There are a number of countries that do not accept people who do not go home voluntarily because they have an interest in getting foreign exchange income to their own country by parents and children living in other parts of the world. So they don't cooperate with the governments of other countries to receive them. It makes it very difficult to return people who do not need protection to these countries, if you do not have strong incentives for them to cooperate voluntarily about it. Had we had a rule that generally allowed everyone to stay after three years, for example. If there were children, then we would have a large influx of people who do not need protection, but who would put their children under the pressure of being in a precarious situation for three years, waiting for them to be allowed to stay. This is a problem we see in many of the countries that have used amnesty at uneven intervals — it creates increased inflows.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-14.ana.ud1800e1624	Then we go to question 20.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-14.ana.ud1800e1631	I have a question for the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs: ‘Norway today has a higher immigration rate in relation to the population than the vast majority of European countries. Are the Councils of State willing to ensure that population projections are developed and made publicly available which show how large the population of immigrants will be in each municipality in 10, 25 and 50 years with current and other annual migration rates?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-14.ana.ud1800e1640	Statistical central agency produces population projections every three years providing different assumptions for immigration. The last population projection is from 2002 and is available to everyone on the Statistical Centre website. The assumptions in this projection are net immigration per year. years of 6000, 13000 and 20000 as well as an option without immigration. The projections are made for each year for all municipalities by 2020, and for the whole country by 2050. The statistical central agency's calculation model includes assumptions on net migration in the future, but immigrants are not treated as a separate category. In other words, immigrants have the same fertility, mortality and relocating behaviour as the entire Norwegian population. Last November, I gave a project assignment to the SSB. The aim is to assess whether it is possible to make a separate projection of the immigrant population. There is a great deal of interest in such information in Norway. At the same time, we need to recognise that it is complicated to describe the population, and especially the immigrant population, because the uncertainty is great. I am concerned that projections made are based on as realistic and professional a basis as possible. Questions to be addressed in the project that we have now asked the SSB to prepare include:How do you define an immigrant? How long should an immigrant be considered a migrant in a projection – is it one, two or more generations? For example, the question is also, Is the Crown Prince and the King immigrants or not according to this definition? It is a question that needs to be determined in relation to the extent to which the immigrant population is defined. What should be the prerequisites for the development of immigration, return, fertility, mortality and domestic migration among immigrants? It is also necessary to assess whether projections are to be made at national, regional and municipal level. I'm not going to decide if we can make projections for the immigration population now. Based on recommendations coming from this project, we will assess whether there is a basis for making projections of the immigrant population at national and municipal level that are more realistic and of satisfactory quality. It is an important premise in an area that is so delicate and creates many different associations, that the assumptions for projections and the categories used are actually realistic and good.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-14.ana.ud1800e1653	We have an immigration stop in this country, a law that says we should not have immigrants, but we accept asylum seekers. When asylum seekers come to the country and tear down their healthy travel documents, this does not indicate that they need protection. I myself was an immigrant to Brønnøysund in 1964, but I don't know if I'm good enough well-cleaning yet, and it's almost 40 years. You don't have to be a scientist for that. Of course, it is important to get population projections across the country. However, the geographical distribution of the immigration population is very uneven. This means that the situation in many counties and municipalities is completely different from the national average. Is it reasonable for each municipality to have an overview of the situation in its immediate environment?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-14.ana.ud1800e1662	Every three years, the SSB draws up projections for the population development of the individual municipality in which immigration is assumed. We can use it. the current date does not say anything systematically about where immigrants will live. For example, it will. depend on who comes to the country and which groups they belong to. It may depend on where there is a job to get. It's e.g. so that a large proportion of the Vardø population at one time were Tamils. When the fishing industry went too far in the 1990s, the municipality of Vardø was largely driven by a minority population of over 10pst. who were Tamils. Per. The current date is a significant small group in Vardø, because it no longer has a nutritional basis. Such assumptions are very difficult to deal with in some areas. Then we have other assumptions that can be easier to see. For example, in Finnmark there is a much greater degree of cross-border marriage. Thus, in relation to immigration, there is a greater proportion of Finnmark's population who have Russian background than there is in any other part of the country. These things maybe we can see just because of proximity. But we have to have a pre-work before we can say anything about how far you can go in relation to having a realistic level of this. I don't think it's a good idea to make statistics that's just 'think of a number'.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-14.ana.ud1800e1671	I thank you for your answer. The debate on immigration is often marked by sightings and loose claims. Therefore, it is important that most people have access to accurate information about what is actually happening at any time, and what to expect if the current trend continues. Is the Council of State concerned about getting more substance in the immigration debate in this way?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-14.ana.ud1800e1678	It is because of the need for factuality that I have commissioned the SSB to create a pre-project that can form the basis for whether we can get realistic studies or not. If we're going to have population projections that just go on the immigration population, I'm concerned that they should be realistic, and that there should be real prerequisites for such work, so that you don't end up in pure vision. It is very important to say that it is difficult to predict the future, especially in terms of population changes, and who will enter or leave this country, for some of it will depend very much on how attractive Norwegian society will be, among other things. for migrant workers in the coming years, and whether we are able to be attractive, so that we can maintain the welfare systems we have, by creating a larger population. In these pension spending and pension reform times, I think it is important to remember that we are going to need to be more people in this country at pre-employment age.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-14.ana.ud1800e1685	Question 21 has already been answered.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-14.ana.ud1800e1699	This question is deleted, as the questioner is not present.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-14.ana.ud1800e1705	I allow myself to ask the Minister for the Environment the following questions: ‘Hydro now announces that they will partially shift aluminium production from Norway to countries with lower environmental emission requirements. As you know, the state has a large holding in Hydro. What does the Council of State think of such an environmental imperialism?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-14.ana.ud1800e1714	The emission permits under the Pollution Act for all seven primary aluminium plants in Norway were revised by the State pollution control authority in 2000. The reason for the audit included: international requirements from both the EU through the IPPC Integrated Pollution Control and Control Directive and the OSPAR Convention for the Protection of the North-East Atlantic. Emission requirements are based on what Europe regards as best available techniques — BAT — for emissions to air from the aluminium industry. In practice, the requirements of the pollution authorities mean that the furnaces using the old southernberg technology, which generate the largest emissions of both greenhouse gases and substances such as the pollutant PAH, must be replaced. According to Hydro 6,5 pst, the installations in question are. of their total aluminium capacity in Norway. Environmental requirements for the production of aluminium have been addressed by the environmental authorities, inter alia: Årdal and Høyanger will take effect from 2007. The requirements are given to meet our international obligations, and are therefore in line with requirements imposed or will be imposed on similar establishments in other European countries. Although environmental requirements require investment in aluminium installations in Høyanger and Årdal, Hydro has not raised doubts about the correctness of environmental requirements. As I'm familiar with, Hydro is justifying its decision with overall strategic conditions. Hydro has given priority to the development of aluminium capacity in Norway at their Sunndalsøra site. Thus, it is not that there are the specific environmental requirements isolated that cause Hydro to warn against shutting down parts of the aluminium plants in Høyanger and Årdal. The government is busy and does what it can to ensure good framework conditions for Norwegian enterprises. Our starting point is that industrial policy and overall economic policy should contribute to a continued strong and competitive business life in Norway. Lower interest rates, weaker exchange rates and reduced taxes and charges have significantly strengthened the competitiveness of the Norwegian industry in recent years. I would like to stress that while Hydro has announced that they will not invest in Høyanger and Årdal, they are now finishing one of the biggest investments in mainland Norway, through the expansion of aluminium production on the Sunndalsøra. The commercial assessments of a listed company held by Norsk Hydro in the first row of the company. As one of many owners, the Government of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade cannot force the company to make concrete investments.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-14.ana.ud1800e1727	Now, I guess that's not exactly what I was asking. Of course, what the Council of State now informed me, I was aware in advance. My question was what the Minister for the Environment believes is that Norsk Hydro buys up in countries that do not have the environmental obligations we have in Norway, and then tell Norwegian politicians that no matter what you do with Norwegian requirements, we are going to lay down jobs here anyway. So it's kind of environmental imperialism, where one exploits other parts of the world that don't have the requirements we have in Norway. That's what was my question. I think the council answered very well in the spontaneous questioning here earlier today, and I had hoped that he would follow this up in relation to the situation that is now in Hydro.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-14.ana.ud1800e1732	Thank you for the comment attached to the round we had in the spontaneous question time. Of course, it is not good if I did not respond to what was the main intention behind the question to the representative Klungland, but I must admit that it was not that we had not studied the question, which was the reason for it. That's what I now answered, which we thought the representative was looking for. What I now understand is the representative’s point is that in the EU and the EEA region, among other things, it is through. The IPPC Directive has made so-called BAT requirements, i.e. to have the best available technology. That's also what Hydro used on the Sunndalsøra. At Sunndalsøra, Hydro has built one of the world's most modern and one of the really big aluminiumworks in the world. I think it also belongs to nuance the picture. I agree with the representative that it is not acceptable over time that we do not get large trading partners like Japan and the United States to impose stricter environmental requirements.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-14.ana.ud1800e1741	Then I would like to thank you for the answer, which was more clarifying. But in relation to what appeared earlier in the spontaneous questioning session here today, I still have a question. I was not quite satisfied with the answer that was given then either, because the Minister for the Protection of the Environment there also warned that nevertheless there would be strange charges in Norway in relation to what was going on in the quota and emissions of greenhouse gases. It helps to exacerbate the global environmental situation if we impose on the industry strange taxes that make them move to this type of country, as Hydro has now partly done, so that emissions worldwide get higher. The State Council has now been declared the World Environment Minister. Does the Minister for the Environment not see the problem in view of the fact that if industry is brought down here in Norway, will it lead to higher emissions globally?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-14.ana.ud1800e1746	I understand that I was a little quick out thanking for the compliments attached to my answer in the spontaneous question hour. I understand that it was attached to parts of the answer. What the representative is concerned with is the issue of greenhouse gases and requirements in relation to the process industry in Norway. Now it is the case that the greenhouse gas emissions generated by the process industry in Norway account for less than 30 pst. of the total Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions – a large share but, fortunately, decreasing. In the EU, greenhouse gases from the process industry represent 5 pst. When we are going to deliver in relation to the Kyoto Protocol, we need to make improvements in the process industry as well. It has so far delivered the process industry, but they are also willing to deliver more. I am in a very good dialogue with the process industry to get commitments that industry accepts, but that they also provide good climate policy, so that Norway can be able to meet its commitments under the Kyoto Protocol.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-14.ana.ud1800e1757	I will ask the Minister for the Environment the following questions: ‘In the media, the Council of State has indicated that it considers that Koseturs on snowmobiles for pensioners are unproblematic in relation to the Motor Travel Act. It is also the perception of pensioners and non-governmental organisations that have organised such excursions for decades, but are now denied by the County Council of South-Trundelag. Will the Council of State ensure that dispensation can be granted to the State so that such trips can be re-arranged in certain cases during the current season?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-14.ana.ud1800e1766	On questions from the County of Southern Tribe, I have explained the laws, regulations and guidelines that apply to motor travel in the field. It is the municipalities and, in the next instance, the county that are responsible for examining applications for motor traffic in line with the legislation in force at all times. At the same time, I would like to remind you that it is the same legislation that applies to motor travel in the outland today, which has been in force in the Norwegian Mountain Home for many decades. The reason for the question raised by the representative is therefore not a change in the rules on my part, but in the enforcement of the legislation in force by the county. In Norway, we have relatively strict rules for snowmobile driving. Without such rules, tens of thousands of motorised vehicles currently in Norway could drive anywhere and at any time, with great damage to wildlife and outdoors. Studies show that most people want restrictions on motorised outland traffic. One does not want to be free of snowmobile driving into Norwegian national parks and in Norwegian mountain homes. At the same time, today’s legislation opens up the necessary motor traffic by making a clear distinction in legislation between utility driving and so-called pleasure driving. This means that it is permitted for residents to take on rental services for commercial purposes and it is permitted to use snowmobiles for the carriage of baggage, the carriage of passengers by means of carriage and the transport of workers destined for cabins. The legislation also allows municipalities to grant exemptions on application for special needs, provided – as has been specified – that the purpose is not linked to driving. There are undoubtedly examples of illegal wild game driving that do more damage than one annual retirement trip in old areas. On the other hand, a general opening for pleasure driving may have more extensive consequences than satisfying the needs of those with whom the questioner has in mind. If we are to have legislation that applies different rules to pensioners than to other groups, there can also be new grey areas. At the same time, I record that others again warn against liberalising the legislation. As minor changes in legislation may mean major changes in practice, I believe that any adjustments to motor vehicle traffic legislation need to be considered in an overall context. I have therefore started a test project in eight selected municipalities, which is attempting to test local motor traffic management. The test runs out in 2004 and is to be evaluated in 2005. When the evaluation report is available, the Ministry of the Environment will decide whether to amend the Motor Traffic Code. In such an evaluation, it would be natural to assess a number of issues related to motor vehicle traffic legislation, including whether the practice on the issue raised by the representative Lund is too square in relation to the intentions behind the Motor Traffic Act.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-14.ana.ud1800e1781	I thank you for the answer, but I wonder if we're talking about the same problem, about the same scooter tours. What I'm talking about are single trips, a few, maybe ten trips in a year, in the South-Trundellag state, where in the individual case the law is applied for, and where there can be demands to pass it is run, and the way it is run, by those who grant the dispensation. This has been tradition, it's been running here for many, many years, and then suddenly it's not allowed. It reacts negatively to it, and the pensioners don't realize that they've been lawbreakers by doing what they've done before. I think it is damaging to the environment that it appears as square as the Council of State is now describing it, that one should carry out trials and overall assessment in order to be able to say yes. Because it is not possible to maintain the strict practices currently in place. I think there's a large majority in the Storting and otherwise among the people that pensioners who can't otherwise get up in the mountains will be allowed to take these trips. Is it not possible to say to the statesmen that here it is possible to enforce the rules we have, just as flexibly as I have now suggested?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-14.ana.ud1800e1786	As I said, the department hasn't changed these regulations a bit. It's the same regulations that have been in force for decades, even when the Senter Party put in government and didn't do anything to change these regulations. They open up for discretion. But what it doesn't open up to is just fun driving, where you don't have to bring baggage into a cabin, where you don't have to bring a disabled person into a cabin, where it's not about, for example. near to a cabin. What is the difficulty here is to define what is pure pleasure driving if there are no pensioners inside the picture. If a youth wants to drive the same trip, are they going to get yes, or are they going to get no, since they're not retired? That is the question that needs to be considered and assessed in this context. But as I said, you're out of your mind and you don't get into your cabin, you get to use the scooter into the cabin – that's what you're allowed to do. If you have your luggage in, you will be allowed to do so. So the question back to the representative is whether it makes sense for the Central Party to allow one to drive into the national parks for pure pleasure, without there being any concrete reason behind it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-14.ana.ud1800e1791	The scope has been changed in the enforcement of these rules. That's why the question comes up. It is in the last two years that the judgement has become so strict that the trips that have taken place for 20 to 30 years can no longer take place. This discretion has been changed by bureaucrats, and it is now blessed by the Council of State. It was not relevant when we were in the government, to raise the question, because there were no complaints about the judgement that was. But the complaints have come now. It is not the case that there is an infectious effect of a few retirement trips being approved under special conditions. It does not trigger rough driving and wildman driving by young people or by others. This question was an invitation to the Council of State to say that we understand that this is problematic in relation to the legal opinion of ordinary people, that day trips to mountains with pensioners are not an environmental problem, that the non-governmental organisations that want to arrange these trips do not invite them to crime. There was an invitation to the Council of State, and I say one more time: Is it not possible for the Council of State to say that this problem he understands, and now he is going to deal with the statesmen?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-14.ana.ud1800e1796	In fact, it is not that a government council can also impose on a state how to define and interpret regulations. The regulations have not been amended, it is the beauty of the county. Then I haven't blessed that understanding either. What I have done is to explain the legislation, that I think there is reason to go through the legislation. It should be evaluated, and we're going to do that, so it's an extended hand to the representative. I think he should have accepted that. In addition, I would like to remind you that retired people who are disabled are getting brushed into the cabin saying today on the scooter. You also brought your luggage up to the cabin with the scooter. You also get used scooters for transporting wood. Exemptions for use by scooters are granted for commercial use. What has not been opened in Norway, however, is pure pleasure tours where you sit on the scooter and drive freely into the national parks. It is not open in Norway, and it also turns out that 80 pst. In an opinion poll, you don't want it to be free to drive scooters whenever you want, where you want, in the Norwegian mountain resort.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-14.ana.ud1800e1801	Case No. So 1 is done.
