ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-05-lower.ana.ud321e31	The representative, Arne Sortevik, will make a private bill.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-05-lower.ana.ud321e34	On behalf of the representatives of Ursula Evje, Karin S. Woldseth, Jan Arild Ellingsen and myself, I have the pleasure of making proposals for a change to the training law so that the police will be required hereafter from people applying for work also in high school.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-05-lower.ana.ud321e39	The legislative proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-05-lower.ana.ud321e53	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-05-lower.ana.ud321e60	The profoundly tragic loss of the cargo ship «Rocknes» on 19 January of this year reminded us of the serious consequences that a ship accident can cause, both for those involved, for their relatives and for the environment. Safety at sea is a theme that embraces me and the Christian People's Party strongly. We need to learn from the errors that led to the ‘Rocknes’ loss, and to take preventive action if it turns out that current rules and practices are inadequate. An overall Justiscomite highlights in Ot.prp. No 28 for 2003-2004 the importance of preventing oil spill damage from oil tankers and other ships. Such work must be done both nationally and internationally. It is particularly important that the Norwegian authorities focus on this theme in bilateral talks with representatives of nations carrying oil along our long-range coast. There is little help if Norwegian registered ships are solid, if other countries’ tankers are too rusty to count. Liability to prevent oil spills and loss of life at sea is an international concern. Fortunately, serious oil spill damage from oil tankers rarely occurs. Just as fully, it's important to take into account that this can happen, and that the consequences of the damage can be dramatic. Last June, with 102000 tonnes of crude oil on board engine stop 19 nautical miles outside of Honningsvåg and Nordkap, ‘M/T Moscow’ received 190000 tonnes of crude oil on board. With less favourable conditions, this could be a disaster. We must therefore follow the precautionary principle. It is gratifying that the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights in the vote states that Norway should be associated with financial compensation schemes for oil pollution in all areas. Norway has acceded to the International Convention on Civil Liability for Oil Pollution Damage of 27 November 1992 and to the International Convention of 27 November 1992 on the Establishment of an International Fund for the Compensation of Oil Pollution Damage, which has already been implemented in Norwegian law by the Law of the Sea, Chapter 10. It is important to stress that these conventions relate exclusively to oil spill damage from oil tankers. Who is liable for oil spills from ships other than oil tankers is governed by the Law of the Sea and the Pollution Act. This implies that the liability of oil spills, such as: the ship «Rocknes» is lost has been protected by existing laws. However, Norway has signed a new Convention on the Liability of Bunker Oil Beers, such as: imposes an insurance obligation in respect of such liability as well as objective liability. The Committee, in its observations, asks the Government to present a case to the Grand Duchy with a view to ratifying this Convention as soon as possible. In the proposition we are discussing today, the Government proposes that Norway accede to the so-called 2003 Supplementary Fund Protocol. In practice, accession to the Protocol will serve as an additional disaster response in the event of exceptional oil spills where the existing arrangements are not sufficient to provide the victims with full compensation. The existing international conventions for compensation for damage caused by oil spills provide for a maximum of approx. Two billion Norwegian kronor. Following the 2003 Supplementary Fund Protocol, this amount will be increased to approx. NOK 7.5 billion. An overall committee considers that there is a need to increase the legal protection of victims of any oil spill disaster in Norway and therefore supports accession. The Committee also supports the proposed amendments to the Maritime Act, which are mainly a consequence of accession.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-05-lower.ana.ud321e86	A coastal state such as Norway, with a long and vulnerable coast, needs additional protection against oil disasters. This 2003 Supplementary Fund Protocol, to which we now agree, provides additional financial protection in the event of a major oil disaster. The Protocol establishes an additional fund for oil spill damage from oil tankers. This will be added to existing international mechanisms for compensation for such oil spillage. In practice, it will act as an additional disaster response in the case of exceptionally large oil accidents where the existing systems will not provide full compensation to the victims. The world has been largely eloquent from major oil disasters. However, the ‘Erika’ accident in France in 1999 and the Prestige accident in Spain in 2002 showed that the amount of compensation under existing schemes was not enough. Therefore, an initiative has been taken to extend the compensation schemes. The ‘prestige’ accident in Spain contaminated not only the beautiful Spanish Atlantic beaches but a whole fishing industry destroyed its food supply for many years to come. This requires considerable financial compensation. Good fund and insurance arrangements are important to cover losses in the event of an accident. But I would like to stress that it is not often enough that the most important thing is to prevent and prevent oil spills. For Norway, with a long-haul coast, it is particularly important to have good compensation arrangements for accidents. Our tough climate and darkness time make us extra vulnerable. In addition, ecology is particularly vulnerable to the north. The cases of oil spills along the Norwegian coast have been caused by fuel oil from other types of ships that have crashed. However, the risk of oil spills from large oil tankers has increased in recent years. Russia is increasingly transporting oil from its ports in the northern regions. This results in increased transport of oil along the Norwegian coast. We received an important warning last summer about the danger present, as the 100,000 tanker M/T ‘Moscow’ had an engine stop outside the North Cape with 102,000 tonnes of crude oil on board. By comparison, ‘Prestige’ had 77000 tonnes of oil on board. The Labour Party fully endorses this additional protocol and also supports the changes we are now making in the Maritime Act in this respect.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-05-lower.ana.ud321e101	In recent years we have witnessed accidents at sea in which oil spills from oil tankers have damaged and contaminated the sea and land. The last two major cases are ‘Erika’ in France in 1999 and ‘Prestige’ in Spain in 2002. I well remember TV pictures from there with seared beaches, dead birds and large drifting oilflakes. It was frightening to see the large damage. For Norway, which is a shipping nation and has a long coastline, it is particularly important to be connected to funds covering the rescue work after oil spills. The problem for shipping is that once things go wrong, things can really go wrong. And that is of course why Norway has to participate in arrangements such as the International Convention on the Establishment of an International Fund for the Compensation of Oil Pollution Damage. For ultimately, safety along the coast can only be ensured through binding international cooperation. In order to safeguard our own coasts and protect marine areas from environmental disasters, we also rely on international agreements that impose high demands on, among other things. education and skills, competent operational organisations and high technical standards. We also rely on strict international requirements for the follow-up of ships by flag States under their own flag. The government is concerned with shipping policy. It has alerted a Storing Message this spring with a focus on, among other things. environment and safety. Developments in international shipping have implications for Norway, and I am therefore pleased that we here at Stortinget will have a comprehensive review of shipping policy. Fortunately, until now, Norway has been adorned with large oil spills. Pictures from Vatlestraumen in Bergen show us that even smaller emissions of oil can do much local damage. To make a comparison with the accidents I mentioned in the introduction, it can be mentioned that when Prestige crashed outside Spain, it had 77 000 tonnes of oil on board. ‘Rocknes’ had in comparison only 530 tonnes. This means that the oil beer that's come out into the Vatlesroom is just a tiny fraction of what we risk from waste if an oil tank falls off our coast. It also shows that if an oil tank fails, there is a much more extensive rescue and clean-up work that needs to be done. Oil beer from oil tankers is a heavy burden on the environment and costs huge sums to clean up. Just a few days ago, ExxonMobile was sentenced by the Alaska District Court to pay NOK 46.6 billion in compensation and interest after the oil spill from the exxon Valdez ship in Alaska in 1989. 32,000 fishermen, natives, landowners, businessmen and municipalities in Alaska were awarded this compensation because they were injured after 39,000 tonnes of oil leaked from the basic oil tanker ‘Exxon Valdez’. The ecological disaster that occurs in such oil spills causes the society to incur extensive economic repair costs in retrospect. Once the accident is over, at least all forces must be deployed to get the oil out of the wreck and up out of the sea. You can make trouble about the bill later. That being said, it is of course we, as politicians, who are responsible for the adoption of laws and the drafting of rules clarifying liability. The minimum degree of uncertainty about responsibilities provides the basis for an effective and coordinated operation. The many individuals who make a first-class effort have an obvious demand for clear guidelines. Participation in such a fund as we now join helps to ensure clarity about financing the rescue work. The right-hand starting point is that the polluter must pay. The system we are a part of already, and as we continue to do, provides for a two-layer liability system. First, the owner has an insurance obligation and further damage shall be covered by the fund. The Fund is financed by a levy for those importing oil. The protocol we are now applying means that the amount of compensation paid in the event of such major accidents will be raised from the present day's approx. NOK 2.3 billion for a total of DKK 7.5 billion. I hope that we will never experience an oil spill disaster in Norway, but at the same time I am pleased that arrangements are now being put in place to ensure a complete clean-up should the accident first occur.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-05-lower.ana.ud321e124	This is a positive case for Stortinget. Sometimes we have a variable starting point when we discuss a matter, but here there is an overall committee that agrees to be more able to prevent accidents and clean up after accidents with major environmental consequences. I am also pleased to hear the assurance from the representative Deepevig that the Government will continue to invest in maritime safety. That is reassuring, and we welcome that. We are excited about the content of the message. It is clear that the assumption and intention here is to have a – shall we call it – safety belt when we end up with loss and emissions that will lead to great environmental consequences. If the scope is of such size as some tankers would be able to apply to the ship's ladder and the areas they pass, then the consequences will be so great that you are completely dependent on having the economy to intervene and clean up afterwards. That's why it makes sense to gather under these umbrella organisations that you add up here. In other words, sometimes it makes sense to find good and effective common solutions. I also think that one of the most important things is to take into account that the extent, the size of it, becomes so large that one country will have problems taking the cleanup alone. I think it'll be that insurance companies have to get a new and wider horizon in order to cover this up. I don't want to go into the details, as I said. There are several others who have done before me. But I want to end with the following: it is to hope that the need to make use of this scheme will be small. The strength is that the scheme is in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-05-lower.ana.ud321e137	As we all know, and we have unfortunately experienced an example of this in recent times, with the loss of «Rocknes», there are regularly tragic shipping accidents in which human lives are lost or the environment is exposed to oil spills, or both. I am concerned with continuously working to improve safety at sea and to improve the protection of victims in the event of an accident. I am therefore very pleased that the Committee has agreed unanimously that Norway should accede to the new Protocol of 2003 to the International Oil Pollution Conventions, which is aimed at the case of oil spills from oil tankers, such as the accidents with ‘Erika’ and with ‘Prestige’. As we saw from these accidents, the losses of oil spills from a large oil tank can be huge, especially when it hits a coastline where people largely live from the harvesting of natural resources on the coast, and tourism, as in many places in Norway. Fortunately, we have not had any such oil spills as with ‘Erika’ and ‘Prestige’ in Norway, but also here such an accident can happen. With the new protocol, SEK 7.5 billion will be available to the victims of an oil spill accident with an oil tanker. Today it is approx. NOK 2.5 billion available. So with this protocol, we get a triple of the funds available to the victims of oil spills. This shows that Norway’s international work within the IMO Maritime Organisation produces results, and Norway will continue this important work to improve maritime safety and related compensation systems.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-05-lower.ana.ud321e150	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-05-lower.ana.ud321e158	The odelsting shall vote on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-05-lower.ana.ud321e326	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-05-lower.ana.ud321e336	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
