ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-01.ana.ud1667e40	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament for the remainder of the current week – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-01.ana.ud1667e45	I suggest Kjell Engebretsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-01.ana.ud1667e50	The Kjell Engretsen has been proposed as President. – Other proposals are not available, and Kjell Engebretsen is unanimously elected president of Stortinget’s remaining meetings for the current week. The representative of Øyvind Korsberg will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-01.ana.ud1667e55	On behalf of the big business representatives Øyvind Vaksdal, Kenneth Svendsen and myself, I would like to propose the introduction of a reduced fee for environmental gasoline.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-01.ana.ud1667e60	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-01.ana.ud1667e74	At the request of the Committee on Family, Cultural and Administrative Affairs, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 40 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Right 20 minutes, Advance Party and Socialist Left Party 15 minutes each, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Center Party, Left and Coast Party 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers of each party group, and five lines with replies after the posts of members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-01.ana.ud1667e85	The work on the Culture Communication has been a comprehensive process. The notification covers the entire central cultural area, including all arts. The Ministry has done a thorough job, in which there has been extensive contact with cultural actors, not least in several investigations in individual areas, such as opera and theatre. The expectations of cultural life have been formidable. The Committee had 60 hearings, each of which has had considerable contact with organisations and individuals who have had a lot of heart. This has been a good process, in which many issues have arisen, and the Committee also presents a relatively comprehensive position for the Storting. It will lead too far to describe the Committee's priorities in each area. I assume that the individual party itself will describe its priorities and its political position in the debate. Let me therefore only note that the Government has received broad support for the message from a clear majority in the Stortinget. The cultural policy of the right begins with the individual. The ability and the ability of each of us to experience culture, and to participate ourselves, represents fundamental values in our lives. Our cultural competence gives us the ability to understand and live into the society we live in. The strength of our cultural competence gives room for diversity in our way of life, and good cultural competence is the best starting point for each of us from our post to deliver our best to the community. So high cultural competence is a central criterion for a good society where the goal is quality at all stages. Art represents the central arenas for the development of our cultural competence. Here we find arenas for joy, the processing of emotions, social criticism, creative work, play with themes to reflect and illustration of serious questions we also have to approach in our real life. So art plays a central role in our society in addition to purely entertainment. This gives us a need to ask what qualities our time requires. Quality is a relative concept. Quality cannot be adopted. The visibility of what is the quality requirements of our time must take place through public debate and democratic processes, where our political priorities are one of several elements. Quality is a demanding theme that I can't go into here in its full width. Let me just say that I deeply disagree with those who claim that quality cannot be discussed and that it cannot be used as a political criterion. Of course, we can, and of course we should give such a discussion of quality a great deal of weight. From the Right’s point of view, the quality requirement, practically politically, is closely linked to the need for diversity. Right wants the so-called narrow expressions to also have the right to life. We want a breadth that gives freedom to development and the basis for creative processes far beyond the bounds of cultural life. We want the culture that is not primarily thought of as relaxing entertainment to be available when we need it. We want the presence of the artistic expressions that make us feel unfamiliar, find new associations and think of the thoughts that we didn't think were there. Manifestation is also a prerequisite for freedom. The free position of art is, in the Right's view, an important element of our democratic system as a natural part of what we put in our fundamental right to freedom of expression. Real diversity requires broad funding, choice and breadth among relevant policy-makers. For the right, the market is part of diversity. The market reflects trends and movements in the population no one else can capture. So for the Right, the market is not an enemy or an active front of culture, as the socialist parties often emphasize. The market is democratic, it represents us all. In this sense, the market can be seen as the collective input to the diversity of cultural life. However, the right has always recognised that the market has its clear limitations in relation to important cultural policy needs, perhaps particularly related to quality and diversity. The commercial mechanisms act marginalisingly on those parts of the market that are small and unprofitable. This is why the right considers it important to use significant public funds in cultural policy, which we will also do in the years to come. Right supports the cultural message's ambitions to significantly increase public exposure and bet in important areas. But unilateral state funding can also mean unification. Few channels with one-sided recruitment can provide cultures where prevailing tastes and narrow perceptions of what's good, and what's bad, get dominated. When, in the coming years, we aim at increasing public efforts, we should have a keen eye on how this is going to happen, and in what ways we can also get private stakeholders. Tax incentives and fund-based solutions are examples of what we should look at more closely. The right will also point to municipalities as important actors in terms of diversity. Local politicians play a central role in tackling the fires and stimulating the emergence of projects. The local cultural exposure is large, and the Right is sure that local politicians will secure the cultural goods for their inhabitants. You obviously don't think so in the socialist camp. Under the guise of a allegedly poor municipality economy, they are still trying to take the lead in the municipalities. Designation of state grants, and now the desire for a cultural law, have gone in the wrong direction. Local politicians need greater trust and responsibility, not more governance. Municipality-Norway needs fewer laws and earrings, no more earrings and a culture law on it. The Culture Communication confirms a new course for the relationship of Norwegian cultural life with other countries and cultures. It's probably the most important perspective this cultural message draws up. The epoch of national construction is over, and in practice we are already in an era of cultural cooperation regardless of national borders. Norwegian artists seek the environments they think they get the best professional benefit from, regardless of which country it is in. This is a positive development, and in the years to come, we have to do a thorough job to stimulate international participation in culture. Globalization gives us a co-responsibility for developing in the world society a climate of fruitful encounters between cultures. History has shown us that this is no obvious thing to do. But history has also shown us that the most important cultural advances have happened just where cultures meet. It is important, in this context, to draw on the experience of those in our country who work internationally in practice. Contemporary field does this. Norwegian network of electronic art, Network of Performing Arts, many of the free groups, festivals such as the Ultima Festival and October dance and more with them are on important experiences and have a good basis for further development. What characterises the contemporary field is their practical experience. International work must be about working together, experiencing together, not just visiting each other. Office for Contemporary Art, OCA, is a good example of such practical work. The right is also very enthusiastic about Stavanger's efforts to become the European Capital of Culture. Here we have a good opportunity to strengthen important links with Europe, which is very important for Norwegian cultural environments. We have noted with interest how Norwegian regions also strengthen their contact networks towards regional cultural work within the EU. This also gives new perspectives for more regional thinking in Norwegian cultural policy. To the right, this is an interesting discussion we will see in connection with our efforts to strengthen the communities of our country. From the Right’s point of view, there is no contradiction between the desire for a stronger internationalisation and the desire to strengthen the efforts to preserve our cultural heritage – rather on the contrary. In the globalised world, it is a common cause for humanity to care for the cultural diversity of the earth. It gives each country particular responsibility for this. For Norway, this reinforces the arguments for the preservation of our cultural heritage. On the right, much will be done to ensure that the commitments attached to the previous processing of the ABM message, i.e. the message about archives, libraries and museums, are followed up. We are well pleased with the willingness to convert we have now seen within the museum field, and we look forward to getting hold of the archives and libraries. The right is also very pleased that an entire committee ends up taking a roof for the craft traditions in our country. Many craftsmanship is threatened by closure. It is important to improve the framework conditions so that this knowledge does not disappear. In this context, there must be an overall approach to education, market access and related evidence. Norwegian craftsmanship development should be central to this work. This cultural message takes the Church as a theme for the first time. Right-wing welcome this. The Church has a central place in our cultural history and is still an important venue for artistic expressions. The cultural area has always been a meeting between the stock exchange and the cathedral. Today, cultural industries represent one of the strongest growing economic sectors in the Western world. This will mean new political challenges in the coming years. Achieving flexible arrangements that function both in relation to the market and in relation to cultural policy objectives becomes very important. For example, if we are not long, we are faced with important decisions in relation to the book industry, where industry agreements and fixed prices become issues. On the right, the growing mutual interest between culture and business is challenging and full of opportunities. We want to stimulate increased cooperation. We are convinced that both cultural life and business have a lot to gain from harvesting skills from each other. It has to be a goal in the years to come, that we have the power to establish meeting places where such cooperation can happen better and to a greater extent than today. The work done by SIVA, Innovation Norway and the Forum for Culture and Business is of the utmost importance to the right. When these establishments have gained more experience in a few years, it will be of great interest to carry out an evaluation in order to better provide a basis for a clearer policy in this area. A particularly challenging area is to fill the great need we have to develop content online. As new and more advanced solutions are being disseminated on increasingly smaller and more transportable appliances, those working on design, animated images, choreography, i.e. movement, and a number of other subjects face demanding tasks, but amazing opportunities. It is very important for cultural policy that we build a good and recognizable way of home. Making sure that we have good Norwegian producers and content suppliers in the future is very important. We need to strengthen our focus on how to make the best effort to get them to work. We look forward to good results. The government's efforts to establish mechanisms to strengthen Norwegian electronic game production are an important step forward. The Culture Communication is very comprehensive and the Committee's comments have covered the individual fields in detail. It's going to be impossible, as I said, to go into the individual areas and projects. The Culture Communication also invites, first and foremost, a principle approach. With regard to the Right's position in the individual areas such as theatre, music, literature, etc., I refer to our remarks. In conclusion, let me point out that globalisation, technological development, the changes in the way in which we live, and the strong economic interests that will gradually be linked to the cultural field, will lead to cultural policy being very central in the years to come. Our common main role is to ensure that future Norway has a rich cultural life, where quality, openness and dynamism are important characteristics. I wish for my children what the other American president, John Adams, wanted for his descendants in 1797. In a speech he talked about building the business of the new nation, he stressed that they would cultivate the country and travel the factories, so that their descendants could find time for philosophy, literature and music. We who live today have more opportunities for this than anyone before. Let's seize the chance and work on these things, and let's make sure that our children also get the opportunities we've had.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-01.ana.ud1667e136	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-01.ana.ud1667e139	The cultural message setting draws new fronts and dividing lines in cultural policy. Traditionally, there has been a distinction between the Progress Party and the other parties. Today we see that the division has moved. The distinction goes between the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre Party on one side and the Government Parties and the Advance Party on the other. The main division is between the parties who want to commit themselves to saying that culture and art are an area that should be as committed to bet on as other areas. The government parties at the Olemic Thommess react to it with the following statement in the Evening Post: «A populist play.» It is clear that he believes that the bet we put up is irresponsible. My question is, why is it responsible to add up to $30 billion in defence action plans, to research €10 billion and to transport $10 billion when it comes to investing $130 million? kr a year on culture and art is irresponsible?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-01.ana.ud1667e146	Let me first distance from the division into two wings for which the representative Giske made himself a spokesman. There's a deep gap between the government parties and the Progress Party. I take a strong distance from being put in the same booth. I think the debate we are going to have today, on many points, will show how much that difference is. With regard to the bet that the representative Giske refers to, I just want to say that it's not so terribly much bigger than the government party actually stands for. If you look at the ambition that lies in the message of culture, it also means a dramatic increase in the years to come. From the last year's budget to the year's budget, the increase in the cultural budget of the government parties was approx. 158 million. kr, which is more than the annual amounts that the representative Giske will signal in the future. Hanging up in a number, as you've done, I might be allowed to come back later.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-01.ana.ud1667e155	No, it's no longer the party against smoke, as the representative Giske says. That's so far, but the smokes have now split into two. That's the difference. To the right: the right is talking about breadth, while the right seems to want to promote elite culture by channeling huge sums to Oslo, billions to opera, and probably also billions to the new National Museum of Art. Does the Right consider that broad culture is adequately resourced, and that the distribution of state resources between Oslo and the rest of the country is fair?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-01.ana.ud1667e162	It's natural, and it's right that a capital has central institutions. The National Museum of Art was mentioned. It's a combination of institutions that already lie in Oslo, and so it doesn't represent any increase. If the representative Woldseth had attended the class, she'd see that we've put a lot of emphasis on how these institutions are going to work across the country. The link between e.g. The National Exhibitions and the future National Museum of Art will, of course, mean that the competence base that lies there will mean mass for the development in the field of visual arts across the country. I therefore think it is not difficult to defend that we should have solid professional institutions in Oslo that are the backbone of the qualitatively good cultural life that we want.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-01.ana.ud1667e167	The rapporteur places great emphasis on the importance of the market for Culture-Norway. He also points to poor municipal economy, and is concerned that the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre will oblige municipalities to use cultural money. Now we have put a significant increase in our budget, and our future thoughts are clear on that. But he goes on to say that the government parties will spend considerable public money on culture. At the same time, the comments from the government parties state that it is considered that: ‘The public contributions shall support those activities which do not themselves have commercial sustainability but are necessary to maintain diversity and quality’. They also say, ‘Growth of commercial cultural production places new demands on instruments and leads in relation to the public contributions made.’ Could the rapporteur be a little more specific about what government parties will use significant public cultural resources for?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-01.ana.ud1667e182	Olemic Thommess is once again given the opportunity to come up with the numbers. [[The representative runs small.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-01.ana.ud1667e187	The president doesn't expect a walk.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-01.ana.ud1667e191	Being light on your foot also has to do with culture, and it has to do with enthusiasm, and this is something I'm very enthusiastic about. I'm going to jump back and forth. When you go through the notes, you will see that there is field after field in theatre, music and literature where we signal increased use of funds. But what SV's later to ignore is that cultural life has a huge commercial share. The book industry and the film industry have a huge commercial-based economy. We have to deal with it, with a balance point as to how we use public funds against this commercial reality we are facing. The book industry is an example – the book industry is on its own, but we have accepted an industry agreement across the Competition Act. We have introduced a VAT exemption to support those things in this which we consider to be of cultural policy importance, namely quality and diversity.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-01.ana.ud1667e198	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-01.ana.ud1667e201	A cultural debate is becoming a very fast debate on numbers, on concrete individual institutions and individual projects. But really, this debate on the Communication of Culture, Culture Policy towards 2014, should be one of the most important and general debates we had here in this house. Culture is not the decoration of the cake that is left after everything else is baked. Culture is the very lifeblood, the very basis of the activity we are engaged in, and is cross-sectoral and cross-sectoral. In this way, the message of culture might have drawn an even broader picture of the direction in which our culture, our way of life and our situation in life are heading. The cultural message was received with excitement last autumn. It was a long preliminary work, several governments had been involved, and now the big visions were to be drawn up. It must be said that what we got became a disappointment. Both in the political environment and in cultural life, it was agreed that the Culture Communication gave a good description of today's cultural policy and the current cultural situation. But it was difficult to find the clear vision, the big goals we were going to reach towards the 200th anniversary of the Constitution in Norway. ‘Culture lift’ was a word that was absent from the message — ‘obligatory bet’ was equally distant. That's why it was absolutely necessary when we went into this process, to start by asking where we're going to be in 2014. What cultural nation do we want to be? What ambitions and objectives do we want Norway to achieve when we come to the anniversary of the Constitution? The Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV have been working closely together in cultural policy for several years, and it was natural to work together for a common cultural promise. We said that we are as willing to commit in this area as the Storting is in other areas of policy. Our vision is that art and culture should not be a luxury, it is simply a necessity for life as it is as important that the Stortinget and national policies take care of and facilitate, like good roads, good defence or research. It's often the approach to culture is that the money that's left on a budget, we can spend on a bit of theater, dance and music, while other plans go ahead. For us, it's as important to bet on good art and culture as on good psychiatry. Maybe it's even so that good art and good culture make it a little less necessary to bet on psychiatry. Art and culture have a self-esteem, and I think it's a broad understanding of cultural life. But art and culture also have a value far beyond their own field. It creates quality of life, it creates joy of life, it creates health, it creates well-being, and it creates good social relationships. It is alarming that, in the cultural field, our very ambitious, yet politically modest, objective is to raise the cultural budget to 1 pst. of the State budget, which in 2004 will be approximately equivalent. SEK 1.3 billion, is met with words like ‘unresponsible populism’ and also demands for containment. We have plans in a number of fields. We have, as I mentioned earlier, a defence plan of up to NOK 30 billion this year, we have research plans, and we have transport plans. Right, I understand, very much to get Norway into the EU, with a quota of NOK 15 billion a year. There's never a question about containment. When the culture is going to get 130 million. kr extra this year – plus the growth Olemic Thommessen mentioned here, which is in the budget, which of course results from the increase in expenditure in the budget, so it is more than 130 million. kr in 2005, 2006 and 2007 – then there is a call for containment. We have to stop talking about culture as an extra good, we have to look at it as an equally important bet sector as the other sectors. Here's the core of the Working Party, SV and the Center Party now. That's where the core of the difference between what we're saying and what the government's saying is. The Minister of Culture said in the newspaper yesterday that this is almost what the government parties think, and we're also adding up to about NOK 1 billion in increase. Why, first of all, is it so that the communication does not add up to a certain extent to the cultural effort, as it says under the heading ‘Economic and administrative implications’? And why is it that the Right and Christian People's Party does not then go in and provide a majority for all the bets that the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre are now in favour of? Why don't you make a commitment to leave 1 pst. of the State budget go to culture? Why is it not a part of providing the cultural sector with a cultural law, in line with other sectors, with a legally binding commitment? Why do you not want to be involved in an investigation into the working conditions of artists? Not even an investigation into the living conditions of artists, you want to be part of and support about, and I don't think the bet on the artists' living conditions is very promising from that point of view either. Why don't the government parties support our ambition to allow all children in Norway who want to go to cultural school? It would have been a fantastic vision, which we could have given Norway's children by 2014. Instead, you choose to remove the earmarked state subsidy and remove the ceiling on self-payments, and provide for a municipal economy that leads to an increase in prices across the country and an equal number of queues. If you wanted to, you could join the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party and say that we want to support the Norwegian film success and make sure that the appropriations are available to help us achieve our goal for Norwegian film: 20 films a year and that a quarter of the cinema audience sees Norwegian film. You don't want to, but on three occasions you've cut the film budget. We want to bet on Norwegian music. Here, too, there is no support from the government parties. Not even the great Samstemt bet on folk music, jazz and rock or something as simple as making sure that the symphony orchestras in Trondheim and Stavanger can get luscious 16 positions up to 2014, you can join and commit to. Dance art is an area that has often been put in second rows in the art bet. We want it to be raised to its own important field, to have its own support system in the Council of Culture, to give it a real boost. This is $30 million. kr. in the year of free performing arts. It's simply shameful that the government parties can't help concretely in this area because they've been verbally treated for a number of years. Freedom is one of the backbones of Culture-Norway. We can't from Stortinget's side oblige people to participate in the local theater groups, set up the crew on weekdays and on weekends and participate in all the activities that are going on, but we can facilitate it. One way we've done it is to create a system of Freefonds, where these groups can get good support, especially for children and young people, who can have a positive leisure time and also have an interest in culture and art. Here, the Stortinget – again without the government parties – with the Advance Party, the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party have made sure that the tipping agents now give a huge boost in that area. What are the government parties' answers to that? Well, systematic cuts in the same posts on the state budget. You've now taken 100 million. of the means which would actually be a real boost to the cultural school system, to the Free Fund and to cultural construction. So not enough that you don't want to be part of the promises of the Stortinget, you actively want through the state budget to counter the strengthening that the Stortinget offers. I want to say that in the field of culture, we have, from the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre's side, created a historical document, historically in two ways: one is that never before has one committed itself to such a comprehensive commitment to art and culture, such a concrete objective, a vision one can reach for. Secondly, however, cultural policy has been promised in a completely new way to become a policy area of conflict in a different way from before. Election campaigns have largely focused on important issues, of course, such as school, health, employment and the kind of things that everyone is concerned about. I hope what we have now done can also lead to the cultural field becoming an important issue when people are going to the polling stations in 2005, when the policy course for Norway is to be strung out. We're ready. We've set up our direction. We are ready to sail if the people give us a mandate to do so. Finally, I take up our suggestions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-01.ana.ud1667e235	The representative Trond Giske has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-01.ana.ud1667e240	For a moment, I thought that we were in the middle of the budgetary procedure and not in the middle of the discussion of the cultural message. But of course, I'm very happy that the Workers' Party, like the Right, will have an economic boost for culture over the next ten years. We haven't numerically fixed the bet, but in the Culture Communication, there's a bet of about NOK 1 billion. In other words, it's $30 million. kr in the year that separates us, and that is what the Workers' Party calls a deep gap between the government parties and the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre's cultural policy. We see what are the main priorities of the Workers' Party. But I am also concerned about what is not there: the follow-up to the ABM message, our national theatres, the National Museum of Art and Opera – yes, what lies within the entire classical field that is the bearer of traditions and our cultural heritage. Is it so to understand, since it is the main priorities of the Workers' Party that are set out in the 'Great Cultural Promise', that the areas I have now mentioned will be down-prioritized in relation to them?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-01.ana.ud1667e249	Of course, it's not like the areas that we're already in the process of doing, and which were followed up by the labor party government, are something that needs to be taken care of. ABM message, opera and those things are – fortunately – majority for. What I'm concerned about is why the government parties couldn't join in and commit in the other areas, if it's actually such that they have a plan to spend $1 billion. Why do you take the political burden of going against bets after bets if it's really like you're going to spend the money? And if you're going to spend the money, where is it that you're going to spend it? For it is not stated in the comments of the government parties that obliging bet areas where this money is to be used, if you do not calculate in a completely different way and say that a new cultural building in Stavanger might cost between 600 and 700 million. So you're almost up in the billion. If that's the way you calculate it, it's going to be $1 billion. We ask, why has it been said not to have a majority for cultural schools for everyone, for the film, for the dance, for all the areas in which we have committed ourselves, if that is how we intend to spend the money anyway? My suspicion is that the money should be spent on tax bills.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-01.ana.ud1667e256	Now we've heard of the Workers' Party's cultural promise. We hope that they will not lift up and get a serious back injury. But there can be no doubt that the Workers' Party has begun the election campaign against 2005. Now we have heard that parts of cultural life and the Workers' Party want a cultural law. I'm incredibly excited about how the Workers' Party has thought that a cultural law should provide better culture for most people, and how one has thought that this law should be enforced. My question to the Workers' Party is: Will there be a better and more culture of legal regulation of cultural life?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-01.ana.ud1667e263	The law alone will not provide better culture or art. But the law can help to ensure that culture is prioritised in relation to other regulated sectors. We see that we have promises of bet in a number of areas. Then you sit in municipalities and county councils and say that we have to follow it up, and we have to follow it up, because it's mandatory, and then we have to cut some place, and we do that on culture, because there's no rule. That's the imbalance we want to live in. We do not want a detailed regulation on how cultural policy is to be implemented, but we want it to be as binding on culture and art as on other sectors. Once again, raising itself and investing: the most important cultural trajectory in Norway today is the culture of consumption. In 2004 we will have a shopping party with an increase in private consumption, thanks to Valgerd Replystad Haugland and her government, at NOK 37 billion – only in 2004! And then I think that's $130 million. kr for comparative culture becomes too small to count.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-01.ana.ud1667e270	I would like to remind the representative Giske that it was the Workers' Party that presented the previous cultural message. In that cultural message and in the setting, the Workers' Party strongly argued against obtaining a cultural law. They have been in power in the Ministry of Culture for a large part of the period since and as late as 2001, and they have not proposed any cultural law so far. Most recently, the representative Giske has been enthusiastically involved in a cultural law. That's the proposal for 1 pst. by the State budget. Now, too, the Labour Party, which is traditionally a government party in Norway, will ensure that government councils can meet at budgetary conferences with a permanent arrangement for their ministry. What about the others? What about the Minister of Health, he's going to get a fixed percentage to psychiatry, so that there's also a priority, which Gisk was in his post? And then Giske owes it to the local economy, which is too bad. [[The President clubs.]] I also want to remind him that it was the Workers' Party and the government parties that provided the basis for the municipal economy we have at least this year. Is it the distance from the government offices that has become too large for the Workers' Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-01.ana.ud1667e279	Please respect the speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-01.ana.ud1667e282	Let me first say that one of the main demands of the Labour Party had in the budgetary negotiations with the government parties before Christmas was the strengthening of the municipal economy, and with the detention we voted in favour of a budget that at least gave the municipalities over NOK 2 billion more. But we would like – very much, I would like to say to the representative Lånke – to have even more to the municipalities. Because it is nonsense that in 2004 we are increasing private consumption by 37 billion kroner, while the local economy is almost stationary. It's an imbalance that should cut far into the hearts of the Christian People's Party. So it's with percentages: if there's one party in this room that should know the percentage of appropriations, it's the Christian People's Party. Because it's the party that, heroically enough, has fought for 1 pst. – not by the State budget, but by GDP – should be provided every year, so every year the Minister of Development meets at a government conference with a percentage target. We believe that in the same way in the field of culture, because it is an area that can be cut very quickly, that has weak press groups, and that can easily be set aside, should have a target of 1 pst. by the state budget, and that should be Christian People's Party's support.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-01.ana.ud1667e290	Now, probably the president will use other names than 'customs' about politics in general, so the president hopes Gishe will take note of it. The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-01.ana.ud1667e295	The Culture Communication, Culture Policy for 2014, presented by the Government, is, in the view of the Progress Party, a clear description of the current situation in the field of culture. The progress party had expected a more visionary and innovative message, especially because the development is faster today than just a few years ago. The progress party wanted a message where you actually left the big lines for the next decade. The government did not send a message with large lines. We in the Progress Party believe that the message of culture is tame. Most of all, we believe that it shows that the Government does not have the ability to prioritise within the cultural field. As the message is, it is little more than a good status report. Since the cultural message is so little visionary, the Progress Party hoped that at least the Groeting's treatment of it would show the differences in cultural policy and focus on the big lines. It wasn't like that. The members of the Culture Committee have also come to the conclusion in their work that specific individual matters will be mentioned. This means that what really belongs to the budgetary procedure is now also given focus in the long-term perspective. Unfortunately, it looks like the really big visions and the long lines are drowning in good singles. But this was the final message of culture, and it is a heavy, large and comprehensive document that we are going to debate today. What's interesting to see is that now there are contours of three blocks also forming within the cultural field – it's the government parties, it's the socialist block, and then it's the Progress Party. That means that everyone now actually has to innovate that the Progress Party also has a policy in the field of culture, which has been claimed for a number of years that we don't have. Even on a comment site in Dagbladet on Wednesday 31 March 2004, Hege Duckert writes that this “warns that the Progress Party is now taking seriously, also in the cultural field”. Yeah, we're gonna be serious. We have done a lot of work in the processing of the cultural message. We have, unlike any of the other parties, written the notes ourselves and without the help of the cultural field. We have had a wide-ranging treatment of the cultural message within our party, and if anyone thought that the elected and elected representatives of the Progress Party did not care about culture, I can tell you that more than 60 of our local teams and states have made good input and comments on the message. So the commitment has been great in the whole progress movement for this message. Then we'd better take the criticism we get, because we've concentrated more on the content than on the spelling. What must be the main task of the State and the Government in the field of cultural policy must be to ensure that we preserve Norwegian culture and tradition. In a cultural message where globalisation and integration are the main objectives, it is very important that the Norwegian sense of identity and the Norwegian cultural traditions peculiar to Norway are also taken into account. In principle, the Progress Party, and we have actually programmed this, wants culture, as far as possible, to be free and independent of political governance. Nevertheless, it is important to stress that the resources used should be used in such a way that we take care of our art and cultural taxes. It has to be done in such a way that our descendants can also rejoice over them and thus also know their roots and their Norwegian identity. That being said, it is also important to stress that there is a great deal in the cultural message there is consensus about. The Committee is united on a number of good individual actions to which the Progress Party can easily join. In particular, this relates to specific issues which can also be read in the 2004 budgetary position. What makes the cultural policy of the Advance Party so different from that of others? As I said, we want a free and independent cultural life, where broad culture is the most important thing. We want to use state cultural crowns in such a way that as much as possible enjoy them and experience them. There should not be much doubt as to whether we are looking at examples of proposals for which we have received a majority in recent years, for example. the rental of art and a significant change to the key, which has resulted in a formidable increase in cultural crowns, for example. through the cultural school bag. The promotion party is concerned that not most of the cultural crowns are left in prestigious buildings, e.g. in central eastern regions, but spread throughout the country. The Progress Party supports the Government in setting up a new scheme for the allocation of funds to regional cultural buildings. This Decision is in line with the interception decision. Let me make it clear that the new scheme will cover all regional meeting places and dissemination venues for culture. This means that all projects on regional cultural buildings can apply for these funds, regardless of how these regional buildings have previously sorted out budgetably. The Progress Party is sceptical that the Council of Culture should manage significant sums. That is why we are proposing to wind up this Council. Whether it's a soup board, I won't go into it, but it can sometimes look like the Cultural Council forgets that what's going on in Oslo is just a small part of all the amazing things going on around the country. Unfortunately, fine culture is cultivated to a greater extent in the Council of Culture than in the grassroots of Norwegian cultural life. Wide-ranging culture is important both in terms of how much more you get out of the cultural crowns, and also in order for Norway to continue to develop talents, activise children and young people and thereby to take care of and protect our culture and our traditions. The Progress Party believes that it is the voluntary and participating culture that is the backbone of Norwegian culture. Professional artists who do not find the sound of the people clearly show that there is a gap between the culture in which people recognize themselves, on the one hand, and the elite culture on the other. For this reason, the Progress Party believes that in the years to come, we must turn public cultural budgets against voluntary and participating cultural activities. Such participation has the great advantage that the artist and the audience are united in one, and that this will result in an enhanced cultural benefit. Especially in one area of cultural policy, the Progress Party distinguishes itself from the other parties. The Government Parties will increase the appropriations. The left side will attach an increment. The Progress Party will not increase public funding for culture. We think it's great that more money is spent on culture, but the increased investment should come as private funds and that the cultural sector itself generates a long-term ability to make money. At the same time, the Progress Party wants the money allocated to be spent as much as possible in such a way as to maximise joy and experience and stimulate other sources of income. One way the Progress Party wants to stimulate the cultural sector is by developing cooperation between culture and business. The values of culture can greatly enrich business. We believe that even the most hostile artists agree with that. At the same time, it is quite obvious that business can also enrich cultural life. The Progress Party wants a targeted commitment to such cooperation, and we are pleased that we have got an overall committee on this. Unfortunately, it takes too much time to frame all the good actions in the cultural message we support. My 10 minutes are soon over, here on the pulpit, at least, but one thing I'm especially happy about and can't stop mentioning, and that's that from 2006 the sailboats can put full sail. My wish is that I then stand in the bow and look beyond and forward and not lose the horizon of sight. Because that's where tomorrow's cultural expression lies, and they may be completely different from what we thought today was possible. I would like to include our suggestions in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-01.ana.ud1667e337	The representative Karin S. Woldseth has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-01.ana.ud1667e342	The representative, Mr Woldseth, has made it clear on several occasions, including today, that the Progress Party is a cultural party. Today it came in its own block. It is quite right that it is a separate block, because in the setting we have several dozen comments that start with the'majority of the committee, all except the members of the Progress Party'. They believe that our new countrymen are deceiving Norwegian culture. It's written by themselves. They do not support Sami culture. They're going against the music purchasing system. They want to put down the Cultural Council. We've heard of Opera House before. The notes about the museums are they're mostly out, they want to make the cultural schools more expensive, etc., etc. That's how I could have been. But the strange thing is that they write that they want to focus on the width culture. Where is the width of the culture of the Advance Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-01.ana.ud1667e347	I have to say I was a little surprised at the question. That was not what I had been waiting for from previous collaborators both in terms of the key and other good actions that will strengthen the breadth of culture in Norway. I guess that's the answer to the question as well. The width is all the volunteer, all the things that get incredibly much more out of the cultural crowns, and that we've actually invested in and contributed to strengthening in the last two years.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-01.ana.ud1667e352	The Progress Party of the representative Karin Woldseth is trying, in its comments on the Culture Communication, and especially in the media, to present cultural diversity in Norway as a threat to Norwegian culture. In the comments of the Advance Party, it is stated that: ‘It may be dangerous to mess with our cultural traditions. It is not many years before our own traditions are wiped out, and the Norwegian cultural tradition is produced as a combination of different cultural elements. On the basis of this, I would like the representative, Mr Woldseth, to clarify what the Progress Party means by this remark. What's the typical Norwegian thing? It would have been very interesting to get an answer to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-01.ana.ud1667e362	At least it's typical Norwegian to be good. We've heard that before. When it comes to our comments, we're standing by them. I just want to quote a few sentences from the notes to the Right and Christian People's Party: ‘For our country, this will mean a reinforced effort to maintain a cultural home path with sufficient characteristics to define it as Norwegian in the long term.’ And they say, ‘In this context, the preservation of our own cultural heritage will be the first self-evident task.’ That's exactly what the Progress Party says. It's just wrapped in cotton. But we're a little bit more direct and dare to say it. Of course, we must take care of Norwegian culture and tradition. It's about the Norwegian identity.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-01.ana.ud1667e374	The Progress Party is afraid to be infected by the multicultural expressions, in other words, they allow Norwegian cultural life to be exposed to oxygen deficiency. For culture is not something static, but always evolves in encounter with the unknown. Karin Woldseth did not answer what she meant by the genuine Norwegian. Many believe, for example: that selburosa is Norwegian. It's not. The Hanseatic Museum, which is so hotly spoken about by the Progress Party, is located in a city that has long had a large population born outside the borders of the country, and it has made Bergen's cultural life much richer. Then I understand that there is public money that is not to be spent on multicultural expressions. What about the freedom of expression of the minority population and the right of the Norwegian population to experience these expressions? I also know that the Progress Party, among others. supports Vossa Jazz and the Festival Games in Bergen. Is it so to understand that the money for these festivals is to be withdrawn when they convey multicultural expressions – because they do make sense?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-01.ana.ud1667e383	No, the money should not be withdrawn. So all the festivals that the Progress Party had to support can take it easy. When it comes to this line from SV, I don't know how to answer it. It's SV that's been the biggest critic of Western influence, which we have, among other things. from the United States and Hollywood, and how this is very unfortunate for Norway, so they have no problem at all being influenced by Eastern cultures. I'm actually calling it cultural nodule. I think it's going to be very striking that you kind of think that one is okay and the other is not okay. For us, it's the total image that counts. You have to be influenced by external forces and change your culture – of course you have to – but the state should not be a driving force to destroy and mix cultures.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-01.ana.ud1667e390	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-01.ana.ud1667e393	I would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, Mr Thommess, for a solid piece of work. If we disagree with the policy, we agree on the importance of culture. And I have to say that I see Olemic Thommessen as a genuine cultural politician. The welfare state as we know it is under pressure, and our welfare systems are threatened. There is no reason to believe that culture has its own door, or its own niche, where it can hide and not be the victim of the same mechanisms. There have been two or three blocks today. In the past, we've talked about consensus. It's been the Progress Party against smoking. Of course, the picture is more nuanced. But sometimes we use images to illustrate what's going on. I believe that we are starting to see new contours in Norwegian policy, and I also believe that we are a watershed. But it is not given on which side of this watershed all the parties in Norway are porting. What has been given, and on which I am reasonably sure, is on which side of this watershed the Progress Party will end. I'm not going to spend a lot of time on it, but we can see what happened in Denmark, where neoliberalism's ideas are now rooted in cultural policy, and where it is located. There are the ideas that market forces and the market are suitable for the most part. Then we have the other option, and that's where we're at the top, where the water hasn't entirely decided – it's probably in the middle of the Hardanger area somewhere – and there's both the Right Party and the Christian People's Party. With regard to the Right, we saw earlier today that the Olemic Thommess was light on his foot, and had he had a little other clothes, I might have thought that he was the representative of the good old Bunads-Hear. But then I saw that he had paint shoes on, and then I realized that it was the shoes of Per-Kristian Foss! Then, of course, he doesn't get that light on his foot. But I see that the right somehow is inside on both sides of the watershed. Here's a look to Denmark, and I'm going to come back to what right-wing politicians are on there. I'll take that a little bit later. Then we have a Christian People's Party, which I believe clearly belongs on the other side, but as the pragmatists they are, they often sit in the boat and rudder, and it happens that they rudder in the ring and don't know exactly which direction the boat is going to take. Let's look at the media policy. There's a very good example. Although media policy is not the subject of this Communication, media policy is, of course, a very important part of cultural policy in Norway. The example is press support, where we are just talking about what Olemic Thommess talked about before today, that the market was democratic, etc. But the market is not democratic. The market is not democratic in managing freedom of expression. The right has said that they, as the Progress Party, will take away the press support. What's going to be the consequence of that? The consequence of this is that the relevant newspapers in Norway are likely to be lost. It is the genuineness of Norwegian democracy and as we know it – as built after the war, and as there has been a great consensus in Norway until the entry of the Progress Party – that the state actually provides as a guarantor, then at an arm's length distance, and provides for the right of life to newspapers, media, culture and artists, who have as their primary task to be acidic in the same system. That's what I call real democracy, and those are values that we don't have the opportunity to deal with. I must say that I am still amazed when I hear that the Right does not want it so. Then I thank the Christian People's Party for being so steep and so strong in this context, and I hope, at that moment, there is some danger that such principles are at risk, that Ola D. Loan then takes the years and makes sure that the right path rises. And then we have the last block, which has now gone out with the big cultural promise. What is their goal is to continue the policy of Norway and the Nordic countries in and on their own, established as cultural policy after the war, with the precisely arm's length principle of distance and the state as the great guarantor that this will live well. It's been about the message of culture, and it's been upset after three parties went out and said that they would commit themselves to promises, that they would commit themselves to a real promise. The representative Thommessen said that 1 pst. was imaginative. It was like thinking about a number. Then I want to say that without numbers, at least what's in this cultural message is just fantasy. I'm not going to read from the whole cultural message, but quote what's at the very end of the introduction here, and there's the difference between the three parties that have launched the cultural promise, and the government parties show: ‘The Ministry must therefore state clearly the economic developments, the state’s economic space and thus the economic environment in which the cultural sector can be provided.’ That's good neuron. It could make us think that it's Valgerd Answerstad Haugland, but we hear from the content that it's Per-Christian Foss that has formulated this. Norway is characterised by a good cultural policy. And I mean that. Perhaps Norway is the best cultural country in the world whenever we look around – I think we can agree on that. That's exactly why we're concerned that, with the pressure that's now, we shouldn't bow down to it, that we shouldn't let ourselves be swayed by the market liberalist ideas, but that, on the contrary, we should maintain the ideas of cultural policy as part of Velferds-Norway and as part of Information-Norway and the construction of the welfare state. We have supported that principle all along, and we will be involved in maintaining and developing it further. But I have to say that I am – and I get into it when I'm out meeting people abroad, who I'm so lucky to be doing as a big-time representative – very proud of Norwegian cultural policy. And when I travel around Norway, I'm a little tired. Of course, you can think about it. But we've said what we want, and that's that we'll get even better, and we'll go on. What are these threats that I'm talking about? Yes, the key is Denmark. What do we see? We see more commercialization, more left to the private. There the new politicians in Denmark have removed what Karin S. Woldseth called the cultural nobbb, and they say: Why should my tax money go to subsidising fine culture for a few, which are often the ones that have enough from before? And that's a pretty enticing idea – until we think about and see the consequences. Look at Denmark, we understand why we shouldn't buy such arguments. We have had an example in Norway last week of the Berlusconi film showing why this is important. Then we're talking about public responsibility, and we're not going to rely on sponsoring funds and other support. I'm not against the idea that we're going to get support from business, and that we're going to get money elsewhere, but there's a very clear distinction where we're going to be influenced, either directly or indirectly, as we probably saw a case of this week, when the European documentary festival in Oslo bowed down to pressure from the Italian Embassy, which was the co-organizer, not to show the Berlusconi film. The tragedy is that the essence of the Berlusconi film is to show just how bad it is in Italy when political power and market forces are lubricated in a butter to control the opposition. Then we see that what is scary – or uncomfortable, I would say – is when we notice that Berlusconi's long arm reaches Norway and controls the content of a small film festival in Norway. Thank you and thank you that they changed their position, and that they fixed their backs. I hope that's an example for others. But then I think at the same time: Think of all the festivals that haven't set up that program, where the Berlusconi film wasn't set up on the program, where self-censorship has made sure that we're kind in the first place and don't do what we should do! Unfortunately, research shows that market thinking leads away from basic values. Therefore, as SV sees it, it is important to work against market liberalism in cultural policy. This does not mean that we are opposed to the renewal of cultural fields and letting new ideas and ideas go, but we will not allow the purchase and sale, supply and demand, investment and return to be the elements that govern and set the agenda for what cultural policy should be in order to achieve its full goal. I'll deal with the suggestions we have in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-01.ana.ud1667e429	The representative Magnar Lund Bergo has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-01.ana.ud1667e434	I am grateful for the kind words of the representative, Mr Bergo, and I would like to repeat that in relation to his interest in cultural policy. But I have to say that the representative Bergo doesn't understand that part of the culture that's about shoes. [[muttering in the hall]] I notice that SV is on a line that is about the cultural policy that was strung out after the war, when one would unilaterally incite public funds to strengthen cultural life. At the time, it was about being small with funds, and that it was necessary to get it done. Today we live in a completely fundamentally different situation, where cultural life, among other things. consists of an enormous commercial volume. Does SV mean that it is possible to buy free from this? It seems that you like the market so badly that you have to buy yourself free on any occasion. It's going to be billions of dollars. Then I think the SV must report lost.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-01.ana.ud1667e441	I'm the first to admit that the representative Thommess is more properly attracted on most occasions than I am. But I want to remind him that bunax shoes are also black shoes and can be used after noon. 18th@item: inlistbox Obviously, we see the commercial pressure. The commercial pressure, for which we can't control by itself, because we live in a global world, we're going to take over and manage. We have some possibilities to deal with this, and we're going to use those possibilities. The best option we have is to strengthen the free field and the free cultural expression. The guarantor of this must be the State. What we're talking about is NOK 1.3 billion. We're talking 1 300 million. kr. The government is now proposing 12,000 new millions in tax reliefs for the next year. The whole promise we've been talking about could have been made. If it had been taken in one year, there would still have been $10.7 billion left for tax havens. The whole cultural promise that we want in ten years could have been taken in a taste.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-01.ana.ud1667e450	In the case of shoes, we have a lot easier for women. We can wear black shoes both before and after noon. 18th@item: inlistbox We've heard SV's usual market liberalist horror killer. I refer to the comments of the Socialist Left Party, where they write. ‘These members believe that the Government of the Culture Communication attaches too much importance to private interests financing art and culture. These members believe that adequate public support schemes must be in place to ensure innovative and controversial artistic and cultural expressions.’.» Does that mean that the Socialist Left wants to use Stalinist plan economy to direct public crowns to a culture that people don't want and that just provokes?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-01.ana.ud1667e462	In fact, I believe that the cultural policy that Karin Woldseth administers lies closer to Stalinism than the one that SV administers. The cultural vision that the Progress Party has, and what they promote, and the way they fund it, is much closer to the totalitarian image. What they want from State-funded art and culture shall be «obedient». That's why we highlight the arm's length distance principle in the Nordic model. That's what Karin Woldseth's friends in Denmark have removed. It is precisely the principles that are so important: it is not the state that determines its content. The state provides the basic funding, and then it is the independent agency that provides support for anyone. I took that up in my post, and maybe Karin Woldseth could have gotten it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-01.ana.ud1667e467	Now the president thinks that the debate has got a long lead, from shoes to Stalin.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-01.ana.ud1667e470	These representatives shall be allowed to hold a colloquial discussion. The quote that the representative Bergo read from the end of the introduction to the setting, I think he should read again if he believes it seriously with the proposal to enter and take control of the country via government. Taking a reservation about the overall economic situation is something SV actually never had to do. I think it's a good exercise to start saying that sentence sometimes in the evening. It depends entirely on the structures and challenges we have as a society, what budgets we can operate with. I remember that when the Workers' Party's cultural message was presented, it said that everything would be taken within the existing framework. This is a rise. But then I would also like to say: The promise was a little lost in the post of the representative of Bergo. Now he's going to have one minute to say something more about it, what it is SV does – not just what others do and don't do. He's going to have one minute to give a little answer to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-01.ana.ud1667e479	I've been trying to draw up an ideological sketch of where we're lying in the watershed, where people can feel safe. Together with the Workers' Party and the Center Party, we have also given our cultural promise, which says what we want. I expect that Dagrun Eriksen has already got what we want, and that she has read it there. Dagrun Eriksen seems to believe that tax relief is a popular requirement, while increased resources for culture are not. Since I arrived at Stortinget three years ago, the government, with the party of which the representative is a member, has made sure to give about. 19,000 million. kr in tax bill. New 12,000 million have been proposed. kr. But when we're talking about committing ourselves to 1.3 billion kroner in cultural vows, it's completely impossible.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-01.ana.ud1667e486	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-01.ana.ud1667e489	I would also like to start by thanking the rapporteur, Olemic Thommess, for a solidly executed job on behalf of everyone. As a representative of the Christian People's Party, I see this debate as an important milestone and a brand day. The Christian People's Party has often been known as a counter-cultural party for the 70 years the party has existed. It is also a name that we acknowledge and are proud of today. At the same time, we are now dealing with a cultural message presented by the Cultural Council of the Christian People's Party, a message that has been received very positively, not only by such a collective cultural life in Norway; it also goes through the Stortinget with a few minor adjustments. There are adjustments also the government parties agree. We are pleased that the main features of the communication are supported by a broad majority of the Stortinget. The Christian People's Party has taken on the role of a cultural party, a role we have ambitions to develop. As a Christian People's Party politician, I will describe culture and art as an important cohesive part of the social organism itself. If there is something human beings in a time marked by overheated materialism and commercialism need, then there are values that survive us, values with an attraction and a wear resistance that gives anchoring. Of course, there are some opinions within cultural life many Christian People's Party voters don't appreciate. I guess that also applies in other parts. But we think it's important to view diversity as an important value in itself. For what is the alternative? Unification breaks with the freedom to choose itself, which is one of man's most important characteristics in creation. Opinions, and perhaps even forms of expression that don't feel good for anyone, can be good for others. In general, a multitude leads to enrichment. Therefore, it is also important to stimulate the development of minority cultures and to provide good conditions for artists and cultural actors from the immigrant communities. The Christian People's Party is pleased that this is so strongly underlined by a broad majority in the vote. Today, people in Norway are using less and less of their income for living, about 11–12 pst. Instead, people spend more and more of their income on experiences, travel and cultural activities. And most people prefer to spend their spare time on something meaningful. This is a huge challenge for the cultural policy of the future. It's also a huge challenge to create a content that has quality enough to lift up the many in this country and give them something to live for. Three of the opposition parties launched overtime last Monday what they called the great cultural promise. At a solid distance from any budgetary procedure, it is essentially a matter of granting more, in other words, a cash pledge of approximately DKK 1.3 billion over ten years. A little bit more for the most part. But when it's true, it's not that far from what's already included in the government's cultural message, it's going to come up on an almost equal level. And a lot of the priorities we'll be able to stick with them about. The main difference is that the three parties will commit to a fixed percentage of the state budget and regulate cultural life to a greater extent than the government parties think is right – by means of a cultural law. But cultural vows we will be on! The representative Geske and his partner should know: just come back and help us, so we can stand together to do it. More than 10 years have passed since the last cultural message was addressed. Two key keywords from that message were ‘quality’ and ‘functional distribution’. Both of these concepts are still important. Quality must always be an overall criterion and the objective of all public art and cultural policy. It's not the opposite to bet on a broad culture, on the contrary. Quality is something that everyone has to stretch to. And the functional division, which was incorporated in the previous cultural message, survives this message. It's proven to be viable. Norwegian cultural life is dominated by the major institutions. This will still be the case, even if we want to focus more on the activity unfolded outside the institutions. Some institutions must also be further developed. The symphony orchestras will get more musicians. We're going to bet more on the opera and ballet around the country as Bjørvika expands, while the activity at the Norwegian Opera is going to be built up to fill the new house. The museums are probably the institutions that have so far gone through the greatest change. The ABM process shall be completed against a modern, nationwide museum network of consolidated units, and a strengthening of the archive area to meet, inter alia. developments in the transition to electronic technology. And for the libraries, which are within an exciting development process, the conditions should be arranged so that the vision of the seamless library can become a reality. Several new institutions are also in a hurry to establish. First Dansen's House, then national scenes for jazz, folk music and folk dance. An institution that documents and disseminates the values created within pop and rock shall be further investigated. Next to the established people, the freelancers and the free ensembles live, not least in music and in stage art. The time for lifting these should now have come. That's what I got the time for. I've had to share time with the Minister of Culture, and I refer to her posts, which I expect to take up a lot of what I can't reach.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-01.ana.ud1667e517	I feel pretty safe about that. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-01.ana.ud1667e523	There was a wound to the accusations of Ola T. Loaned over the cooperation and cultural promise of the Workers' Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party have come together. I feel pretty sorry for Ola T. Loan. He's a very decent cultural politician, but now he's into bad company. The Christian People's Party has probably also received many requests during the work on the message. Yesterday I sat and watched a debate on the tax reform, in which the Vice-President of the Christian People's Party enthusiastically spoke about tax credits of DKK 12 billion to those who have the most. Is Christian People's Party and Ola T. Lånke comfortable giving 12 billion dollars in tax bills in one year, but say no to a cultural effort of 1.3 billion dollars over ten years? The Vice President of the Christian People's Party also said that it was necessary to lubricate the system. What could we have lubricated the system to get the Christian People's Party into this venture?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-01.ana.ud1667e532	The characteristic of me as one who feels very hurt right now, probably the representative Eirin Faldet could have spared himself. I have just made a post in which I commend the message and the Minister of Culture for what has been presented. I think we've made a great deal. I have to say that it seems strange that the three parties that are now in a way to construct a front against this message, in which they so agree with the heart, in the last turn overtime – after the release was postponed – come with these things that I have described, and that are not far from what we are in favour of. It will lead too far into fiscal policy and fiscal policy in the seconds that I have left. I can't go into it. I just want to say that very much of what has been taxed, the Workers' Party has also opted for. It's like when people get more to walk with, it's also going to be more to use on culture. I think this is a challenge we have to go into with open eyes, and then we get to create culture for everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-01.ana.ud1667e546	One thing that doesn't seem to worry about the Christian People's Party in particular is the future use of resources in the cultural sector. A new National Museum will be built, which is likely to receive about the same price tag as the opera in Bjørvika, and we have heard, at the latest in the article from Lånke, that Bjørvika will receive increased resources. Who are to be taken from these resources when these large buildings of excellence are to be taken by the crowns of culture and, at the same time – as we have heard in the previous line exchange – tax havens? Are they to be taken from sport, or are they to be taken from the people's culture in the districts, or are they to be taken out of the cultural budget, perhaps from the churches and churches, the schools or from the hospitals? I think the Christian People's Party can be much clearer on its priorities in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-01.ana.ud1667e555	I think the representative Knudsen's description of the Norwegian economy was almost equivalent to the economy of a developing country. The resources we're going to spend on culture, we know, are resources that are going to be of great use. It's small resources when you see it in the big context. Someone wants 1 pst. by the State budget. We haven't come up with that, and we don't see the possibility of doing that, at least if you think about what goes over the Ministry of Culture. But to take these points: the Opera has been adopted by a large majority. We see people out in the country who also go in to develop opera and ballet in Norway. The National Museum is already adopted. We have coverage for what we've done. We could take all the other promises that have to come. I think it's almost unnecessary to try to find arguments for this in this room. I think it's a broad majority to use a larger part of our money resources to create culture for the benefit of everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-01.ana.ud1667e562	The representative Lånk was the case rapporteur for the so-called ABM message and is perhaps the representative who knows these matters best. Both in the ABM message, in the setting and in the Culture message, it is proposed to establish preservation services in each state to rework craft skills for museums over 5000 protected buildings. This is about taking care of important parts of the country’s cultural heritage. For this reason, the members of the Committee from the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, in the form of their own comments, have wanted to give a signal to the Government that this work must now be strengthened in the future; the Government parties have not wanted to join this remark. It is therefore close to asking the representative Lånke whether he is satisfied with the state of the things – or, more specifically, the condition of the objects and the protective buildings – and that there is therefore no need to strengthen this work.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-01.ana.ud1667e567	Another line that, in my opinion, slams open doors. It is not that we agree to any formulation that is written into a setting, but there are enough formulations both in this and in previous settings that show that we want to complete the ABM process that we have started, including consolidation and construction of conservation services and the preservation of the trade traditions around. That's exactly why we're doing this, so we're going to get more out of the money, and so we're going to get better museums and better institutions. I'm standing by, and I think the party and also the government are doing, that we're going to get up to the level that was adopted in connection with the ABM notification. As far as I remember, it was 414 million. kr above the level of that period in five years. If we don't make it in the five years since then, we will at least have as a clear objective that this process should be completed, as the representative of Lund Bergo has said he wants it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-01.ana.ud1667e574	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-01.ana.ud1667e577	The cultural message covers many cultural policy areas, and during the treatment process there is no lack of questions from art and cultural organisations and institutions. It is a constant desire that the Storting should have the will and not least the ability to increase bet within the cultural field. Just as for all other big messages, it's the annual budgetary permissions that determine to what extent we're going to succeed in achieving the ambitious goals that are left in the option. The importance of culture is often referred to as the glue of society. The culture is decisive for well-being, and can also be decisive for any people wanting to take care of themselves. He builds bridges between generations and creates good relationships across life's vision and ethnicity. And not least, he's involved in giving a stronger sense of identity. For the Centre Party, an active and offensive cultural policy is a high priority. This applies both in the professional area and in the amateur field. We're dealing with the Workers' Party and SV in a range of areas, and it's worth noting that these three parties have agreed to increase the cultural budget by approximately NOK 1.3 billion over the decade. This has been mentioned earlier in the debate. An average increase of 130 million. ten-year cultural crowns could contribute to growth and not least to the enthusiasm of a range of cultural areas. We want to highlight the importance of culture by asking for the adoption of a simple cultural law. Through a simple cultural law, we will be able to see the importance of culture, give it weight and status, and stretch under public responsibility, while such a law will help to ensure a lack of cultural provision throughout the country. There are a lot of areas I could have entered, but within a frame of five minutes I'm going to pay close attention to short notes in a single area. The voluntary sector has always been strong in the Central Party. I would like to stress the importance of this sector in the whole country, and the great work that many teams and organisations are doing. I would particularly like to point out the Free Fund scheme and the Free Fund funds, which we would like to be brought together under one department and distributed according to a cost key corresponding to the actual membership mass. A holistic and collective approach should be taken to promote local cultural life and voluntary engagement in the field of culture. We want a higher priority of local and voluntary cultural work without creating contradictions between local and national, or between amateur and professional arts and culture. I would also like to point out the great activity within the festival and party areas and within the corps and choir areas. We want support here to be stepped up. We could also think of a fund scheme where the returns can be used for investment in instruments. The Norwegian language is under pressure and offensive language policy is important. By supporting the «Action Extending the purchasing system», we will be able to strengthen the purchasing system for Norwegian literature. Nynorsk is even with a book destination, and I want to give credit for the content of the message and for it in the settings that apply to new Norwegian. Through several measures, the centre wants to support and strengthen its position further. We propose the creation of a new Norse fund, the Vinjefond, which will help to strengthen new Norse journalism. We are concerned that, through good arrangements, municipalities will be able to realize the construction of cultural meeting places. The new incentive scheme to finance national constructions, to which the Ministry puts forward, we believe that existing schemes are weakening. Previously, it was set by over 40 million. kr for this purpose. These money's now gone. The International Folk Music Festival is given the status of a focal point institution. It's the Center Party very, very, very naked. We have repeatedly tried to give this status to the festival during the budgetary procedure, and it is especially gratifying that this is now happening. The Norwegian cultural boat Stortinget has said yes to earlier. This is an exciting project. A cultural boat from Halden to the fullest of the churches with art and culture to the coastal population is a fantastic experience. I would like to congratulate the working group on the further work and see to it that Stortinget gets this for final treatment. I am pleased that a co-consultant committee ends up saying that it is a national responsibility to contribute to technological development that will speed up the subtitles of direct television programmes. Thus, there are about 600 000 people who will have a significantly strengthened quality of life.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-01.ana.ud1667e611	The President is somewhat uncertain as to whether Sollied Upperaas will make proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-01.ana.ud1667e614	Thank you, President! It's done with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-01.ana.ud1667e620	The representative Eli Sollied Upperaas has then taken up the proposal to which she referred. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-01.ana.ud1667e625	The centre party is always in the first place when it comes to municipal autonomy and the importance of strengthening local democracy. It is striking then that every single time we come to a specific matter that is about giving the municipalities responsibility, the centre party backs and is opposed. Looking now at the proposal on cultural law, also in connection with some of the other proposals contained in the great cultural promise, it is permeated by the will of government governance and state use of funds to provide leadership for the municipalities. My questions to the Center Party are: Is it possible to mention one single example of what the State is doing today, which could be transferred to the municipalities? Does not the Senter Party rely so much on the local politicians that they believe that they will also be able to take care of culture?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-01.ana.ud1667e632	I am very pleased that the representative says that the Central Party is the ones in the first position in terms of strengthening municipal self-government. I agree with the representative. So it's referred to the laws that I've asked for an explanation of. Now it is the case that we have a municipal minister who says that the municipalities should – and there is a repetition of it – take care of the statutory tasks. Such a censure can be perceived as a non-practice of cultural policy by the municipalities. That's the Center Party strongly disagreed with. We mean that culture is very important, because it's out in the municipalities people cage, and it's out in the municipalities cultural activities and cultural services exist. By enacting a single cultural law, we're also going to clarify what will be positive by the law, not just what will be negative. This is also true of the local economy. If local authorities are to contribute to cultural activities, they must have a financial contribution.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-01.ana.ud1667e641	I have philosophized a little about the role of the Centre Party – in working on the cultural message, not least. Now they are obviously firmly located in a newly formed socialist block, which aims at government cooperation – probably when the occasion comes. I've had the pleasure of cooperating with the Center Party, with the Councils of State of Enger Lahnstein and Haga, on cultural policy. We very well agreed on a lot of the challenges in the cultural sector. Now, when we hear the representative Giske describe the big difference that has now arisen in Norwegian cultural policy, between the three parties on the one hand and the government parties on the other – he also allowed himself to include the Progress Party here – I wonder a little about what it is like for the Central Party in this situation to hear this. My question to the representative Sollied Överaas is then: Does the Centre party feel well with the strong description of the construction of a gorge, closest, between the Centre Party and e.g. Christian People's Party in Cultural Policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-01.ana.ud1667e648	The President must ask the representatives to try to put forward their lines after the one-minute speaking time provision.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-01.ana.ud1667e651	First of all, I would say that the central party's role in the work of the cultural message, similar to that of most in the committee, is that we have worked day and night and several days in overtime. We still want to cooperate with the Christian People's Party. We want to cooperate with those parties in the hall to help us get more numbers for what we, like others, are giving high priority. So the representative asked Lånke questions if we asked ourselves behind the representative Giske's strong statements that there's a difference here. The big difference in the setting so far is that the minority has a much greater commitment than the majority to add about. SEK 1.3 billion extra for culture in the years that this message will apply.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-01.ana.ud1667e660	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-01.ana.ud1667e663	When the government budget for 2004 was presented in the fall, the Evening Post wrote that culture was the great winner. That was a proper observation. Cultural life has never received more state resources than it is now. The culture message has also been well received. This is probably evidence that this government has high ambitions for cultural life in Norway, with great respect for freedom and diversity and the many thousands of actors who contribute to the quality of life and life through cultural work. They enrich society and each one of us. The left as a cultural party is very satisfied with that commitment. We are pleased that there is a broad political consensus to bet on cultural life, and to a large extent also on the direction and extent of the initiative. But the most frustrating thing is to have 5 minutes of speaking time, which we promise to do in the next period. I would have liked to talk more about e.g. The Progress Party's slightly helpless proposal to make a distinction between Norwegian culture and other culture, which must be based on a lack of knowledge, because despite all the Norwegian folk culture that has perhaps the most taken up the global cultural expressions, and on a slightly pathetic populist overbiding policy from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party that came here by day. The left would like to reach out for new economic uplifts in favour of cultural life, but I think it has to be taken into account in annual budgetary negotiations rather than in advance. Creating fronts is certainly not easy in this area. Last weekend's national meeting adopted an opinion entitled 'New Give in Cultural Policy', focusing on the cultural infrastructure of the country. It re-examines our old commitment to good financial arrangements for local and regional cultural buildings, state involvement of cultural institutions in the regions, strengthening cultural heritage protection and better financing of cultural activity in general. The left considers that the construction of sports facilities and cultural buildings should trigger equivalent grants through the surplus of gambling funds. Today, there is an unfortunate discrimination, which makes it far more difficult to build and maintain a small or large cultural building than similar sports facilities. An equivalent grant scheme between different types of construction will provide real choices and facilitate fruitful interaction between voluntary forces, public, business, financing the construction and operation of cultural buildings and local solutions. Culture has a value in itself. Cultural activities are important for the development of all communities. The cultural sector is a source of inspiration, creativity, knowledge and experience for all. An attractive cultural life is also a driving force in a well-functioning business. I am very pleased that the Committee has found good solutions in the area of free funds. It is also important that children’s and young people’s culture be safeguarded as a self-esteem, and not always as a prevention against drugs, crime or other things. The cultural expression of children and young people has the same value as that of adults. Much of the exciting happening in Norwegian culture occurs in the breakup of amateurs, professionals, institutions and free groups. But culture also needs engines. In our literature policy and library policy, it is now important that we get an engine on the public library page that has innovation and development in relation to the new stronghold of Norwegian literature. That's why I think it's important to work together between the state and the municipality on a new main library on the Vestbanen. So to one thing like it's a little bit difficult for an ethnic renunciation to record, namely Rock City Namsos, which has been very close to my heart. The problem is that the proposal that has been made not only says yes to Rock City Namsos, but also anticipates a solution to a music archive, without discussing the central role of the National Library. Coating this together makes support for the proposal impossible, and it's stupid. I think it's important that Namsos continue to work in the future to develop his project, and that they should work on it regionally. Finally, a comment on the post that the representative Bergo had. The left agrees that the public has an important role to play in the financing of culture. But the fact that industry's participation always makes it narrower is wrong. I have a small example: in the case of the Bjørvika Culture and Industry Foundation, business went into the area and sponsored the cultural initiative. It was a very exciting project, with a lot of experimental art. There I actually felt that graffiti artists were sponsored by business, while the municipality threatened to withdraw the grant, because they would forbid it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-01.ana.ud1667e686	I agree with the representative that 5 minutes is short. She gets to spend more time in the line change. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-01.ana.ud1667e691	Just a brief question about some of what the representative Skei Grande said about Rock City and Namsos. She said that there were problems for the Left Party to vote for the proposal, because it has been suggested a rock museum and a pop institute with archives in the same proposal. I just want to make it clear from the pulpit: is it so to understand that the Left Party – because there are small margins in the Stortinget, and it will be important what is said about the work ahead – supports the creation of Rock City Namsos and a rock museum in Namsos? In that case, as far as I understand, we are very close to a majority here in the Chamber. Whatever the vote, it will be important signals to the Council of State in the further work.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-01.ana.ud1667e696	The answer is simply yes. I think it's important that we now establish Rock City Namsos. I think it's an important grip. I think it's tricked also for the region, and I think that Rock City should now have as the starting point a regional bet, and that they should really start up now. But anticipating all the other things, anticipating the other projects, I think it's very wrong at this point.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-01.ana.ud1667e702	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-01.ana.ud1667e707	Often we talk about what we call heavy and important policy areas, as opposed to so-called easy and less important policy areas. The heavy policy areas are those of the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Industry, the Ministry of Defence and the type of departments. Light ministries, for example, are: The Ministry of Culture – understandably: they are not so important. I think that is a fundamental wrong approach, although we often get hurt to use that kind of concept of a policy area like culture. Although culture measured in crowns and ears of the state budget – and perhaps measured by the number of press groups, the number of interest groups mobilising political interest, influence and discussion around the themes – is less important than finance, tax, economics, it is like a political area, an area in which we, as a nation, as politicians, must have opinions and opinions, very important. It's because culture is about some of the basic things in our society: it's about our identity, it's about belonging, it's about being able to get content in life, about commitment. It's about joy, about entertainment, it's about making sense of life. Of course, this has always been important. That's why culture has always been important, and therefore culture in different forms has also always flourished. But – if possible – this will be even more important, take even greater place, in the societies we are now developing, because we are now living in a time that can hardly be compared to any other time in world history, where the vast majority of us – at least in our part of the world – have satisfied the material needs. So while heavy questions always before were about material questions, about food, about heat, about housing, the time, the excess, the space to devote to non-material issues -- like culture, like identity, like commitment -- is the bigger and the more important. And the paradox is that many experience much emptiness in a life of abundance of material wealth. So developing culture is just becoming more important and more important, not least in the light of the fact that we're getting a globalized world, and that we're getting a multicultural world. That is why the Workers' Party, like others, believes that culture is important. And it has to be underlined. Then we mean several things as well as that. One is that culture cannot be left to the market, for culture, especially in a nation with relatively few inhabitants and scattered settlements, cannot be left to market forces alone. It's a Community task. It is a public task to facilitate the flourishing of culture, and then, of course, the cultural workers, the artists, are going to create culture, but it is the public that is responsible for facilitating, creating the foundation that makes it possible for the hundreds of flowers to flourish. That is why we need public policy, public funds. And we think there's a need for more money. Culture, as in all other areas, depends on appropriations and increased resources for the flowering of culture. When the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party enter for 1 pst. by the State budget for culture, it is said that it is wrong to set the kind of numerical objectives. It may be left to each budget. It is strange that there is a position to be taken in all areas other than culture, because we have plans for stepping up research, we have it for defence, we have it for transport and, last but not least, for tax relief – commitments of DKK 12 billion in less tax. So in a lot of other areas, we have very concrete, numerical targets of spending more money, but not on culture, although the sums there are just fractions of what we're talking about, for example. on transportation or defence. I think it's important to set such a numerical measure, because it increases the probability that we get it to. The second is that we from the Labour Party did a lot of this when we were in government. We increased the cultural budget by over 300 million. kr in one year, the strongest increase in many years, and that is an expression that we mean serious both in position and in opposition when betting on culture. So I'd like to end by saying that such an economic escalation of the efforts for culture will make it possible to get big and small things, everything from Rock City Namsos to cultural schools, which is one of the most important things we do to make sure that our children become really culturally interested children.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-01.ana.ud1667e722	This is a brand day in Norwegian cultural policy. In August last year, the government presented an ambitious news release. It sets out a comprehensive cultural effort in the coming decade and outlines clear political priorities. I am pleased to note that in Stortinget there is a broad connection to the main lines of the message, although I also have to note that some people are more concerned about the fact that there are separator lines. It is also gratifying that the Committee agrees with the principle of the message that culture has a intrinsic value in itself, and points out that social developments will require a more active cultural policy in the years to come. Based on the intrinsic value inherent in art and culture, it is a key objective of state cultural policy to facilitate diversity and quality at all stages of cultural life. This means that cultural policy is aimed primarily at those parts of cultural life which have not been fully financed from revenue from turnover, and that quality must be an important criterion for the defence of state support in cultural actions. The Culture Communication presents a vital and composite cultural sector in a society characterised by rapid and far-reaching changes. Not least, the field of art has expanded dramatically over the last decade, and art is now being produced with a great variety of forms of expression. The use of new technologies, increased international contacts and developments in which different forms of art are increasingly intertwined have contributed to the emergence of professional innovation and major expression gaps. In particular, this applies to the free field of art, which is highly influenced by young, internationally oriented artists. The production and dissemination of contemporary art is increasingly outside the established institutions, within a loose organisational framework. This field is dynamic, and many actors have a high professional level, despite very high economic levels. Therefore, the cultural message has as its main priority the strengthening of the free field of art. The Committee’s position shows that there is still a broad consensus on the basic principles and priorities of Norwegian cultural policy. But at some important points, this does not apply to the Progress Party. The Progress Party is the only party that does not advocate an increase in the public licenses for cultural purposes – on the contrary, they are in favour of a reduction. That's the greatest difference. The Progress Party also believes that a non-comparison between Norwegian culture and foreign cultures – yes, there is almost the same difference. They're going against, and they're saying, ‘Our new countrymen’s culture must also be integrated into our own culture, because Norwegian culture has its own Norwegian traditions, and it may be dangerous to fool with our cultural traditions’. They fear that our own traditions will be wiped out, and that the Norwegian cultural tradition will be a link between different cultural elements. The party of progress thus reveals that they ignore what culture is and how cultures arise and develop. Culture is open processes of constant change. They grow up and form into encounters with other cultures. In a globalised age, there are countless venues for such meetings. This means that cultural deprivation is a prelude to a living, modern culture. Promoting cultural diversity and exploiting an extended room for international cultural exchange is therefore a pervasive perspective in the cultural message. Norwegian culture has also emerged and developed through an international relationship that dates back hundreds of years. Even elements that we today see as stranger, like, for example. hardening errors and rose paints are influenced by other countries and cultures. The Culture Communication proposes to turn around a lot of the basic perspective of Norwegian cultural policy. Until now, cultural policy has been largely part of national construction and a welfare policy based on the smoothing of living conditions and equal supply for all. An important aspect of cultural policy has been the emergence of a unique national identity anchored in a united, common national culture. Globalisation has made the ideals of equality and national integration challenging by new forms of inequality. Future cultural policy must turn its perspective away from the constructions of such a common culture and take into account the complexity of today's cultural situation. It must be based on a dynamic and inclusive cultural perspective that allows for a lack of different voices. However, this does not prevent a person from taking care of and strengthening what is traditionally perceived as the Norwegian cultural heritage. Of course, it is an important national task that no other actor can take care of. The Christian cultural heritage is an important part of the reference base of the Norwegian society, regardless of the personal faith or outlook of each of us. For the first time, culture and churches have a theme in the message of culture. The Church as a Cultural bearer is treated in both the general part of the message and in several professional chapters. I am pleased that the Committee also stresses Christianity and the Church as an important part of our culture, and that the plural joins in the proposal for a specific support scheme for church music. Before the committee was set up, the Labour Party, SV and the Centre took the time to hold their own press conference. Here they set out a kind of manifest in 15 points under the heading "The Great Cultural Promise". Most of this is in line with what is found in the Culture Communication and in the plural comments of the Committee. Thus, what the opposition has presented is nothing more than opening doors. First of all, it is gratifying that they essentially join a message of culture that outlines a rather extensive escalation of the state's cultural exploits. I would like to remind you that this cultural message is much more ambitious than the corresponding message produced by a workers' party government early in the 1990s under the heading ‘Culture in the Time’. It was assumed that new priorities had to be achieved within the existing financial framework, while the message I have provided included an increase of approximately NOK 1 billion within the ten-year period. Around half of this is due to the confirmation of plans to which the Stortinget has previously joined, mainly the AMB message, in addition to opera and Stavanger as a European city of culture. The second half is followed by the many new proposals in the Culture Communication. These are responses to new challenges across a broad field. In general, the Labour Party, SV and the Centre end up as the priorities of the message and make many of our suggestions for their own. That's good! They support the promotion of Norwegian music. They also support our proposals to strengthen the purchasing system for phonograms, to strengthen local organisers and festivals and to establish a national jazz scene. In the same setting, several places are shown for a recording by the music organisations called "Samst", a change of pace for rock, pop, jazz and folk music. I agree that it is important to bet on this field, and the input from organisations is valuable. But there are no priorities here, just demands for more money. How current schemes can be better targeted should also be included in the further development of the field. Furthermore, these parties join in the strengthening of dance art and the free theatre groups. They support a more offensive language policy to strengthen Norwegian languages, both book goals and new Norwegian, as well as the proposal to strengthen the Norwegian literature purchasing system to create a separate purchasing system for the case trial. In line with the cultural message, they want to promote cultural diversity and ensure good conditions for Sami culture. They join in the promotion of adornment in public spaces and increase the focus on voluntary cultural activities. In other words, there are only a few points and some weak proposals for the design and management of support schemes on which the three parties stand alone. They are also some in that it is still to bet on Norwegian film. The economic framework for Norwegian film production is well known in a separate communication. During the budget debate last year – I would say – a majority in the Committee demanded that the Government submit a separate case on this matter by 1 March 2004. I made it clear at the time that I had already planned to carry out an evaluation of the back-up arrangements in the film field. I also pointed out that it was not possible to carry out a defence statement in this field in two months. The reason for this haste was that one would see such an arrangement in conjunction with the management of the cultural message. The Ministry was now able to submit a case on the financial framework for Norwegian film production on 12 March. But then the committee itself suspended the processing of this message. I thought this was a little weird. On the other hand, I am very pleased that the majority in the Committee see the need for a stronger cultural effort. However, it is important to stress that the follow-up to the Culture Communication will take place over a 10-year period. Not all actions can be prioritised in the 2005 budget. Follow-up work must be seen in a comprehensive cultural policy perspective, and the most pressing needs must be met first. It is both about following up plans presented in previous documents that the Storting has already joined, and about meeting new challenges through a number of new priorities. A comprehensive cultural policy for the years to come calls for the follow-up of agreed plans, while at the same time giving priority to new challenges. A responsible cultural policy requires that we have room for action to evaluate the needs of the different areas against each other. We stand united in front of major cultural policy challenges. Broad agreement on the basic principles and broad lines of cultural policy means that we now have a good starting point for a holistic cultural policy that can do its part to further develop a creative and growing cultural sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-01.ana.ud1667e774	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-01.ana.ud1667e777	Unfortunately, what is covered by parliamentary language use cannot be sufficient for what I think of the Council of State's statement that we are not dealing with the film message along with the cultural message. We asked for a film message for March 1st – we got it 14 days later. They spent three months making it, and then demanded that we give the setting in 14 days in Stortinget. I just don't think it belongs anywhere, and I think I have a collective committee behind me. With regard to the financial liabilities, it is now said that there is 1 billion in the notification. Then we have to be misinformed, because the message actually says on page 236: ‘The notification shall not itself give any concrete evidence as to the extent or on which the escalation shall take place’.» It says here that it's not clear what extent the escalation is going to have. I would simply ask the Council of State to specify the concrete steps in the communication, which together amount to NOK 1 billion.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-01.ana.ud1667e791	I understand that the representative Geske needs more time on the film message, but what I'm a little confused about is that I couldn't get more time myself – to send out a call, to do a real job. That was my main score. It is a large field where I should have received the time I requested. It didn't give Trond Giske to me, and that's what I meant to point out in my post. I hope that the committee will have time for the hearing sessions that I didn't have time to present the message. So for concrete escalation: it's once again so that when we present a big message, it costs things we suggest, money. We've been thinking about what part of these bets will cost. That we're not concrete on which years the individual things are to be followed up, that's the usual procedure. That's what we're going to do in the annual budget negotiations, as we've done with all the other big messages before. But we've calculated that about $1 billion is the amount of the new bet proposals, compared to what we've put forward, because we've just figured out about what it's costing us. In this way, I can say from the Chair today that approx. One billion dollars is spent on the current cultural message.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-01.ana.ud1667e798	We heard the Council of State talk about globalisation and cultural diversity. We also heard the Council of State give the Progress Party the smooth layer in relation to our comments and our scepticism to integrate foreign cultures into the Norwegian. Then I have a good question, I would think, to the Council of State: How can the Council of State see that valuable church art and stave churches rot on their roots, and that many, many museums around them suffer an unblemished fate, while at the same time allowing them to put fresh money – and their time – into integrating foreign cultures into the Norwegian cultural heritage?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-01.ana.ud1667e805	If what I said about the Progress Party in my post was to give the smooth layer, the representative would hear what I say if I really give the smooth layer! Then I had put a completely different pressure in my post. I thought I was cautious about pointing at a contradiction: What would the Hanseat and Hanseat Museum have been without international influence? What would the sailors have been – as Karin S. Woldseth always talks about – without international influence? What would all the other things we have have be without international influence? There is no contradiction between it and taking care of the taxes in the churches, as the representative mentions. But I'm glad to see that the Progress Party has proposed more money to preserve church taxes, I haven't seen that. There will be a big message later this year on cultural memory protection. Then I also hope that we can see what we can do to take care of some of our taxes. But the little promises we give to international culture here in Norway don't mean anything special when it comes to cleaning up church buildings, at least I can promise the representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-01.ana.ud1667e814	The President agrees that the most outmoded use of language by giving the smooth layer should not take place inside the hall. [[Municipality in the hall and in the gallery]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-01.ana.ud1667e817	I'll give the Minister of Culture the rose that she has submitted a message with a very good analysis. This is probably also due to a deliberate effort on the part of the Cultural Council to which she has listened. But there is one major defect in this message. It is that one only looks at the state investment for which the Ministry of Culture is responsible. That's why I challenge the Minister of Culture to look a little bit beyond it. I wonder if she hears the same thing as what we do, about how culture becomes the balancing post in the municipalities. There was one who said to me: never has art and culture been so important, but never have we strived so much. At the press conference, when the Council of State presented the cultural message, she did not close the door to a cultural law. Isn't it right to legislate what's vital? Will not a cultural law allow the culture of the municipalities to at least put on the starting line when the budgets are to be dealt with?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-01.ana.ud1667e827	When it comes to cultural law, it's a field where I've just landed that I don't want to say yes, because it's more like a law of demonstration. It becomes very difficult to design such a law so concrete that it becomes some special help for the municipalities, I think. I also have great confidence in a lot of our municipal politicians in the various parties, that they are also genuinely concerned about the cultural provision in their own municipalities. It was said here from the pulpit before today that we have been around the city depending on the local economy. We had an increase in the current year of over 6 billion kroner. At least I can't think that we've had this much increase before. Nevertheless, wear out the municipalities with the economy. We know that, but I also know that there are a lot of local politicians who are concerned about how culture should come up with the priorities they have. So far I stand firm that I don't want to go in for a cultural law. I didn't think the arguments used for the laws are strong enough for me to conduct the municipalities in such a way as a cultural law would lead to.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-01.ana.ud1667e836	I want to ask the council two questions. One is for the Nynorsk media centre, where the setting asks the Ministry and the NRK to ensure a stable and long-term economic base. The second is what a co-consultant committee has said that it is a national responsibility to contribute to technological development in the context of the direct texting of TV programmes. The question to the Council of State is: how will it grasp these two areas, given what is in the setting?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-01.ana.ud1667e845	When it's about the bet on the new Norway, we have two different things that are on the stairs. First of all, I hope that the Stortinget agrees with the proposal in the message presented yesterday by the Minister of Education, to bet on a new Norwegian centre in connection with the Ivar Aasen Tunet. The second is that we are investing in a neo-Norwegian competence development centre in Förde in the context of media education. It should probably be opened now in September, and I expect that the center will take care of what is also the intention of the plural comment in the setting. It is important that we have good drug users in the media. I think this center, which has got a very skilled leader, will do a good job in this way to find out more employees. When it comes to direct texting TV programs, it's something we're in a continuous dialogue with the NRK about. It's going to go on. We have goals in relation to the development of that offer and we hope that we will get to the goal if not too much time.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-01.ana.ud1667e854	First of all, with movies. It was not Trond Giske, it was Stortinget who asked the Council of State to submit a report on the film before 1 March. It gave the state council the bluff in. She presented it on 12 March and now demands that the Culture Committee examine it within 14 days. What I mean about it, I don't think I can be said in this room! So until the Council of State says about the cultural effort. As I read the setting from the government parties, the government parties say no to the concrete stakes of the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre's party. Let me frame them up, and then the Council of State may subsequently correct if it is nevertheless such that the parties of government are in: You say no to 1 pst. of the budget for culture. They say no to an investigation into the living conditions of artists. They say no to the objective that all children should be offered cultural schools. You say no to make sure that the film success is followed up with increased appropriations, so that you can make 20 movies and get 25 pst. by the cinematographic viewer to watch Norwegian films. They say no to their own support scheme for dance. They say no to call about the Free Fund funds to non-governmental organisations – plus other points. I am asking for correction if we have misunderstood.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-01.ana.ud1667e882	With regard to film, I understand that the committee needs more time. That's what I said. But what I don't understand is that Trond Giske got the whole thing with her not to give me any more time. No, that's what they said! When it comes to these bets that Trond Giske says we won't go in for: I have, among other things, tried to figure out how much it would cost to give a cultural ball to all the elephants. I have not yet received the answer. I wonder if Trond Giske can give me the price tag. Here it's about finding money for all the good suggestions. Our people at Stortinget have made a commitment to this message. Many of the things in the cultural elevator are inside this message. That doesn't mean one has to say yes to all comments from an opposition. This is the reason. I also see in the newspaper that it's being speculated whether we're going to support Trondheim symphony orchestras and Stavanger symphony orchestras, not just the orchestra in Bergen, because it's multiple for that. So, the message is on the ground, and that's where we say we should bet on strengthening, among other things. symphony orchestra in Stavanger, Bergen, Trondheim and Tromsø. When it comes to the other proposals, our people at Stortinget will of course evaluate them as we present the budget. There are many of the proposals in the cultural lift that are good, and I can promise that we will include them in the further work. [[President clubs]] But we commit ourselves first to what is in the message, and to what a multiple has joined in the setting. [[President clubs]] I'm sorry I took too much time.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-01.ana.ud1667e893	Yes, the Council of State can!
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-01.ana.ud1667e896	I want the word of a manifest misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-01.ana.ud1667e903	I'm not giving the word to obvious misunderstandings during line changes. Where appropriate, the representative may draw on a three-minute insert. The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-01.ana.ud1667e908	I'm not going to go into the hyphenation between the Workers' Party and the Government. They get to clean that up by themselves. There will probably be an interesting debate that we can follow in addition to the three-minute speeches. Since the Committee gave its opinion last Monday, very much of the media's attention has been focused on two sections of the vote: the comments of the Progress Party at the top of page 37, where the theme is Norwegian culture versus the culture of our new compatriots. There are almost no limits to the distinction we've been exposed to. It is possible that some of the criticism may have been justified – not that our view is wrong, but we may have been too unexplained to explain what we actually mean. Maybe we've also used some crazy words. Let's say that the Progress Party wants our new compatriots, immigrants of different kinds, to be integrated into Norwegian society, and to be trained in and familiar with Norwegian language, Norwegian culture and Norwegian society. If they're going to work in Norway, they need to be able to communicate with us who live here, and understand how our society and our culture are complex, and how it works. If we do not get to this, the results, as we know, are unemployment among immigrants, conflicts, unrest, racism, violence, etc. Norwegian culture is initially under pressure, among others. as a result of increased globalisation. In fact, we're not a very large and populous country, barely 4 million. human beings. Therefore, we should concentrate on using the public crowns that are to be used for culture, to preserve Norwegian culture – the little we have left of it – not using our public crowns to integrate the culture of immigrants into ours. Of course, immigrants should be allowed to continue their song, their folk dance, their literature, their food traditions, etc., but we don't want to spend public money on this. It is clear that Norwegian culture up through time has been influenced by other cultures. However, these are cultures that are far closer to our own. It is clear that culturally there is a shorter route between Norway and Denmark, Norway and Germany or Norway and the United States than is actually between Norwegian culture and Somali, Vietnamese, Iraqi, Iranian, Pakistani, Indian, Turkish, etc. Another thing is that in immigrant cultures there are some features that we want to fight with beaks and claws against integrating into Norwegian culture. This applies, inter alia, to: violations of human rights, such as oppression of women, sexual mutilation, intolerance, violation of freedom of expression, terrorism, etc. Immigrants should be clearly informed that this is something we do not want in Norway. In addition, we see the cultural effort in an integration perspective. Clearly, it would be good for the integration of immigrants into Norwegian cultural activities, their participation in Norwegian sports teams, Norwegian choirs, Norwegian amateur theatres, etc. They will then gain a better understanding of Norwegian language, culture and society. Perhaps we can also mitigate the conflicts and problems that have arisen as a result of significant immigration. In this, it is on the part of the Progress Party that we want to equalise immigrants and the Nordics, and that we do not want cultural special measures for immigrants. This we believe is a policy that will significantly reduce both conflicts and racism.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-01.ana.ud1667e923	Today, when we are dealing with a cultural message that is about to spread cultural policy until 2014, we should have some visions – something to stretch forward and something that raises culture higher on the roadmap for priorities. This cultural message does not exactly give this promise. And when the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre are trying to raise cultural policy up and down by aiming for about 1 pst by 2014. by the State budget for cultural purposes, yes, this objective is characterised as populist. It's sad, because culture also needs economic predictability to develop further. I quote Hege Duckert in Dagbladet, who writes the following March 31st: ‘Ap’s Trond Giske is accused of operating solo and playing politics. But that is exactly what the sleepy cultural policy needs: someone in the throat of the government, who does not accept that the Minister of Finance is the real Minister of Culture and who is impatient, agitated and does not want to wait for a trip." I didn't say this, it was a quote. I think there's a lot of health in well-being and commitment, whether it's amateur theater, dance performances, choirs, corps, museums or rocking groups. If the Minister of Culture wanted to be a little creative and innovative, she should talk to the Minister of Health about funds. The Minister of Health is putting millions on the table to make people eat healthy and trim. The Minister of Culture could start by removing VAT at dance events. I say like the Prussian: ‘D’ is a falsity for him as a din, but if you stand still and feel, then it is a falsity, as it happens!’ The Labour Party wants good cultural services not to be reserved for resource-intensive groups of good economy. For example, the working party will: not that cultural schools are so expensive that it is only an offer for those children who have parents with a good economy. There's a lot of good culture being produced in this country. Good support schemes will trigger a lot of commitment and give individual practitioners and audience a lot of cultural joy. The many festivals clearly show how much cultural activity is created in the countryside and in municipalities throughout our long-term country. I want to stay with something I've been committed to for years in the cultural sector. This is how we can give children and young people a good cultural offer together. Every year, the Festival Games in Elverum gather the young symphonyists into a party play week where young performers with artistic and eventful qualities are put together. The games in Elverum are unique in their genre in Hedmark, and there have been countless attempts to give the Festival games in Elverum node status. This would give the party games an economic boost and the opportunity to further develop their artistic concept of the funding key that indicates a state involvement of 60 pst. of the government grant. And I ask the Council of State straight out: why in all the world won't the Council of State, Right and Christian People's Party here in the hall give the parties in the Elverum node status? We have been working on cultural communication for a long time, and have received many small and large impressions about local action. They are not forgotten even if they are not mentioned. And to me as a heathmark, there's something that is absolutely not forgotten, and it's the Aubergust Center in Alvdal, which we're going to have plenty of opportunity to come back to in the budgetary procedure. I am grateful and pleased that the Committee unanimously decided to grant the Prøysenhuset annual appropriations. The work on the cultural message has been incredibly instructive and interesting. There have been many enquiries and recordings that, in sum, have shown that there is a variety of cultural offerings and artistic expressions around our country. And like Hege Duckert so nicely it expresses the message of culture: ‘It could have been summed up in Ap’s old slogan ‘Stay course’. Cultural policy is moving forward, millimetres by millimetres, but nodding ahead of great leaps. When Stortinget deals with the proposals today, they would come a long way if they agreed on a jump. There is no Wirkola on the brink." It is such a hope that we are committed to through an offensive cultural policy – a sin that the government parties will not participate in this.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-01.ana.ud1667e956	I'm proud to be part of a party that's on the cultural level. Mobilising value for a thriving art and cultural policy will be one of the most important tasks for SV in the future. Then I will give tribute to both the Workers' Party and the Center Party for having now been involved in two important demands that SV has been working for for many years, namely that 1 pst. of the State budget to go to culture and a cultural law. Then I will give tribute to all the organisations that have worked for these requirements and made the Culture Letter in 2001. It is an effort that can lead to a new government in 2005. I hear the rapporteur believes that our demands diverge attention from the values and the large lines. Well, well -- everyone knows, including the case rapporteur, I think, that cultural life needs more money. Here it's about priorities. Should resources go to balls and frigates, or to art and culture and something to live for? When we discussed cultural diversity in the autumn, I called for a greater offensive to give artists with ethnic minority backgrounds access to the Norwegian art scene. Because there are powerful structures that keep them out, this requires brave choices. I am glad that the government parties follow us a bit on the road in the setting, among other things. that cultural diversity must be reflected in the celebration both in 2005 and 2014. But it's not enough to agree with the descriptions. There is a need for courageous measures such as quotaing into the board, designation of aspiring and scholarship schemes, qualification measures for the arts schools and cooperation with the arts in the countries where the minority population comes from, such as Mela in 2002, which received a very positive evaluation. I am pleased that the majority proposes that the project International Cultural Centre in Drammen should be given the status of a development project and secured sound funding. It's important to build on the solid work done in the Drama. Through this, the minority population can be guaranteed the right to express themselves through art, i.e. freedom of expression, experience and participation, and not least give us the opportunity to become acquainted with the unknown. That's how, as the Minister of Culture also said, cultural life has evolved all along. It's just the Progress Party that didn't get it. I have to tell Ulf Erik Knudsen that what he's talking about is that immigrants should go into Norwegian cultural life unilaterally and thus not give the North the opportunity to experience magic, for example. SV notes that it is also important to support existing institutions and scenes that have developed from below in the multicultural field, often on the initiative of and in cooperation with representatives of the minority population. This applies, for example: Center for African Cultural Dissemination, Cosmopolite, Nordic Black Theatre, etc. SV will have an offensive policy to ensure better living conditions for artists and thus the right to contribute to their art. It is therefore important to carry out a life-cycle survey of artists, both creators and performers. Then we'll come back to the question whether there should also be a new art message. Let me flag one position: we see that it is important to work for more work grants for younger artists, but we do not want to be involved in depleting the guarantee income scheme. It is especially important for visual artists and artisans and has, it has proved, made it possible for artists to work and live outside Oslo. Schemes that allow artists to live throughout the country are essential for us to have living communities with an up-to-date cultural life. For this reason, it is important that artists are given jobs through decoration missions, missions by cultural institutions, funds for free groups, but also grant schemes, including guarantee income. So, finally, SV will work to ensure that the dance team, among other things. through its own support scheme in the Norwegian Cultural Council. I then refer to the amazing job done by Carte Blanche. Anyone who has seen their performances will rejoice over it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-01.ana.ud1667e980	Without art and culture, Norway becomes a poor country. Without more means of culture, art and culture become poor. How can we facilitate an offensive cultural policy that creates even greater diversity and artistic creativity in the future? I do not find that a good response in the message, but I find many answers on what Culture-Norway looks like today. The Workers' Party wants to develop cultural life as society evolves, and then we have to take a great deal of action and take them now. We have the theatre people, the dancers, the filmmakers, the singers, the choir and the corps, cultural memory protection, etc., but we lack the economic resources to realize a national cultural effort. Norway aims to be a cultural nation, and then the budget for culture needs to be increased in the years to come. The Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party take the challenge, and want to increase the cultural budget by 1 pst. by the State budget. This will set a trail in future Culture Norway, and I hope it can become a reality after 2005. Then I also hope that the value of culture as a nutritional basis is put properly on the map. Here I expect Innovation Norway to look with new eyes at the value of investing in culture and industry. The county must be a cultural and economic developer, in which case it is necessary for the department to find the future role of the counties and municipalities in the development of regional and local culture Norway. It is local and regional that most of the culture is created and practiced. For many years the county councils have pointed out that the legislation on the distribution of grants to regional and local cultural houses has been for central government. This was done by a majority at Stortinget when the rules for the drugs were changed. Unfortunately, the Progress Party has abandoned the agreement and wishes to continue to have a centralized distribution, which means less to local and regional cultural houses. Why the Advance Party has chosen to support the government parties in the distribution to local cultural houses is not so difficult to understand when reading a particular sentence in the note from the three parties, which reads: ‘The majority believe that investments in the sail bulkheads may also fall within the scope of this scheme.’ I have no objection to sailing cuts, but investments in these must be financed in ways other than by taking money from meeting places for children and young people. Norway is in a process of consolidating the museums of smaller units. This process is too many states quite demanding. For Nordic countries, this process has created both participation and enthusiasm. Both municipalities and county councils have taken part in the process and have also contributed to the funding. In Nordland, we've got $3 million. kr from the State for the consolidation work. This has resulted in a basis for professional management and concentration of resource use, which benefits most municipalities. Three major museums in Northern Ireland are publicly funded and have indirect funding, and are likely to join when the state has clarified its plans for the purely state museums. I also hope that the fast-haul ship «Old Finnmarken» in Stokmarknes can become part of this network. The museums are an important arena for children. Through the cultural school bag, all schoolchildren get to know, and are happy about, our history and culture. Much cultural history is also at stake in church music. The Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party enter to establish a church musical centre for North Norway in Bodø. Unfortunately, we did not get a majority for that, because the Right Party, and not least the Christian People's Party, would not support this. Finally, I would like to say a few words about dance. Finally, we can hope that the dance will have proper opportunities to stand out as a separate cultural expression. Through the cultural school and the cultural school system, more will want to become performers in the future. It's probably too far to imagine that you can dance into a church musical center, but then we'll get to build scenes in both the north and the south, and give the dance a chance.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-01.ana.ud1667e1007	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – There are 20 representatives who have signed up.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-01.ana.ud1667e1010	It's great that so many people are involved in the cultural debate. That's what we wanted. It is, as the Minister of Culture said, a marked day for Norwegian cultural policy. I think it's been an exciting debate. There was something the representative Lund Bergo from SV said, and as I noticed. He said that Norway has a good cultural policy, that we are the best cultural nation in the world, and that we want to maintain the idea of Culture Norway and further develop it. He was proud of Norwegian cultural policy – and there are considerations I fully share. I actually want to give tribute to the representative Lund Bergo that he is at least honest and through it makes visible that the watershed and the deep gulf that the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party are trying to draw, until those degrees are constructed. There is, of course, a majority in the Government's communication on culture, and many of the proposals made in this cultural promise are agreed upon. The divorce is $30 million. kr per year. We're not looking at that right now, we're going to get back to that in the budget negotiations. It is a very demanding and comprehensive treatment of the cultural message we are now standing at the end of. I would also like to pay tribute to the rapporteur and to the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection for their thorough and good work. The exposure from Culture-Norway, both the volunteer and the professional, has been large. A lot of good and constructive input has been made, and I think that is a good promise for implementation. The position we are about to adopt today seems to me to show that there is a broad majority – all except the Progress Party – on the broad lines of cultural policy, on the fundamental principles, on the main priorities and on the economic commitment. In the Culture Communication, a bet for the next ten years is about $1 billion. The only party that stands outside this broad majority, both in terms of public spending, and in terms of the basic understanding of culture and what it means for a society, not least in a globalised world, is the Progress Party. Both through remarks, in the public debate and today, they have presented their main message of cultural policy in a historyless and unintelligible way, and it makes a sea, and indeed a deep gulf, visible between the Right and the Advance Party on fundamental values. I agree with the representative, Mr Knudsen, that the promotion of the cultural policy of the Progress Party has been justified. However, I do not agree that they have been imprecise. In his statement, Mr Knudsen merely underlines and confirms what has been written in the vote by the Progress Party and what has been going on in the public debate over the last few days. I also noticed that the representative Knudsen said there were barely 4 million inhabitants in Norway. I mean, it's 4.5 million. Then the question will be whether he has subtracted all of them with a migrant background. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-01.ana.ud1667e1029	Since its presentation in August 2003, several environments and regions have been developing an institute for popular music. Namsos has been working for several years, in fact since 1992, to establish what was first called the Norsk Rock Museum, eventually a Rock City concept. Namsos has worked closely with a variety of professional environments. The plans are coordinated in Trøndelag, and the cities of Trondheim and Namsos together cover the professional content of what can be called the ‘Institute of Norwegian Popular Music’. Trøndelag launches a two-part layout: Rock City Namsos, with its own building for museum, secondary education, education, experience and business development Establishment of archives – physical and digital – and higher education and research in Trondheim In total, the units constitute a fully-fledged centre of archives, resources and competences for Norwegian popular music. In most respects, it can be argued that it should be in Oslo. But there is no doubt that the Trøndelag region has good legitimacy in popular music in the perspective of Ddva, DDE, Ddbli. A «Institute of Norwegian Popular Music» in Trøndelag will be able to play on teams with important support players such as NTNU, NRK, UNINET, Ringve Museum and the ABM Center Dora. Namsos has come a long way in the update of the ABM structure through the North-Trundelag consolidation, and the creation of the North-Trundelag Kunstmuseum in Namsos, co-located with Rock City, is assumed. Namsos will have great advantage of the brand Rock City Namsos, or rock town Namsos. At the same time, the city has a size that makes it possible to build a complete cityscape that characterizes the city and makes it Rock City. Trondheim has the advantage that it has been proved that major events and events can take place there. It's quite exactly 30 years since the Prudence group sang about the sawmill, and how dependent Namsos was on the timber industry. At the end came a dialectic sigh: 'the day the saga stands, then stop society!' The storymakers have almost stopped, but the Namsos community now wants to build on what is created by pop history. I think they should be allowed to do that by making a decision on the location of Rock City and the archive in Trondheim in this room today.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-01.ana.ud1667e1051	I very much appreciate this cultural message. Culture and belonging are important factors for our identity. Culture in the broadest sense is helping to mold us as human beings throughout our lives. We who are born and raised along our long-range coast want our culture to be brought to our children and grandchildren with pride. Coastal culture reconstructs life and settlement along the coast, and up there the maritime route was the most important transport year. In this picture, our main transporters were on the coast and in trade with the rest of the world. In Norway, we have three sailors who are important ambassadors for our culture. It is the full rigger «Southern Land», «Statsraad Lehmkul» and «Christian Radich». They've been, and are, three floating communication arenas for the history of the coast. School classes of young people, young people and older people together, can be involved in the shooting. Think of the great opportunity there is for the dissemination of our story! These great sailors are also floating ambassadors for us abroad. In recent years, the shootings have lacked funds for maintenance, which we in the Right have been concerned about. This will be changed today. The right has had this as an important matter for several years, and is therefore very pleased that the new State grant scheme now includes our three sailors. There is a grant scheme for regional meeting places and dissemination venues for culture. Right-hand looks at the sailing shooters as one of the best distribution arenas for our coastal culture and our maritime history.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-01.ana.ud1667e1064	The debate on the cultural message is more important than ever. In a time of rapid shifts, more social unrest and increasing commercial pressure, an active cultural policy will help give us something to live for, not just by. Political change and public space need more than ever the expression of an active cultural life. In contrast to an increasingly tabloid and popularised reality, cultural impulses can also help both raise their eyes and create critical counter-representations to an increasingly compact majority. In addition, for many of us, the cultural offer becomes the space where one actually also has no choice, either to the challenges of everyday life or to major human and political challenges. In our sloping safety, we really need training to accept, register and perceive, and let's move. Now, when the Workers' Party thinks it's time for the great cultural promise, it's in the certainty that the government's bet is not enough, and that we actually need the counterweight that lies in the cultural expressions of the market-driven society, a Right-dominated government is constantly ruling against us. There are visions of a goal that says that 1 pst. of the State budget to go to culture. It would be a lift. A separate cultural law would give the public clear obligation to organise bets. In this context, I would really like to distance as much as possible from the sluggishness expressed by the Progress Party in the vote and in the debate that has recently taken place. The scepticism they express about integrating the culture of our new countrymen into our own is actually an expression of a sense of reality in the field of culture that would make the culture harmless and boring. Fortunately, cultural expressions today are about more than stave churches and Viking ships, if it were so genuine in Norwegian. To use the language theme of the Progress Party – I think Norwegian and Norwegian culture have a good thing to do. Theatre plays, dances, songs and reading experiences are today just a result of external influences. Luckily, and thank you for that. The question must be: Is there no longer a rock in the Progress Party? Finally, I must be allowed to go to a local but important matter. The games in the Elverum must now receive the recognition that lies in a node status. It is a great pity that the government parties and the Progress Party will not follow up here. It's not too late to turn around. The party games have evolved into a manifestation of young musical creative power with a particular high quality. The games of parties are growing and have become a gathering event for the hinterland. It is celebrated in the year 30th anniversary. If the node status is not ensured by the processing of this message today, the Government should be strongly invited to consider giving such status during the anniversary year of the Festival Games in Elverum.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-01.ana.ud1667e1080	The Culture message is an important message, which will mean a lot for Kultur-Norway until 2014. In line with some other areas of society, women are still under-represented in key positions in Norwegian cultural life, and cultural messages are clearly lacking a gender perspective. This committee is responsible for much more than culture. It is also the committee at Stortinget which is responsible for equality. The Council of State has also been involved in a recent debate in Sport-Norway, which shows how important this perspective is. With the exception of the Advancement Party, the entire Committee – and I am very proud of that – underlines the importance of focusing on gender and gender equality in Norwegian cultural life. It is laid down in the Gender Equality Act that the actual state of equality in establishments required to draw up annual reports is to be accounted for. Actions taken and measures planned to promote equality and to prevent discrimination contrary to this Act shall also be described. Public authorities and establishments which are not required to draw up annual reports shall make similar statements in their annual budget. SV will stress the importance of focusing on gender perspective and gender perspective in Norwegian cultural life. We get a lot of information about this, both that it's hard to get a job for women artists after a certain age, and that it's problematic to get into some studies. In Sweden, the question of quotaing was considered by the Swedish Minister of Culture in response to low female representation among Swedish filmmakers. We have the same problem in Norway. Participation of both sexes in terms of artistic and cultural expressions is right and necessary for future Culture Norway. Together with the Workers' Party and the Centre Party, SV proposes that gender equality be explained in the various cultural-Norway establishments and that measures be taken to prevent discrimination contrary to the Equality Act. SV would also point out that the geographical distribution of cultural resources is very uneven in relation to the population of the counties. This bias can have consequences in addition to the fact that some states get significantly more than others. Arts and culture will have better conditions in some states than in others. The importance of art and culture in the community may have an impact on increased employment and not least on the future. In the case of new start-ups, the priority should be given to small-scale rural areas. It should be the responsibility of that committee in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-01.ana.ud1667e1093	There are many definitions of politics. One of them is that politics is holistic. In an increasingly specialised society, it is important that the whole of society be debated. I feel that cultural policy is the policy area in which we are constantly forced to see the complexity of society around us. We see that culture and the different forms of expression within culture intervene in most policy areas. In this article, I want to try to touch the relationship between business and culture. The breadth of cultural life is great, and cultural life in various ways has a direct and indirect impact on business. The main task is to help businesses contribute to a greater responsibility for cultural policy and to assist in the growth and development of the cultural sector. It is clear that the public has the primary responsibility to finance the ideal and non-commercial cultural life. Nevertheless, cultural life cooperates with enterprises, and in many ways enterprises are also sources of funding. The traditional context is seen, among other things. within travel life and at the large number of festivals held annually in the country. Technological development has given us new opportunities to communicate art and culture. It is expressed in cooperation between modern forms and traditional cultural activities. We must be aware that in the Western world is the production and export of films, music, magazines, books, etc. among the largest export articles. In a small country such as Norway, with a small market, innovation Norway and SIVA must be active in and contribute to processes in which cultural life will also try to assert itself in the export market. Finally, I would like to point out the initiative of the Business Committee two years ago, on the National Centre for Housing and Crafts in Rennebu. It has now become Birka, a company to help sew art, crafts and business together in such a way that one takes care of traditions, but also contributes to the highest degree to value creation. I am pleased that a unanimous committee points out that we have a responsibility to assist with the drag aid for this project.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-01.ana.ud1667e1111	If you ask people what is culture for them, a few different answers will be: a good book, a challenging play, music that touches you, an amazingly great sporting event, dance that illustrates your own feelings, design and architecture that we resent and that we proudly show. It could be traditional, it could be innovative, it could be inspired by what was, by what is, and by what can come. Cooperation across culture and cultural expressions can provide new and exciting constellations: Theatres and symphony orchestras working together to create a foundation and working together on operas can also result in coordination and plans for joint theatres and concert halls, as has been done in South Africa – which can provide exciting activities in the future, and which the Committee has also noted and commented on as positive. I must also be allowed to mention our sailors. A southern heart can swell with pride when the sailing ship «Southern» lays out the village fjord with full sail. But I must admit that I had not imagined the representative Woldseth as a gallon figure in the inner picture! [[Laughter]] I'm sorry, but she probably wasn't in my picture of the full rigger! But I'm glad we've had a time-fixed goal to take back a maintenance seat to take care of our coastal culture. The Foundation Institute of Norwegian Popular Music works to establish an institution for the collection and preservation and dissemination of Norwegian pop music. They're working on more options. I am pleased that a majority of the Committee wants such an institute, also in the context of a future museum and experience centre, now to have a good process anchored in the professional environment and in cooperation with local and national actors. I think it is worrying that someone wants to run in front of the genre environment and the professional community in such a process. Finally, there are two things that have puzzled me very much in this setting and the process. It is the Party of Advancement's belief that Norwegian culture has become in a vacuum without contact with others, and their fear of something which, in the opinion of the Christian People's Party, is a enriching interplay between cultures. But it is also strange that the Socialist Left will not be able to stress the importance of Christian values and motives for a great many artists and culturalists. In the opinion of the Christian People's Party, both these attitudes are an expression and a fear of something that is not one's own position, and as the Christian People's Party believes Norway as a cultural nation will be enriched by having present.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-01.ana.ud1667e1124	The President is absolutely sure that Eriksen's representative will find many models for good Gaul characters here in the hall! [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-01.ana.ud1667e1128	It is good to go from talking about Gauls to talking about the Stavanger region applying for the status of European Capital of Culture in 2008. Finally, clarification is expected in the Council of Europe at the end of the next month. But a unanimous jury has a clear and positive attitude in which it praises the application from the Stavanger region. The jury believes that Stavanger has submitted a strong and bold application. When Stavanger Right took this initiative, it was not to get a year's bet with extraordinary government funds, but to set a high target that would be the result of a long-term strategic effort that also pointed forward. Stavanger's history and Stavanger's cultural heritage are linked to the port. That's why there's a clear line from the time our Christian culture came sailing into that port, until Stavanger now is a city that feels like a safe haven, among other things. for persecuted authors. The involvement of the Capital of Culture shall be rooted in our cultural heritage and history. The region wants to use the international commitment that already exists to link new contacts and networks in Europe. The cultural urban year aims to move beyond regional borders and involve actors from all over the country and internationally. So this bet is not only a measure that one goes towards, but it is also an engagement that points both forward and outward. I am therefore very pleased that the Council of State has previously chosen to invest significantly in this commitment and to support this region's application, and that the Stortinge has confirmed it, and not least because the Committee, with the exception of the Progress Party, supports this. For those who are usually involved in health issues, it is worth noting that in OECD countries the cost of health increases proportionally with the standard of living. This means that these costs are not necessarily related to the health situation, but perhaps to the need to fill life with something. I'm convinced that as a nation, we might have earned so much money on culture that in the absence of anything else, one would have filled his life with more culture instead of more medicine.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-01.ana.ud1667e1143	Cultural diversity in a globalised world acts, among other things: about ideas, thoughts, art, news, food and people changing. Two perceptions that have been expressed in the debate on globalisation are firstly that globalisation leads to the loss of social and cultural peculiarities and, secondly, to social and cultural prominence. I think both of these opinions are very one-sided, at the limit of the direct crazy, and they can neither be coated analytically nor empirically. If we look at Norwegian culture, in modern times it has been an arm of the common Western European culture. What we can call Norwegian in the area of culture is in very many cases produced abroad. Peer Gynt was written in Italy, and of Ibsen's other production very much is written in Germany. Several of Norway’s leading national romantic painters came from the Düsseldorf school. Common to all of them is that they can be understood as expressions of the common European culture. What we see today is that cultural impulses don't stop at Gibraltar or in the Caucasus, but that impressions spread all over the globe. The awareness of national peculiarities and of the identity of a culture depends on the awareness and awareness of something else. Globalisation can therefore mean a greater awareness of one's own cultural and social identity in the field of culture, as one will have to see oneself in relation to cultural expressions from all over the world. Furthermore, globalisation is not just about getting to know each other, but perhaps first and foremost about creating a new common future in which we all feel at home. Unlike the Progress Party, the Right believes that immigration should be a cultural contribution to development at all levels. Art plays a particularly important role here. These include: in the art arena the critical questions can be asked, and that is in the art the new expressions are created. Art can also help us digest and name the many questions that arise when world cultures meet, including in the small format here at home in Norway. Finally, I would like to pay tribute to the Minister of Culture, who has presented a comprehensive and offensive communication on culture, where globalisation, internationalisation and cultural diversity are among the main objectives of cultural policy in the coming decade. If time permits, I will also link some comments to the Progress Party. I believe that this cultural debate is essentially about having mutual respect and understanding of each other's cultures. Unfortunately, however, I just have to say that mutual respect and understanding are words that the Progress Party does not have in its party dictionary.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-01.ana.ud1667e1160	I will continue where the representative Rafiq ended. To my colleague, Ulf Erik Knudsen, from Drammen, who earlier today tried to clarify what the Progress Party really meant by its inbreeding policy in terms of immigrant culture: All the great Norwegian culture has been created and developed as a result of external influences. Knudsen says that Norway and Sweden and Denmark are quite alike, so from there we have probably picked up a little, but in some countries far away, there is something else. He mentioned Vietnam in his post. In my immediate family, I have a former stammering representative who has become known as the spokesman for the rotted Norwegian folk music. The mouth harp, which is his main instrument, was supposed to be something that was developed and invented in the Norwegian mountain cottage. Bug! make-hint The mouth harp probably came to Europe, to Venice, with Marco Polo and spread around Europe. It doesn't come from China either, but from the jungle in Vietnam, which was one of the countries Knudsen mentioned in his post as hopelessly long away. This is just one example of Norwegian culture always occurring as a result of external impulses. Then strange words have been developed like rose-painting, imported from southern Europe, and mouth-harpe from Vietnam. When Knudsen and I travel back to Drammen tonight, we live in it next to Oslo's most ethnically concentrated city in Norway. That is why I am pleased that this is taken seriously by the Committee, which, with the exception of the Progress Party, is in favour of the International Cultural Centre in Drammen being given the status of a development project to ensure sound funding. The remark about this is somewhat unclear as it says: ‘... the project ‘International Cultural Centre Drammen’ shall be given status as a development project in which the State, through the Norwegian Cultural Council, is guaranteed sound funding.’; I assume that the majority believe that it is the project that must be properly funded and not the state. It can probably be clarified by the case rapporteur. Cultural melting crucibles always convey cultural expressions in new exciting ways. That being said, one can interpret with great goodwill the Progress Party to that that one believes that in order to value the culture of others one must know one's own. I'm also concerned about that. If you are safe on your own culture and background, you have much greater joy and interest in the culture, tradition and custom of others. Let the International Cultural Centre in Drammen become a melting pot that cooperates with the fabulous children’s and youth theatre in Drammen, Bragettheatret, and other actors. It will be exciting and will also give the entire Norwegian cultural life a boost. The Culture Communication points forward, but the proposals must be implemented by means of budgetary decisions in this Chamber. I'll end by saying that I'm very happy that the committee joins the ministry's principal position that culture has a value in itself. Of course, it should be, but too often culture has been the garrison to be used to promote health, anti-rust, business and other good measures. Culture stands well on its own feet and needs no passports to get its status.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-01.ana.ud1667e1180	In Norway, we have had a reasonably good arrangement for decorating the public space. The centre party is concerned that this could be weakened by restructuring and renting private buildings for public works. The vision that art should characterize the public space is strongly anchored in Norwegian society. The basic idea is that different forms of artistic expression should exist in a vital way in all parts of our society, and that art should become a natural part of the existence and the open path of experience and insight. The scheme must apply to all public establishment, regardless of whether the building is eighted or rented by the public, and irrespective of its organisational form. The Council of State said in its statement that there were no major differences between the Government Party and the Workers' Party, SV and the Central Party in relation to this policy area. In the light of what the Council of State said, I would like to express the hope that the Government Party can support our proposal, No. 10, which is included in the configuration. The cultural sphere is perhaps one of our most important cultural mediators, with commitment and activity, and it can be future professional practitioners who are being offered today in municipal cultural spheres. Unfortunately, the poor local economy is a corollary reason why prices are increasing, and that many who want to do so are not allowed to participate in the cultural sphere because of too high prices. The centre party boasts the creation of a national jazz scene and a national scene for folk music and folk dance. It is important to underline the position of the living folk-cultural environment around the country. I would particularly like to mention the cooperation between Sogn and Fjordane Theatre, Sogn and Fjordane County Council and the folk music festival in Fjordde, as a good example of cooperation in the development, renewal and dissemination of Norwegian folk music and folk dance. Finally, I would like to highlight the important role of municipalities and county councils in national cultural policy. It is therefore important to remember that a tight and reduced municipal budget can have very negative consequences for Norwegian cultural policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-01.ana.ud1667e1193	Our own Christian and humanistic cultural heritage is a product of a historical interaction between our own traditions and impulses from other cultures. Our cultural heritage consists of a variety of changing identities and different voices to be expressed. Although there are few – fortunately few – in this room that do not quite agree with me, I believe that there is no doubt that the meeting with other cultures is an enrichment for our society. It's quite possible to be open to new impulses, while trying to hold on to fundamental values that are reflected in our own cultural heritage. One of these basic values, which for the Right is of great importance, is respect for what is different. In St.meld. No 19 for 2002–03 A world of opportunities, this is described in a very good way. It says: ‘The objective of preserving cultural heritage must not mean excluding cultural policy, either in relation to the multicultural situation in which we live or in relation to innovative and frontier-breaking cultural expressions. It must therefore be a primary objective of cultural policy to promote cultural diversity and to facilitate the encounter of different cultures on equal premises.’.» Cultural exchange and participation in joint projects in the country and abroad have become a prerequisite for the acquisition of impulses and empowerment in the Norwegian society. In the coming years, individual and collective cross-border networking will become increasingly crucial for full professional development and response. Globalisation has undoubtedly helped to increase the diversity of cultural impulses, but we must not neglect the responsibility of the poorest developing countries with weak cultural institutions. The less and often vulnerable cultural communities are under constant pressure from the commercial cultural and media industries. Norway clearly has a responsibility there. Globalisation has contributed in many ways to eradicating the distinction between national and international. Artists in the fields of art, education, research and cultural life for the rest of the world today have wide contacts with foreign trade unions and are increasingly actors in a new international public. I am pleased that the Government is working purposefully to facilitate a cultural policy that exploits the opportunities of a more open world society for greater cultural diversity, and that the Government wants to put in place positive actions where cultural diversity is threatened. From a social point of view, international cultural exchanges have become more important for interpersonal understanding, and not least in peacemaking.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-01.ana.ud1667e1215	There is a lot I could have liked to comment on in this very comprehensive and interesting setting, but the time is for me to limit myself to a few points. Art and culture, the ability to have the good experience and the ability and ability to be an active participant, are essential for the individual to have a complete competence. Cultural competence is a naturally integrated and important part of this overall competence. Our own cultural background gives us identity, and the multicultural society gives us new opportunities and new dimensions. Variety of cultural impressions is an enrichment and provides opportunities for exciting development. The message is occupied with the Church as a cultural bearer, and it is very positive that the Church gets space in a cultural message. The Church is an important arena for culture, and the Church is one of our most important cultural bearers. I'm glad that the Church in this area now gets that place it deserves. However, it is worrying that the recruitment of church music churches has stagnated, and it is positive that emphasis is now placed on strengthening the financial framework for church music. We know that earlier the organization was the central person in the community, especially in the community, in relation to music and music. Now this has changed. Culture schools are now the real resource within music in the community, without it leading to the strengthening of church music. But it's probably not in this area that the cultural schools have had their biggest investment. In connection with St.meld. No 39 for 2002-2003 and Innst. S. No 131 dealt with the Stortinget cultural schools. Culture schools have and will continue to play an important role in Norwegian cultural life. Culture schools give children and young people the opportunity to be active participants. I believe that through Stortinget's treatment of St.meld. No 39 there is a good framework for cultural schools to be able to do this in the future. Then it is surprising that once again the opposition focuses on earmarking and thank you for parental payment. The majority of the population is clear that the time of ear tagging for cultural schools is over and that neither can nor should it be thanks to parents. The municipalities themselves must control their own incomes, and we must have confidence that they can do this the best. The cultural schools are so important in the community that I am convinced that in most municipalities they will have a good framework. Let me finally express joy over a local matter. The Committee has addressed the short film festival in Grimstad in a very positive way. This festival has been established and has had a good development in Grimstad due to many people's enthusiasm and great effort. Over the years, the festival has evolved into one of the most important venues for Norwegian films. It is therefore gratifying and a great recognition for all those involved in the festival that it is now being presented as one of the three festivals outside the field of music that the Committee considers it natural to ensure node funding. This wording has aroused enthusiasm in the local environment in Grimstad – and thanks to the Committee for that comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-01.ana.ud1667e1228	In the line change after my post, I promised to come back more closely with a comment on the great cultural promise that the parties on the left have made, and I will now do that. In many ways, it's an affordable play. It's a game that's about trying to stick up some boundaries and get the debate around and about cultural policy, and that's important. So this is how I welcome this recording. But I ask myself, how imaginative is it really, how good craftsmanship is it really, and is it a real arena today to draw up a discussion on? This is an output that's all about committing to a given amount, so it's a input that's just about money. That is what cultural policy has been about as long as I can remember. We're now discussing a message about how much social change has been brought up, but maybe there are other areas where we might as well try to find some contradictions. The discussion to which it is invited is similar to the confusion of the annual budgetary debates we have. To a large extent, open doors are being opened, in the sense that this estimation of good action will be largely supported by government parties. For us, it would be more interesting if we now discussed what is the state's borders with regard to the state's use of funds. Is it true that it is unproblematic to add SEK 1.3 billion to state transfers directly into the department, directly into the cultural council, where, therefore, you are strengthening or dramatically increasing decision-making within the same, maybe a little monotonous, composite bodies as we have seen for a long time? We would like a discussion that was about looking for more sources of culture, looking for sources of funding where we could ensure diversity. We describe a situation where culture, industry, technology and science meet. Where are the measures that could bring these elements together? Here, we could need a slightly more aggressive and imaginative opposition that could contribute to a more imaginative debate than just the eternal cost of more or less money. Where is the international perspective? I see that the Workers' Party and SV, in meeting with the Center Party, have made themselves chemically free from an international perspective. Minorities have been taken into account in Norway, but that is not the most important thing. The most important thing is the networks we're going to have with the rest of the world in the future. In short, it should have been a little bit wider in terms of what we're going to discuss, a little bit more imaginative than just taking up the same issues we've been dealing with for 30 years now. Let's try to expand the arena in the future debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-01.ana.ud1667e1239	When the main lines of cultural policy are to be chiseled into 2014, there is one name that deserves special mention, and that is Henrik Ibsen. In 2006 it was a hundred years since the death of the poet. This should of course be marked. I think it's great that the committee brings out Henrik Ibsen's authorship in particular – not just because of the hundred-year marking, but because as a nation on behalf of the world society, we have a special responsibility to take care of and manage Henrik Ibsen's authorship in the best possible way. I fully agree with the Committee that a long-term strategy is important, and that we should further develop the considerable work that is being done on the hundred-year projects, while being linked to already established Ibsen institutions. Right-wing cultural policy spokesman Olemic Thommessen said in his chronicle in the Evening Post on 25 February that Norway should have an Ibsen Academy in the poet's own home. I agree that Henrik Ibsen's authorship is of the highest world class, and that his position in world literature is undisputed. A writership of the dimension of Ibsen requires a deliberate, long-term strategy, and the Committee shall be in favour of commenting on ‘The Ibsen Academy must have ambitions to be the leading international focal point for Ibsen studies’. An Ibsen institution ‘should be clearly publicised and contribute to Ibsen markings in the home and abroad’, says the Committee in its position. I interpret the Committee as meaning that cooperation with other Ibsen sites will be central. Since I myself come from Skien, Henrik Ibsen's birthplace, I am naturally proud of the great poet, who is worldwide one of the most prominent. From the early 1990s, the municipality of Skien has deliberately chosen to invest in Henrik Ibsen and his authorship. It is, of course, Henrik Ibsen's childhood that is at the heart of Skien's initiative. In particular, I would like to highlight the ‘Spare’, which aims to make children and young people familiar with Ibsen’s life and function. The municipality of Skien wants the ‘Spare’ at national level to provide Ibsen with information for children and young people. The vision is, among other things: that the ‘Pick’ shall be included and put Henrik Ibsen on the map together with other actors. Cooperation between Ibsen cities such as Oslo, Skien and Grimstad is exciting, giving room for many opportunities, both for development and interaction between cities and cities. This is not contrary to an Ibsen Academy in Oslo. On the contrary, I would like to say that the Committee, through its position, has raised Ibsen and provided a good basis for future targeted and long-term work. It deserves our great poems.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-01.ana.ud1667e1252	There are many things you don't get time to say in your first post, which you want to record again, and not everything you can do either. But at least I want to support what the representative Michael Momyr said about Birka's competence centre for housework, craftsmanship and design at Berkåk in Rennebu, which I think is a great move. I am very pleased that we have received full support from an entire committee to achieve cross-ministerial coordination in order to realize this centre. In my first post, I underlined the importance of the big institutions, and that more are to be expanded, but that at the same time we need support schemes that can make it possible to unfold an exciting life as an artist on the outside of the institutions. But there are also others who have lived on the outside of these institutions so far, and they are the church musicians. I am very pleased that many have underlined the importance of church music being now integrated into public cultural policy through this communication. I think that is great, and also that there will be a support scheme for church music through the Council of Culture. Within the state church as well as many other churches and assemblies there is a lot of valuable art in the form of pictures, music associated with various singers, songs and even dance. The church's beliefs and values have been a source of inspiration for artists at all times and are still. It is important that these expressions too can be reflected in the varied and broad cultural dissemination this Communication facilitates. It is also important when reporting points to the untapped potential of the Church-Contemporary Art meeting. We again see a trend towards artists delivering decorations to church buildings that break slightly with the traditional symbols. This can also mean positive challenges for the Church itself and contribute to creating greater proximity between art, church and the individual person within the sacred space. So a little bit about the language. Today we see that Norwegian language is under a strong pressure, perhaps especially from English. Not least the strong internationalisation and use of new technologies reinforce this pressure. It is therefore important now to put strong countermeasures on several fronts. The proposed new centre of expertise for Norwegian languages may prove to be a very important measure. A similar centre must also come for a new Norwegian language. This may have to be seen in connection with the creation of the Nynorsk media center in Förde, which I think can be done with advantage independently of the NRK, so that it can embrace the entire media field. But also other instruments aimed at increasing the interest in Norwegian literature, strengthening the literacy among schoolchildren, etc. must and must be given priority. Finally, I was going to say a little about the volunteer work. We've had a volunteer message of our own. This means that voluntary work has not been given so much space in the cultural message this time. But that doesn't mean that you don't want to bet on Freefonds as a very important tool, and other instruments.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-01.ana.ud1667e1267	I would like to refer to the statements by the representative Thommess on the cultural promise and the 15 points that he thought were incomplete. Of course – we also have many more points and much more policies that we agree on, but that is what we have chosen to focus on. I think Thommess came up with some good questions and objections. If Thommessen is a little patient beyond today, the answers will come. Thommes have commented on our play earlier as imaginative, because it's like thinking about a number. As I said earlier today, if the cultural message is to be realized without a numerical fixation, it's just fantasy, and then we're equidistant. Otherwise, I'd like to spend two minutes in a public library. We have a good library service in Norway, but the libraries are also under pressure, not least because they are under the municipalities. And then we also see what law means. In Norway, we have a library law that obliges municipalities to have library services. I wonder how many municipalities in Norway today would have closed their library services if the law had not been, and then, of course, I think – in terms of transfer – of our desire for a general cultural law. I am a little worried about some of the things in the message. A high priority is given to the National Library and that is correct. But as I see it, it will be given so high priority that it will affect all other services in the library sector. I think that's tragic. We see it in my hometown, Drammen. There we have two branches, one on Konnerud and one on Åsside, urban areas with about 20,000 people who are parishing these, which are laid down, not because they are not visited, and not because it is not a success, but because the municipality lacks money to drive them. Both in such neighbourhoods and in small municipalities around them, the library is often the most important cultural meeting place. In many places it's the only cultural meeting place, at least the only non-commercial meeting place, without the buying press. It's used by children, it's used by old people, it's used by immigrants. It's a fantastic offer, not least now with regard to the Internet etc. I believe that over the last few years we have had too much focus on digitisation, etc. There have, of course, been quite right things to do, but it must not be at the expense of the library as the physical meeting place. That's why I'm concerned, because SV is the only party on Stortinget, together with the Senterpartiet possibly, who says that we don't just want library services in each municipality, but we want the physical library in each municipality. I therefore believe that even local libraries need more resources to survive even in urban areas and small communities.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-01.ana.ud1667e1276	There has been an exciting debate to follow. I've been in the office and I've heard a lot and I've been in the hall, and what's exciting is how many people are engaged in different cultural activities. You hear names all over the country, and you realize that it's a commitment to local action. But it also makes the attention of culture visible. We had a debate here two days ago against the health companies, which, in other words, dispose of NOK 56 billion, where no one other than the members of the social committee got involved. When I look at the cultural budget, I see, for example. that the total sum, as far as I can understand, for Norwegian churches is about One billion kroner. Only the sick pay is in the order of NOK 30 billion, you have a variety of billions on an annual basis, and you say that if you had managed to get what was the goal of the intention agreement, you would have had NOK 10 billion at your disposal. What makes it visible, when discussing cultural activities in this room, is the need in other areas, especially health, to control expenditure growth and exploit resources in a way that allows us to free up more resources for culture. I also have a home address, and you are concerned about it in connection with such a message. It has, for example, in my home municipality Alta has been a great commitment to the realization of church buildings that I think are affordable. Many of the new churches are obviously cultural buildings, where there is an offer to the population, there may be concerts, there may be other events, and then you can see that the local economy is not going to. I have to say that I am pleased that the government's communication on culture points out that churches also have a cultural status and a cultural purpose. But I could imagine challenging the Minister of Culture in relation to how one can contribute to the realization of church buildings under state control. Then I think not only in Alta, but also, when you've seen needs over many years, but see that the funds don't stretch. Then I've also registered – and I think it's exciting – the discussion about a rock museum. Some want it to be in Namsos, and others have also had views on it. I think SV has a reasonable approach by saying, let's now look at the content of the different options, let's not exclude Namsos, but let's first see what kind of concept is best. But what I can record with pride is that Alta already gets his «museum of rock» attached to a rock art museum. At that point, I would also challenge the Council of State and ask: what kind of means can be used to ensure that there are funds? I have recorded that the adviser in Alta has already been out and said that he saw this a little differently than the politicians. We may get it, but we'll have to pay for it ourselves, he said. I hope that the Council of State can assure you that this is not the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-01.ana.ud1667e1286	First, I must correct a manifest misunderstanding on the part of the representative, Dagrun Eriksen. I said in my main post that I would like to stand in front of the bow of the sailboat when it lays out on the fjord, not that I would be nailed to it! That being said, I must also be allowed to say that I am getting quite tired. The Progress Party has 20 pages with their own comments to strengthen cultural life. What this hall has been primarily concerned about today – and I really appreciate it – are two sentences in connection with the Party's cultural policy. It's nice, but I wish that when you discuss the Cultural Policy of the Progress Party, you actually took the cultural policy of the Advance Party into account. We actually have a very good cultural policy, and it clearly deviates from what the others stand for. We're betting, but we're prioritizing, and we're putting a lot of emphasis on prioritizing. So we have proposed funds to strengthen interaction between industry and culture, and we have strengthened the cultural sector by hundreds of millions of dollars. No one has mentioned. We are the only party in the cultural committee that has promoted three cultural proposals to create a cultural debate in this room, both in literature, on the rental of art and on tippers. It is not mentioned. In this setting, we have been focusing on broad culture, we are betting on sailing skates, coastal culture, cultural boat, Nord-Trøndelag Theatre, rock centres, film etc. And the Workers' Party, SV, the Center Party and the Advance Party are actually in agreement in terms of the rock environment and the musician's environment. All of this I hope that everyone would like to read, that they are not suspended in two sentences in the introduction of our remarks. It's just a small fraction of what we actually stand for, and that I have the spine enough to stand for. Then you get to complain and accuse us of not having any cultural policy, but I actually hope that the Workers' Party will listen when we have our posts. Because what we've agreed to with the Right Party and the Christian People's Party is that it's the regional cultural buildings and meeting places that are going to receive a different funding. And so that the sailors are not a meeting place for children and young people: then the jammer representative of the Workers' Party should take a trip to Bergen and look at all the weekly trips children and young people get with our sailors.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-01.ana.ud1667e1295	The government is presenting its cultural message at a time when commercialization and materialization characterize man's everyday life more than ever. The facts, status symbols and basic sensory experiences have apparently taken a dominant position as identity bearers. Often our grief is the absence of objects and our pursuit of material goods. In terms of culture, the Government's message of culture is an answer to the extreme liberalism in which hedonism and materialization crowd out the spirit. We all know the trembling joy over the scent of the bakery's freshly baked bread and the overwhelming temptation of the coveted naked body. Nothing wrong with that. It's only when the sweet cake, the band eroticism and the new car model consume the music's vibrations above the church vault, mother's reading and father's library tours with the pod in hand that we tend to turn each other around. The cultural message is such a mess. It makes us aware of our responsibilities for the spirit dimension of our heritage and our duty to process, expand, include and exclude cultural expressions and conceptions. If we succeed in this project, our children will become part of a world that concerns them, and that does not alienate them – an exciting and contrasting world, colorful and night black, dejected and extremely, but not cold and not empty. The defence against the cynical grievances of cultural materialism is not successful without making any value choices, setting up any value standards. There are human characteristics that value nihilists must not be allowed to take away from us. Maybe we've gone a long way in supporting cultural expressions that are so commercial and so wide that the market does the job itself excellent. No cultural institution is more important than school. There we are confronted with diversity, with power of communication and creation. There we gain the joy of mastering, belonging and curiosity. Every little personal innovation in reading and calculating books is an increase in our cultural capital. The parents and the teacher who has the ability to communicate to the hopeful that between two perms there is an exciting, lifelong adventure, can see the evening of life safely at hand. At the same time, a society should strive for absolute excellence. Our great lighthouse like the Andsnes of the Piano and the Truls of the Strings has reached the top of the world because some actually dare to say that only the best is good enough. That's why we could experience the sensational fact that little Norway could get a symphony orchestra right at the top of the world, at the level of Ibsen and Hamsun, as we get it at the Flagstad Opera in Bjørvika. The philosopher Henrik Groth once said that culture is quality times mass. That's what it's all about – quality times communication capability and dissemination capacity.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-01.ana.ud1667e1317	I record a significant criticism, especially from the Right, of the view of the Progress Party on Norwegian culture versus immigrant culture. Both the Chairman of the Committee, Sonja Sjøli, the representative of Afghan Rafiq and the representative of Trond Helleland have made some very strong contributions. The representative Rafiq and the representative of Greece paint the theme that Norwegian culture is actually influenced by other cultures in the western sphere. Italy, Germany, etc. This is also identical to what I said in my post. It is clear that Norwegian culture up through time has been influenced by other cultures. However, these are cultures that are close to our own. There is a shorter cultural road between Denmark and Norway, between Germany and Norway and between Italy and Norway than is actually between Norwegian culture and Asia and Africa. Rather, there are some examples of cultural things coming to Norway from far away, such as the mouth harp of Trond Helleland’s uncle. With regard to the representative Rafiq, she accused us in the Progress Party of a lack of respect and understanding – an incredible claim in itself. The problems in today's Norway are precisely that the immigrant communities do not have the necessary knowledge and respect and understanding of Norwegian culture, Norwegian language and Norwegian society. If they had, they would understand that here in an enlightened Western democratic society it is unacceptable to bring with them thoughts and attitudes that represent a violation of natural human rights. We do not want attitudes involving women's oppression, sexual mutilation, violation of freedom of expression, terror and violence, etc. I record that the Right says we should have respect and understanding for these attitudes. From the point of view of the Progress Party, we take a different position. We believe that immigrants should have a clear message that this is not something we want in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-01.ana.ud1667e1328	There are many themes I might like to highlight more in connection with the cultural message, but I'm going to focus on one area, the language. ‘The language at stake’ – under this heading, the Director of the Norwegian Language Council, Sylfest Lomheim, had a thought-provoking article in Dagbladet on 10 March. He refers to how Sweden and France have an active language policy, and how Denmark is getting it. At the same time, he claims that there is little happening in Norway. He reminds us that bookmakers and newcomers now have to be side by side with a survival strategy for Norwegian languages. The center party thinks he's right. We would like to stress that there are many good contributions to this in the message. The majority have followed up, for example: with observations that the target promise must be clarified and that a stable and long-term economic basis must be ensured by the Nynorsk media centre. The Labour Party, SV and the Center Party have, through constructive cooperation, carried out more clarifications that I believe the Council of State is deeply satisfied with and agree with, for example. that English must not compete with Norwegian as a language of higher education, that new Norwegian as an administrative language must be strengthened as a part of linguistic equality, and a concrete proposal for a purchasing system for a new Norwegian sacprose. I want to challenge the Council of State on three points. First, what progress does the Council of State see when it comes to a web-based neo-neural nuclei? I would like to remind you of a statement from the Landslag für Nynnorskkommunar – i.e. 100 municipalities in this country – that says something that is actually to be perceived as an emergency call. They so strongly underline the need for this. They probably think of both the ten-year-olds and their needs for relevant material in the new Norwegian language and of all the teachers who still have to feed their students with bookkeeping materials where they would have had new Norwegian language, not to mention case handlers and residents of a new municipality. Secondly, how will the Council of State strengthen its own procurement policy? Currently, software is being run in newnorm. Could it be willing to demand new Norwegian software on the relevant areas of the country? The third relates to recruitment in relation to linguistic equalisation. Training is important both in neo-Norwegian and book goals. Does the State Council have a strategy to overestimate the Ministry of Education to strengthen and not weaken secondary education?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-01.ana.ud1667e1343	I note that in much of the debate here today, and also through the press and the media, it has been produced as that the Progress Party uses the cultural message to highlight a foreign-cultural-enemy view. That makes me sad. Because it would be interesting to make a quality assurance about which batch has the most transparency in meeting other impulses. It could also be interesting to get quality assurance who is most open to meeting other cultures, and by showing his true human vision. So instead of doing what the Progress Party, which is honest and honest, spends other great resources attacking the Advance Party and hiding its own agenda. Being open to other impulses doesn't necessarily mean highlighting some cultures through political action. That is something on which the Group of the European People's Party is firmly committed and on which we shall stand. The party of progress is also obliged by its ideology and program, which gives the faith and respect for the individual to take care of his own peculiarity, and the right to decide his own life, without the politicians in this house going into and conducting it. That's what the Progress Party insists on. The Progress Party is also obliged through its ideology and programme to build its political decisions on the Norwegian Constitution, on Norwegian and Western tradition, and to protect cultural heritage. It shouldn't be surprising for anyone in this room. Nor should anyone in this Chamber be surprised that it is very important for the Progress Party to avoid discrimination against people based on race, sex, religion and ethnic origin. There could be quota between sex, it could be using extra resources because of ethnic origin, it could be using extra resources because you have a different religious belief. We refuse to give priority to the way the majority in this Chamber does, because it will in the long run create conflicts. The Progress Party will not do that. Now I have to sign for a new three-minute post, because really I should be talking about Rock City Namsos.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-01.ana.ud1667e1354	The President would say that it would be completely inappropriate to extend today's meeting beyond noon. 15th We have several issues to deal with, and the President will not put any restrictions on the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-01.ana.ud1667e1357	It is asked whether the President is able to control the Storting so strictly that the meeting will not be extended. At least I'm not going to put myself into it. In the introduction, I would like to say that I think this has been a very nice debate. It's very nice that so many people are on him, and very nice that the gallery in part has our whole time, and that the press release has been full for a while at least – if he's not right now. That's good. Because it shows that many people are concerned about cultural policy. There's one thing we're good at here in the hall, and that's giving each other characteristics, especially negative characteristics, that's something I've noticed in this debate as well. We have an opposition – or they call themselves an opposition – of the Workers' Party, the Center Party and the SV, but there is a difference between these three parties, because the Centre Party and the SV can actually point to some positive things, both in the Government's policy and in the Cultural Notice, but I can't find that again at the Workers' Party. I had hoped that they could also be a little more nuanced than commenting on the good suggestions and the efforts that were in spite of everything. I want to give tribute to the Center Party and SV to be open to it. So there are some questions I'm going to try to answer – at least some of them. When it comes to government control and support for the construction of local church buildings, it is the responsibility of the municipalities. I've been in dialogue with people in Alta City who really want help. I feel that in the church sector, we have an unlikely number of unfinished tasks in relation to caring for the building we have – which is also the municipality’s responsibility – that I feel much more pressure on. And then we'll see what we get in the long term, but at least it's not at the top of my block. In the case of the Alta Mountain Art Centre, there must be cooperation between the Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of Culture in order to realise it. I've been up there. They have great plans. One of our challenges is that there are a lot of good plans here in the cultural lift of the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party. I feel first and foremost obliged to what is in the message, and what is in the setting is multiple, and then all the other good suggestions must come in turn and in order, as we can find the means for it. I'm assuming we need a couple of years. When it concerns the library sector, which Magnar Lund Bergo was in, we're going to start a full review of it in a short time. We're looking at the same challenges as the representative mentioned. Yes, the National Library will be demanding in the coming years, because we have new buildings there, and we have renovations of the building and those things. Obviously, it will require extra funds. But we also have a full review of the entire library sector, and then we will be able to answer some of the good issues raised by the representative. Otherwise, we have just made proposals in relation to the library laws that take care of this with the fact that it will be available in all municipalities. When it comes to Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa, I encourage her to look up the cultural message on page 193. Here you can find answers to many questions. Of course, I agree with many of the comments that come from the opposition. It's not going on. Many of them are also in the message. Then we're a few, and then we don't have to repeat a part of what's already in the message.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-01.ana.ud1667e1378	When the enlarged concept of culture came, there was a tense development in the cultural debate. I have not heard too much about it today and in the debate that has been taking place. As a health and social politician here in the house, I have to say that cultural policy is both welfare policy and prevention policy in a broad and broader sense. We should also bear that in mind when it comes to the willingness to prioritise, to have a preventive society rather than to have a repairing society. Then I also have to get into some local issues and relationships. First of all, I am pleased that the committee is now saying that we should follow up the development of a tater museum at the Glomdal Museum. But I want to point out that there really should have been more resources spent on this earlier. The matter is overdue, and there should have been more resources at first, so that you had a faster start and a faster implementation. But at least it's gratifying that there's an overall committee that now says this is important for understanding our own history and social development. So a visit to the Norwegian Forest Finnish Museum, which is planned in the municipality of Grue. There are, among other things: representatives of the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs and the municipality were in a group that said that this should be established at the municipality of Svullrya in Grue. We know that there are at least eight counties and 40 municipalities that have material in the history and culture of forest fins, and then it's wrong that one municipality or one state should take this burden alone and establish such a museum, so I hope that it will find its solution even within the state framework. It's a very bad thing that the Elverum party games don't get a connection in this round either, so it could be a node institution. A right-wing representative said earlier in the debate today that it was no coincidence that Norway had symphony orchestras at the top of the world, because it was put on quality. Yeah, well, then you should've bet on the Elverum party games, too. The unique cooperation with the youth symphonyists is precisely providing recruitment and quality work that is important for the development of good symphony. This festival is a very large cultural event in the inner eastern region, and there are not too many of them. So I think that this node institution should have been in place in connection with the message, such as. The center part goes into it. Then I am glad that the Pröysenhuset is in place, and that annual government appropriations will be provided here within the museum grant schemes. Finally, I would like to address the importance of the district museums. There are decentralised museum activities that preserve building mass, equipment and traditions in both cultural and working life, and these district museums are culturally preserving arenas that create interest and knowledge and provide help and guidance, which in turn means cultural activity and awareness across the country. Therefore, these must be given more resources.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-01.ana.ud1667e1395	Voluntary cultural life is important in many communities, and many local meetings take place just around these activities. It's choir, it's corps, it's local theater groups, drama groups, environmental groups -- it's a bubbly activity, with a lot of things happening. Some have thought that there are too few words about volunteering in the message. Then I have to remind you that it was the Bondevik I government that presented a voluntary message of its own, where it says many and good words, and that was also a heartchild of the Christian People's Party. In addition, it is the Christian People's Party that, in the current government, has fought through the tax credit scheme for gifts to non-governmental organisations, which have been very important to very many. We agree that the umbrella organisations will continue to distribute to the local partners after entering the Rogaland research reports. But I would like to stress that the trend that the umbrella organisations presented to us at the hearing in the committee, that they were now better placed to distribute to non-organised groups and teams, must continue, once these funds are still available. When it comes to bringing together the Free Fund funds in one department, we will vote against it, because we believe that in principle it belongs to the domain of the Government to determine where the different accounts for the different activities are to be located.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-01.ana.ud1667e1406	To the representative Knudsen: the right takes a strong distance from both sexual mutilation and female repression. But here the representative Mr Knudsen mixes the cards, because that is not what we are going to deal with today. Today, we are going to deal with the communication of culture and how the Norwegian culture and diversity of other cultures in Norway can be preserved and made visible. I think it's a little unfortunate that the representative Knudsen is trying to make this a debate on sexual mutilation and oppression. For the right, it is important to note that, in an increasingly open international and global society, it is important that the cultural sector exploits the opportunities and addresses the challenges it presents. Norwegian cultural policy must also take into account an inclusive perspective that allows for a diversity of votes. This was also something the Minister of Culture had in mind in his main contribution. I am pleased that the Progress Party is now alone in its exclusive cultural policy perspective.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-01.ana.ud1667e1414	A little comment on the previous speaker: I guess it's dramatic to say that the Progress Party is alone, with the upswing we have. We represent a large proportion of Norway's population, but it looks like it's falling apart in this room. That's a little sad. It also has something to do with cultural understanding and human vision. In the case of Rock City Namsos, it's sad that it's going to be postponed again, especially because this hall and also the previous magnification actually had time and opportunity to re-make the decision on this project. As early as 1999, comments and proposals from a majority were submitted in this Chamber. The fact that SV does not recognise it in a way, and forces it through a postponement, I think it is very sad. This project, which represents coordination and cooperation between two cities and two states on a good project, should have fallen into good soil in this hall. It can testify – without going back to the second debate – that there is some form of fear of thunder at this distance from Rock City in Trondheim and Namsos. It might be that the impact of Stiklestad is still in the back of some people's heads, and that we're thundering are afraid in that way. But there is no doubt that within rock and popular music, the troth layers have gone in front and been in front in many areas. When the municipality of Namso has a project that is so wonderfully implemented, and it has also been approved by a settlement from Trondheim and from Sør-Trøndelag County to get it done, it only makes me even more sad. Now if there's going to be a fight between different cities and single payment representatives here on the house to prioritize their own territory, it's even more sad, because then the whole project is finally powdered. Then it doesn't get the quality that we all necessarily want to get on a project like this. If it is possible ever to get some individual representatives to stand on the barricades for a good project and for the trombone coat, I would recommend to SV's representatives to at least try to change their mind in the last round.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-01.ana.ud1667e1425	The President is not so concerned about the results of the Battle of Stiklestad. It was probably hardly the trounds that were the worst.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-01.ana.ud1667e1428	I understand that the Council of State cannot answer all the questions it receives in three minutes. I have to say that I have a zero understanding that I am being referred to page 193 and the following pages of my questions. Let me underline: there are a lot of good things on these pages, but it's because of what's not there, that I'm asking these three questions. Firstly, in addition to the fact that the need for an online neo-synthetic icon has been underlined by many other bodies over a long period of time, the Council of State itself has referred to the newcomers, who have asked for further clarification here. And when I then ask about her progress plan in relation to supporting this, it is because it says nothing about it. Will she, for example, return with a progress plan in the 2005 budget? This is a project that hastens a better plan than being covered by many good words. Here one has to go to action. Secondly, when it applies to the state's own procurement policy, I asked if it would require software to be provided in a novel language and bookkeeping language. I know that there will be a particularly important contribution to bringing up the production of new Norwegian software. So on page 195, she has said something in the sense that she is considering other appropriate mechanisms, or as it says here, 'there are currently no mechanisms to achieve this'. So she doesn't want to make demands, but she wants to do something else. And there I can be more specific about my follow-up question: What other sensible tool is it that the Council of State sees itself leading to than making demands? Thirdly, on the side objective: I am fully aware that the secondary education is not the responsibility of the Minister of Culture. But when it comes to recruitment, compared to the fact that as many people as possible can read and write both languages, both book goals and new ones, in order to understand each other, it is important to have a side-by-side education. So this is going to be equal to this. It looks as if the Ministry of Education has a lack of understanding of the value of the secondary education. Therefore, my question is: will the Minister of Culture contribute to a greater understanding of the Ministry of Education, so that one can gain strength and not waver in the teaching of parallel objectives?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-01.ana.ud1667e1439	I'm afraid the representative Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa just like us others have to wait a long time for the binding action plans for the fine words. I record that the Council of State is a little hurt because she has not received the honor and good word from the biggest party in Storting. I think she's going to worry more about the good things that are not very close to Culture-Norway either. We must have a completely different commitment to art and culture before the good things come from both us and Culture-Norway. The Council of State describes that in her message she actually added up to a bet that totaled NOK 1 billion. Yes, then it is alarming that it is actually stated in the notice that one has not specified how much the bet should be. I think you're doing what you call claws in Joker Nord. One sums up a bet that is described in the message, but at the same time forgets that a good part of the bets we have today are phased out in the same time period. Maybe we should bet on a concert hall in Stavanger, but at the same time, the Hålogaland Theatre is being phased out, because it's being completed. It's not about whether the total bet in her cultural message is DKK 1 billion; the question is: Do we want to keep the level of bet on a higher level? That's what the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party have committed themselves to. What I think is nice is two things. One is that one cannot go into concrete terms and say that one is in favour of the ambitions we have for cultural schools, for film betting, for strengthening purchasing systems, etc. It is not that this – which the Council of State apparently also has a lot of things to do – came to a delivery meeting. Of course, this has been in the setting. You have had full opportunity both in the government parties and certainly also in the department, I know the form of work right, to decide on it. I don't think that's so strange, because it's a clear signal that you don't want to be part of the real bets. The second thing I find strange is that when the Minister of Culture meets at budgetary conferences, the Minister of Defence comes to the table with a major defence plan, which comes to the Minister of Transport and can hit the table with a transport plan, and the Minister of Research has a research plan. Then we offer the Council of State to make a commitment to culture – it's just her own party that's going to make a decision here in the Chamber – so that at the government conferences she can say: Yes, but the Stortinget has adopted a plan for stepping up culture. I remember very well the first discussions we had about the cultural message in our government. Then Ellen Horn was very eager to get that kind of commitment, so that she could give culture a boost. But I note: No, not Valgerd Svarstad Haugland, she prefers to be without that kind of commitment.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-01.ana.ud1667e1450	Ulf Erik Knudsen has had the word twice and gets the word to a short comment, limited to 1 minute – it's almost a complete post.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-01.ana.ud1667e1453	I register that according to the representative Rafiq I am both intolerant and exclusive. Then I do not quite understand the comment of the Right and Christian People's Party, as Karin S. Woldseth has quoted earlier today: ‘For our country, this will mean a reinforced effort to maintain a cultural home path with sufficient characteristics to define it as Norwegian in the long term.’ And on the other hand, ‘In this context, the preservation of our own cultural heritage becomes the first self-evident task.’ The packaging into cotton is the exact same starting point as the Advance Party has taken. I cannot understand how the Right believes that this is significantly different from the lead view of the Advance Party. The only difference I can see is that we've taken some practical consequences of what we've put in as a primary view.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-01.ana.ud1667e1468	First of all, a challenge that I got a little bit earlier in the debate. It goes on regional and municipal cultural constructions. There are multiple comments and minority comments here. I just want to stress that what we're adding up from the Government's side, and getting multiples for, doesn't mean that the national cultural communities are going to go over these schemes. This means money for the regional and municipal buildings, which are distributed through the nation – via the state and through the county. We give great freedom to states to distribute the money in another way, without the rigid system that we've had up to today. If they want to give more money to municipal buildings than they do today, there's of course a possibility, just so it's said. It shall not go to national cultural buildings, the same as if some believed it. Then I regret that in the reply I said that the proposal was submitted at the delivery meeting. What I've been given the impression – but it's not my table – is that many of the proposals were put in at the last minute, so that one didn't get enough time to evaluate the economic impact of some of the proposals. I think that's right. Then I have also been asked questions in relation to the progress plans on some of the things in the message. What is the procedure is that today the message will be attached, and then we will sit down and evaluate the progress plans in relation to the different decisions that will be taken, and the different connections we have received. There are a lot of different areas of activity here, and we've said it's going to go over ten years. So I also said in my post – Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa was not in the room and heard it – that we have to take the most important thing first, and then we have to put forward plans in relation to it. I must be allowed to come back to that. I don't have clear progress plans on all the areas today. When it comes to the news, it's a language that's close to my heart. I want to refute that the Minister of Education is not busy with it. What was in the message that was sent yesterday is a strengthening of the new search. It's the creation of a centre of expertise, and it's better education to make students more happy in their new search than they are today – or the side goal that we're saying, but we're talking about something new, at least we know that. Good neonatal education is not dependent on exams, but it depends on mandatory instruction in both written and oral, and it is established, plus many good measures to improve new or secondary education. I agree with Kristin Clement. There's no such thing as a mess there. So the representative described how they probably had it at their government conferences. Yes, there are many ministers who come up with action plans that are adopted. And usually when you put forward a proposal for a plan of action here in Stortinget, it gets a little bit of added by the opposition, and then we almost never manage to implement it in time. A lot of them are delayed, and a lot of them are delayed for years. No matter what government proposes, and whatever size it takes, that's the reality. I can promise the Storting one thing, that I have received support in Stortinget today to fight for more money for culture. I've got what I need, to go to the government budget conference and say that culture needs more money, and I'm very happy about that. So I didn't get any more time.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-01.ana.ud1667e1483	No, no, no. Then the council had to draw on the list of speakers one more time.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-01.ana.ud1667e1486	Is that what the president's asking for?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-01.ana.ud1667e1491	There was no call for that. Olemic Thommessen is the most recently recorded speaker, and he is the case rapporteur, so it is probably an appropriate rounding – if the President dares to suggest it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-01.ana.ud1667e1496	I think I have some sense of fatigue in relation to this fantastic debate that has been. There has been a brilliant debate, which is good for cultural life in the years to come. An ambitious notification will be adopted, and the opposition – at least on the left-hand side – has fallen victim to the government parties in order to signal the willingness to pay and further bets in the coming years. This promises exciting for the future. I'm not going to continue any polemics with the Progress Party, but I just want to say that a good advice to get help out of what I think they've been to today would be to sit down and think that culture is not a static concept – maybe it would help a little. I thank you for a great deal of excitement from many of the representatives, from many committees. It is very interesting to note that culture is involved in so many disciplines. It is very promising that we have had a good visit to the gallery, and I also think it is very promising that we have had a wide range of contacts with organisations around us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-01.ana.ud1667e1510	I'm sorry, President, but there's one thing I'm forced to say. Trond Giske said in his post that the Labour Party was not interested in the big message – and I understood that. But then he also said that cultural life didn't have our enthusiasm. That's wrong. I've got a lot of good words from cultural life for this cultural message, both directly to me and through publishers who haven't been able to get pressurized in the newspapers, because there's the criticism that comes up. It has been very encouraging that in many environments in cultural life they have enjoyed the message. That's why we have a lot of different environments to play with when it's going to be implemented.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-01.ana.ud1667e1517	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 2428]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-01.ana.ud1667e1533	I don't think there's any reason to fear that this debate will be as long as the previous one. But a little bit of orientation might be in its place. MODINIS is a key instrument in the implementation of the EU Lisbon Strategy to make Europe innovative and competitive. MODINIS is a programme for monitoring the eEurope Action Plan and disseminating good practice and improving network and information security, and it is a continuation of the previous programme, PROMISE. Participation in the Programme requires budgetary decisions over three years, and it is necessary in accordance with the Constitution with the consent of the Grand Duchy. Annual costs over the period 2003–2005 will amount to about 4.4 million. kr per. years. Funds for 2003 were earmarked for the 2003 budget of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade, and funds for 2004 were allocated to the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade for 2004. Otherwise, this recommendation was made by a group committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-01.ana.ud1667e1546	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2430]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-01.ana.ud1667e1562	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of response be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Once again, the President will draw attention to the fact that, in the interests of other activities in the house, it is not appropriate to extend today's meeting with something in particular more than 5 minutes, so that you are aware of it. Then it is a pleasure to give the floor to the rapporteur, Odd Roger Enoxen – 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-01.ana.ud1667e1575	It's going to be okay. It is relatively unusual for a decision in Stortinget to be amended after such a short period of time, in particular because the operating system introduced before Christmas, for vessels less than 28 metres, is a testing scheme. The fact that that decision was amended already in March reflects the fact that the Storting cannot accept the unfair discrimination that has occurred between those who have the opportunity to participate in the operating scheme and those who are not allowed to participate in it. It is well known that there were different attitudes to the operating system as such when the Stortinge dealt with this in the harvest. Where appropriate, the different batches shall be provided with an answer. But it's a unanimous committee behind today's vote, which means that the testing system is extended to the whole country, including those who have already started fishing on a quota. The decision also implies that the extension should be implemented immediately. And I both hope and assume that the Minister for Fisheries has started preparing that work. It has been known over quite a long time that there will be a majority for the proposal that has been in Stortingen, and we have already lost a lot of time. Many people are waiting for this to come into place, and I hope that the work has come so far that it is possible to promote applications for participation in the operating system for those who still have the opportunity to do so. In addition, the Committee has stated that the decision now being taken to allow those who have already started fishing on a quota only to participate in the scheme of operations in 2004 and that, in recent years, if the scheme is to continue, they will revert to the original scheme, where no quota is to be fished. A number of objections have been raised to the operating arrangements, including in the replies received from the Committee from the Minister for Fisheries, which raise objections such as: increased fishing pressure, passive quotas will be put into service and it will prevent structuring. In addition, it has been suggested that the current enlargement will involve considerable administrative resources in the handling of applications, in particular because it is possible to participate in the operational arrangements for those who have started fishing. These objections are, to a large extent, real. The first objections have been to the operating arrangements as such and not to the current extension and have been objections to which part of the lots had already been treated last year. I assume that these objections will be carefully assessed in the evaluation of the scheme, which the Stortinge has also intended to be presented. The objection to the extension of the scheme is, of course, real. It will require significant administrative resources in the Executive Board dealing with the applications. But the Committee has therefore chosen to make it secondary to non-discrimination between fishermen who are largely in the same situation. To make my point that the morning meeting will not be extended, I will, in the end, only recommend the unanimous setting for Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-01.ana.ud1667e1596	As the only fisherman in this room today, I think it is very good to have the opportunity to say a few words about this matter, which at least many in the industry perceive as important, also in principle. Let me first congratulate both the Stortinget and the Business Committee on the fact that a number of political leaders have been left behind and a unanimous position has been put forward. I have wanted to congratulate both the SV and the Central Party in particular, but I will not. What has happened in this case shows that it is useful to work politically in Stortinget. The reason why this case comes up now, that it is going to happen, of course, is because of pressure from both political and professional teams. I have been made aware that I am meeting here today as a wholesaler, and then from Troms – that was a clarification on my part – and not as a representative of the Norwegian Fiskerlag. And I'm very aware of that and very conscious of that. What is also involved in this matter is profitability in industry and efficiency — opportunities for efficiency improvement. There have been many tough debates in industry and in political Norway about the fishing industry and how it should look, what it should be like, what it should be like and what interests it should take. Consultation opinions on the Ministry of Fisheries consultation note of 7 August 2002, which was the basis of which St.meld. No 20 for 2002–03 was far from consistent, even in the case of the proposed operational arrangements. I am not aware of the mood in the nutrition committee during the examination of St.meld. No 20, but the comments are at least marked by different views on, among other things. the operational arrangements. The traditional fishing industry has, as I said, been characterised by strong debate for decades. There has been an allocation of quotas between groups and between fishermen, between who is to be fished, and between parts of the country. And it should be allowed to have political debate and political disagreement. But I have a little prayer to the Stortinget and to those who sit with a lot of power: don't forget that there are some who are going to live by fishing! There are people who must have faith in investing, and they must also have faith in being able to return their resources. A fishing boat is a farm, whether it is the jack with one man or the factory trawler with a dozen men on board. The owner/shipper shall be able to offer his crew an attractive, modern and secure job, with opportunities for a competitive income in relation to other industries with which he competes. The oil industry is a very concrete example. Everyone must be able to have a hope of income for themselves and theirs, and when I say hope, it is because the industry is of course such that we do not have a guaranteed income. And even if fishermen are accustomed to the natural uncertainty of the industry, it must be possible to demand that other framework conditions are predictable and stable. The decision today is such a signal. The operating arrangements are temporary and therefore no lasting contribution to increasing the profitability of those concerned. And I'm assuming that you come back to this after today, and solve it at a later date. I have congratulated the Stortinget and the Business Committee. I see no need to congratulate the Council of State on his handling of this matter. That's on the contrary all reason to be very critical of his treatment of it, and I am. I still want to just limit myself to saying that there's been a lot of clarity in the Storting, at least from December last year, that there's a majority to do what you're doing today. The councils have not taken the signal, and it has forced the Stortinge to bring him in here and instruct him through a decision. It's taken time, and it's created problems for them. I think that should have been unnecessary. Today, the size of the stock is quite clear, a system to apply to the whole country should be established, even when fishing on a quota has begun. And you're going to do it immediately. I therefore assume that the Council of State loyally follows up the decision, and does not address any further issues of a regulatory nature. Finally, ‘freedom’ and ‘free fishing’ are also political. I think we should forget about it. Those who know how Norway and Norwegian quotas are divided know that they are over. We have to relate to the fact that the resources are like this, and we're going to live with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-01.ana.ud1667e1619	I feel that this matter fits very well at the entrance to the Passover, a little pinched in between after fifty cultural posts. Just before the gong hits, I think that the message in the mountain sweat rule ‘It’s no shame to turn around’ fits very well in this case here. For this is a matter how many have chosen to turn around, after you have managed to draw three months' experience out of a matter that should have a full five-year duration. Then it's actually the mountain-wet rule that's been applied. It could, of course, at a time like this, be tempting to say, what did we say? But there will be no contribution to what the previous speaker had to say, thinking about what can contribute to profitability, optimism and belief in the future of the coastal fleet. This is a contribution that goes in the right direction. I think the rapporteur has presented the Committee's position in an excellent manner. Let me just add that I think in the name of justice that it should not be undisputed that we should not congratulate the Council of State on this matter. For it is one who has really taken account of the signals from the industry and followed them up in practice, that is actually the Minister for Fisheries. We all know that the original proposal meant that the whole country should be within this model, which is to exchange quotas between two vessels, possibly vessels having access to participate in the same fisheries, which can cooperate on the possibility of specialising operations to increase profitability, etc. But the council took into account the hearing opinions, he took into account that the Storting nuanced the picture, and instead that it was just going to apply to Finnmark, he added to a few extra states. Now we have seen that this gives different competition – better conditions for someone who is part of the scheme, compared to others who did not have the opportunity to participate. I believe that the Committee has made it very clear that the scheme will also apply when fishing on a quota has started, but only as a one-off event this year. I also believe that the whole committee agrees that this leads to increased control, increased burden on the control system, and actually also opens up the possibility of increased fishing pressure, especially within the smaller part of the coastal fleet. But we're doing this with open eyes. And it'll be a one-time event, it won't open up for this in the coming years. Of course, this will also lead to the possibility of giving the evaluation that the Council of State gave so much attention to in the preliminary rounds, not being the same at this round here. But now we're getting what was really the starting point for the hearing opinions. I think that will be a strength for the whole coastal fishing industry. Then it could be tempting on another occasion to grasp all the words and expressions that were mentioned during the election campaign, about the proposed arrangements. But I'm sure we'll have another opportunity to grasp that.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-01.ana.ud1667e1632	Now, if you do it with 3 minutes each, you're going to be done with 3 minutes. 15 – the president just mentions it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-01.ana.ud1667e1635	I'll try to contribute to it. It could be tempting to say – and I do, too, I – welcome after, to everyone like one, like that. Had the Stortinget listened to the Progress Party last June, when we dealt with the structural message, it would not have been necessary to deal with this matter here today. Because we wanted, and we suggested that we have operational arrangements for the whole country. It is true, as Ivar Kristiansen said, that it was also the attitude of the Council of State when one sent this matter out to the audience. But then he listens to the nutrition. The paradox may be that there are Northland Fisheries Teams, which were most strongly opposed to this operating system, which are now calling out the highest and will have the scheme. So here's a lot of people who have turned around, and there's a lot of people who have taken the mountain sweat rule to help turn around in this case. We're not going to push this too far. We've made a decision. I understand that the Council of State wanted us to make a decision in Stortinget, as a decision was made on another scheme. It is clear that the Stortninget then makes a new decision, even if the Council of State, based on the statements that have come, might have done something. But I see the cleanliness in it. Then, as Ivar Kristiansen was also in the house, we get to hope and bet that it will be tidy from next year, if this system is to continue, and that we get a thorough evaluation that the Storting will also be overhauled afterwards. By that I say thank you.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-01.ana.ud1667e1646	I think that the opportunity to raise the debate a few moments is right. But I'm going to leave it and rather follow the tone that the case-speaker suggested for this debate. A little bit of the reason is that I know that the business operators know very well what is the truth about the treatment of this case. I therefore have no need to speak for the Storting Protocol, except to say that the reason why SV is involved in extending this scheme is that the quota regime should be the same for the whole country. In my opinion, there were three reasonable positions during the treatment of St.melding by the Storting. No 20 for 2002-2003. Of course, that was primarily SV's position. It was the position of the second Progress Party, which was to have operational arrangements for the whole country, and so far it was also the position of the Centre Party, which was that one would try this, but only in one state. The consequences of trying this in half Fisheries Norway think I was terribly unfair. We notice very quickly, at least in our party, the reactions from the rest of Fisheries Norway, mainly Nordland and More and Romesdal, which pointed out that this would be terribly misguided. It is simply from this point of view that we are in favour of extending the system that we argued in principle against when the Stortinget dealt with the structural message, when unfortunately we lost the political struggle for the structuring of the Norwegian fishing industry, at least for this large-scale period. I want to make it clear that our connection to an extension of the system is not a connection to the system itself. And unlike the Progress Party, and when it's what I've recorded that the Council of State argued, with which I can't understand: when the Nordic fishermen, who argued in principle against the scheme, later say that once one has lost, once one has introduced this system, it should be equal to everyone, I have a lot of understanding for the Nordic fishermen. With that, I hope that I have not drawn up the temperature in the debate, but only clarified what is SV's position around this.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-01.ana.ud1667e1661	The President can't understand that someone would have to be drawn out of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-01.ana.ud1667e1664	The ring is over; now the operational arrangements are to be put in place throughout the country, as the Minister for Fisheries suggested when the coastal fishing fleet structural arrangements were out for listening, and not just for three pilot states, as they are today. So the time of the wonder is not over. The parties that opposed the structural arrangements are now working to have the operational arrangements put in place throughout the country. In the industry, this is going to be positive, because it's going to help make it more profitable. It is gratifying that it is desired by the fisheries organisations themselves, despite their strong opponents — at least in part of the state — at the time of the introduction of such a scheme. I believe that the way in which the Labour Party referred to the Minister for Fisheries, who was just the one who went in the breeze and fought to make the system that is in place today, is a little strange. We in the Christian People's Party thought that it was a reasonable starting point that there was one state that would be a test party for the operating order. This seemed justifiable, because we would then be able to measure the way in which the operating arrangements broke out and influence the structure. At the same time, we were skeptical of the system itself, because an operating system does not reduce fishing capacity, rather the opposite. At the same time, however, we assumed that the scheme would make it more efficient and allow for better use of the local variation in the availability of fish. As a result, the operational arrangements will contribute positively to the fishing industry, while building up in a more efficient and profitable way. Wages and salaries, as everyone knows, are one of the most important objectives of the operational reform. However, after all this has been said, we are happy today that we have a system that can benefit fishermen and vessels throughout the country. At the same time, it is important to clarify what challenges this leads to in relation to quota control, especially when fishing on an quota has already begun. We still think it is good that there should be equal treatment for nutritionists, and that all of them should receive the most equal treatment possible. We support the proposal and look forward to the evaluation of the operational arrangements.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-01.ana.ud1667e1675	I'm not hiding that I think this is a big day, and I'm very pleased that a total accumulation, now also with the support of the SV, the Center Party and the Workers' Party, wants to introduce these coastal fleet arrangements throughout the country. In my opinion, there is nothing less than a political breakthrough in the government's policy of increasing profitability through the structuring of the coastal fleet. When, after three months of experience, we see that fishermen strongly want to make use of these schemes, and that those who – with all possible respect – have opposed the schemes with beaks and claws, have now changed their perception, I think it is positive. And I want to give commendation both to SV and to the Center Party, which now does not add prestige to this, but goes in order for us to introduce it for the whole country. Because it is true, as it has been claimed, that this was the original proposal of the undersigned. And I think the reasons given by the rapporteur and by Mr Elvik for the changed position are respectable, and I take note of that. Then we might rather say that the historical rewriting that the representative of the Workers' Party tried to contribute to, perhaps is more appropriate to remind you that you are sitting in a glass house in this particular case. I just want to remind you that when we just chose to suggest Finnmark, it was based on the hearing opinions and the political pressure that was, and I tried to correct it. Then the opinions in Stortinget changed, and I wanted the Stortinget to give the signal that you are giving today, and we are going to follow it in a neat manner. That means that in a short time we're going to have this in place. But at the same time, I would like to remind you that the geographical unfairness that the rapporteur pointed out was precisely the result of the Stortinget's taking the decision they made. And it's kind of unreasonable that it should be the way we've followed up the Storting's decision. After 12 years in Stortinget, I am very responsive to the signals and decisions that are coming. And I'm listening not only to the decisions, but also to the signals. So it is that I also feel a strong need to remember another controversial concept, namely transferable allowances. The operating scheme is a significant step towards tradable allowances. I want to underline it. And now that we're opening up for this year to convert parts of allowances, it's a very long step towards tradable allowances. But all these things must be addressed in the evaluation that is to come. So to the question of progress. From today on, applications can be submitted, and we will start processing them immediately. Then it is that the regulation has been adopted by the Royal Resolution, and we must consult the Council of State with it. It will be dealt with by the First Council of States, i.e. not tomorrow, but in the First Council after Easter. But it will not be possible for anyone to start fishing in the Easter stop, so this is now going to go automatically. And regional offices are well prepared to deal with this on an ongoing basis.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-01.ana.ud1667e1691	Did Knut ask Werner Hansen for the word to line or to post?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-01.ana.ud1667e1694	I asked for the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-01.ana.ud1667e1699	So it's going to be a string change. Are many people going to ask for the word to line up? It doesn't seem to be. Then we can start calling voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-01.ana.ud1667e1704	I'm not going to be a meeting plague. I'll be very short. But when the Council of State indicates fairly clearly that I am rewriting my history and sitting in a glass house, I just want to say – you can go through my post afterwards and study what I said – that I was very clear that I was not representing the industry here. What I based my post on was what I've heard from people who have tried to work out a solution in this case. Both verbally and in letters to the Council of State have been tried to find a solution without going through a Document No. Eight proposals. And that's what I reserve the right to say in Stortinget, without being accused of promoting the interests of the Fish Company.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-01.ana.ud1667e1711	As the Council of State, and as a former representative of big business, I have not seen anyone need to go to the pulpit to distinguish roles. Here I perceive every spokesman as a big representative and not as a spokesman for individual interest groups, and I could not have imagined that my post would be perceived as such. I see the representative Hansen as spokesman for the Workers' Party, and I refer to the Workers' Party's discussion and contributions to the debate before the matter came to Stortinget, and to the treatment the case has had here in Stortinget. My reference went to the Workers' Party, and when the representative on behalf of the Workers' Party criticises the Council of State, I remind you that you might want to look around, you would see that there were only glass walls around you.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-01.ana.ud1667e1718	I must admit that I was a little surprised at the beginning of the Minister of Fisheries' posts. If the decision taken today is a breakthrough for the Government's fisheries policy, the government could have obtained a majority in favour of this as early as last spring with the votes of the Progress Party, which was already in force at the time for the scheme to apply throughout the country. It was not the government parties, because the government proposed that this should be introduced into one state, and that was supported only by the Central Party. When the Central Party supported that proposal, it was because we perceived it as a positive favoring of Finnmark states, a favoring that we actually wanted, and that I think the whole industry could have lived with. When half of Fisheries Norway was covered by this, it is no wonder that those who did not become part of the scheme react like, among other things. Nordland has done. But leave it. Now it's already calling voting. What I just want to challenge the Minister of Fisheries to say something about, which he so far concluded with in his post, is the following: there will be no more cuttings in the sea now. Fishermen may start submitting applications for participation in the operational arrangements and will be dealt with on an ongoing basis when Easter is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-01.ana.ud1667e1725	As the representatives hear, we call voting at the same time as the debate is taking place. I expect you to respect the fact that there is a debate going on and not talking. It's just the state council that can now talk, for 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-01.ana.ud1667e1728	I think that with the impact of the Government on the operating arrangements and structural measures in the coastal fleet, it is reasonable that clocks are ringing! Secondly, I recall that there was a significant debate on the operating arrangements and structural measures in the industry, and opinions in the industry were very divided. That is why I chose to listen to the industry and only propose one state as a test scheme, also because the Fiskarlage in Finnmark and Finnmark County asked to be a test team. So I've tried to take care of and balance what's happening in the Storting, and what's happening out in the industry. When the Stortinget then opened to try in several states, we opened up for it, and today we implement it for the whole country. I think that's good, and then maybe we'll try to do this together in the best possible way. We'll start dealing with the directorate as soon as the president has let the club fall. They are sitting and waiting for any applications.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-01.ana.ud1667e1739	The next line is from Åsa Elvik. I am aware that the Socialist Left Party is larger than the Centre Party – but Odd Roger Enoksen is now the case rapporteur.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-01.ana.ud1667e1744	If we were faster too, it might have helped! I only need to say a few words, when the Council of State is so busy that this is a big day for the Government. Of course, it's a big day for SV when we get commended by the Minister for Fisheries, but I still have a question about the extension of what the representative Odd Roger Enoksen asks about. If this is such a big day for the Minister for Fisheries, why didn't the Minister for Fisheries do it himself? Why didn't the Minister for Fisheries take the initiative himself, when he must have realized that he would have had a plurality in Stortinget? Why did he have to wait for us to take this initiative?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-01.ana.ud1667e1751	If the representative Elvik and SV think there are big days when they get commended by the Minister for Fisheries, they will often get it — if they take a wise stand that is in line with what the Government had originally proposed. Secondly, the reason, as I tried to explain, and as several of the speakers have made known, is that I have tried to listen to the decision of the Stortinge and what are the leaders of the Stortinge, and try them out in several states. The representative Elvik will be aware that I said to the members of the Committee early in January that I am prepared to do this if the Stortinget so wishes. We agreed that a document No. 8 proposals would be the right form and the easiest way to do it. There we are today, and now I think we should jointly have this implemented, for the benefit of the profitability of the coastal fleet.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-01.ana.ud1667e1761	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3, and we keep calling voting. [[Fotation, see page 2430]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-01.ana.ud1667e1769	We then go to voting in case No. 1-3 on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-01.ana.ud1667e1776	During the debate, 23 proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, by Trond Giske, on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Progress Party and the Centre Party, 2-14, by Mr Trond Giske, on behalf of the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, proposal No. 15, by Karin S. Woldseth, on behalf of the Progress Party and the Central Party, 16-19, by Karin S. Woldseth, on behalf of the Progress Party, proposals Nos. 20-22, by Magnar Lund Bergo, on behalf of the Socialist Left, proposal No. 23, from Eli Sollied Uppereas on behalf of the Center Party First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. Twenty-three from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for the consolidation of the regional art museum to be financed by means of both state and regional resources according to the same distribution keys as the cultural historical museums.’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-01.ana.ud1667e1812	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 20–22, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 20 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to draw up a comprehensive time and funding plan for the Norwegian film catalogue.’ Proposal No. 21 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to give the new centre of expertise the task of carrying out a thorough investigation into the new Norwegian language situation.’ Proposal No. 22 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to return to Stortinget with a plan for the implementation of an interaction of public cultural policy.’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-01.ana.ud1667e1839	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 16-19, from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The decision requests the Government to terminate the purchasing system for phonograms as it operates today.’ Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to liquidate the Norwegian Culture Council in its current form. The allocation of funds that do not exceed the State budget is added to Innovation Norway or the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade.’ Proposal No. 18 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to turn the museums into limited liability companies so that they can be freer to operate more effectively.’ Proposal No. 19 reads: ‘The Government asks the Government not to prioritize or favour the new Norwegian language’.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-01.ana.ud1667e1871	There is a vote on proposal No. 15, from the Progress Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for an evaluation of the impact of the state’s efforts on the professionalisation of local and regional cultural work. The evaluation should pay particular attention to the impact of this priority on public support and cooperation with the voluntary sector in the field of culture.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-01.ana.ud1667e1886	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2–14, from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to set up a cultural law.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to clarify the role of the regions in cultural policy.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose a comprehensive plan to ensure that all children in Norway who so wish are offered a place in the cultural school within a reasonable amount of self-payment.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government asked for a cultural bag for kindergarten and secondary school in the context of the evaluation of the cultural school bag.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that rules on gender equality are followed in the various cultural-Norway establishments and that measures promoting gender equality are implemented.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to grant the Elverum Party Games the status of a node institution’. Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to assess whether Brageteatret should be awarded regional theatre status with special functions in children’s and youth theatres and multicultural theatres.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to draw up a stepping-up plan for the funding of dance and free performing arts, including an increase in production support and the establishment of a new support scheme for dance under the Norwegian Culture Council.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to consider changing the target area of the State decoration scheme, so that it applies not only to public-owned buildings but also to publicly-used buildings.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that a digital national knowledge base is established.’ Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The Council asks the Government to assess the feasibility of setting up a fund, the Vinjefond, which will help to strengthen innovative journalism and other publications in new Norwegian.’ Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to consider changing the percentage distribution between the three umbrella organisations managing the Free Fund funds so that the distribution is in line with the number of beneficiaries of the grant scheme.’;» Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The Government requests the annual budgetary procedure to provide an overview of policy areas of cultural policy which are not the responsibility of the Ministry of Culture and the Church.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-01.ana.ud1667e1965	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Advance Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to contribute to the realisation of Rockcity at Namsos, including the establishment of a rock museum, and a pop institute and pop and rock archives in Trondheim.’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-01.ana.ud1667e1986	Olemic Thommesen – for the voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-01.ana.ud1667e1989	I am otherwise not happy to oblige the Government to do things, but this is a matter for which we are very much in favour, and the government parties will therefore vote for you.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-01.ana.ud1667e2008	The President expects that the Labour Party, the Advance Party and the Centre will now support the vote subsidiaryly.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-01.ana.ud1667e2040	The President assumes that the Advance Party wants to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-01.ana.ud1667e2059	The President expects the Right Party, the Christian Party and the Left to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-01.ana.ud1667e2121	There is no record.
