ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e28	The called alternates, for Akershus County Harald Espelund, and for Uppland County Reidun Gravdahl, have taken the seat. The representative of Kenneth Svendsen will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e39	I am pleased to make a proposal to end the ‘AutoPASS’ test on ferries where business and drivers get increased costs.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e44	The representative Signe Eye will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e47	On behalf of the representatives of Svein Roald Hansen, Sylvia Brustad and myself, I would like to propose the establishment of the archipelago park in Østfold.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e52	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e76	On Monday the Stortingen received a message from the Prime Minister's office that the following members of the Government will meet for today's Question Time: Prime Minister Kjell Magne Bondevik Council of State Ingerd Schou The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, would like to ask questions of substance. – We then start with the first main questions, from the representative Jens Stoltenberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e92	I have a question for the Prime Minister. The position of the Pension Commission shows that there is a need for a reform of the Norwegian population's security, and all parties have stood behind the idea and the understanding that conversions and restrictions are necessary in order to secure popular security in the future. The government’s problem is that, at the same time as that message, it has a completely different message, that of giving tens of billions of dollars in tax bills. The Labour Party believes that we have to choose between lower taxes – mostly for those who have the most from before – and safe and good pensions for people most. And my question to the Prime Minister is: does he not see that it makes it more difficult to understand the need for a change of popular security, to get a sound reform of our pension system, on the grounds that we have to save money, while the same government believes that we have many billions of dollars to reduce the tax to those who have the most money from before?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e101	Here I believe that the representative Stoltenberg creates an artificial contrast. First of all, the Workers' Party itself has both promised and participated in most of what has been given in tax relief so far in this large-scale period. It has been absolutely necessary to secure jobs that could otherwise have been exposed, as there has been a great deal of relief to businesses. Secondly, what this government has promised of tax reliefs for the rest of this period is the amount of money of a completely different size than the violent differences it becomes in payments and payments from the pension scheme. These are not comparable at all. The representative of Stoltenberg knows that very well, for he has studied this. There is an aberration in the balance of the population's fear over the years to billions, and the tax relief we have promised in this way is microscopic. They also occur in a completely different time interval than when this imbalance in the population's fear seriously strikes. That is why I believe that the representative Stoltenberg here makes comparisons that have nothing to do with reality.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e110	I deeply disagree with the presentation that the Prime Minister now gives of the facts. It is true that the Labour Party has voted for some relief. We acknowledge that, because we believe that we are things that we promised in the election campaign and have carried out. But when the government goes in for 31 billion dollars in lower taxes, there is a significant amount, which makes it difficult to finance well-being in the coming years and years, because there is a lasting decrease in the level of taxation. And it's completely wrong when the Prime Minister says that $31 billion is a microscopic amount. It is, in fact, when you see it in relation to today's national product, in the order of the tightening up proposed by the Pension Commission. The Pension Commission intervenes for a reduction of 2-3 pst. of the national product. That's NOK 22-23 billion. So it's the same size as the tax relief that the Government is in favour of, and the reductions proposed by the Pension Commission, in relation to today's national product. It is quite serious that the Prime Minister does not at all understand the extent of the tax promises he himself gives, and what kind of lasting problems it creates to fund the population's wealth in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e115	I didn't say that $31 billion is a microscopic amount, but in relation to the imbalance people's fear will go into in a few years, in the future, that's actually it. So now there's no NOK 31 billion difference in terms of the Workers' Party and the Cooperative Government. The Labour Party has voted in favour of approx. two thirds of the tax relief that has been granted so far, and I am pleased that the Workers' Party has done so, because it has ensured vulnerable jobs. In addition, the Workers' Party has promised a regular adjustment to the top tax in order not to become a tax on general income but to remain a tax on high incomes. So making this huge difference and putting it up against the necessary conversions in our pension system, I'm insisting on comparing sizes that have nothing to do with each other.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e120	There will be follow-up questions – Bjarne Håkon Hanssen.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e123	We need a popular response to the pension reform. It's important that most people see the need for change. The government says it will remove the wealth tax. It will give the state an annual, permanent loss of income of about NOK 8 billion. Does the Prime Minister really think that such a tax cut for those who obviously have the most from before will not at all affect people's attitudes to be able to see the need for tightening up the pension?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e130	First of all, the government does not say that it will eliminate the wealth tax, but steps down the wealth tax. What we've been particularly concerned about is property taxes on working capital, that is, capital that stands in an enterprise and works, which makes it easier to secure and create jobs. In my view, this is the most problematic part of the property tax – it is a company tax unfortunate. Whether it's possible to separate it out and just take it and not other property taxes is one of the things we're going to work with in the future. However, if a person takes into account the position of the Skauge Committee — which will underpin a tax reform — the selection will see this in the context, among others. with the dividend tax. As is well known, the Skauge Committee has proposed some form of dividend tax and believes that this overall provides a better incentive to secure jobs. I'm not prepared to stand here now and discuss the property tax in isolation. This needs to be discussed in the context of a total change in the tax system that makes sense to businesses, because the fight against unemployment is a major concern for the co-operation administration.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e140	Kristin Halvorsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e143	In the context of the treatment of pension reform, the Prime Minister has committed a frontal attack on SV. He calls us immature populists because we believe that a pension reform with such extensive restrictions must be dealt with in such a way that most people, who are hit by the proposals that have been made, can be involved in the discussion on this. I wonder what is the Prime Minister's vision of democracy? Is it really the case that a comprehensive pension reform, by which all people in Norway are affected, is going to be carried through in the Grand Duchy in such a way as to ensure that one does not approach the issues of the election campaign in 2005 because the voters are unable to take a proper position on what the pension reform entails?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e150	It has been in the cards for a long time, since Jens Stoltenberg put down the Pension Commission, that one should seek to make a decision on it during the current growing-up period. And the Labour Party leader, Jens Stoltenberg, has actually said that one of the most important things that will happen in this period is that a sheep adopted a new pension reform. There's a year and a half left for the election, and that should be quite possible. I think it's much easier for the parties to take the necessary thanks – because there has to be some roof here that's not just popular – if one does it at a good distance from a election campaign. I have registered that it obviously does not want SV. They do not want to go into a discussion of such a possible broad settlement. I find that regrettable, and that's why I've used the characteristics I've done. It is clear that SV will instead make this a campaign case. It is, of course, clear to do so, but then to be able to get the cross-political consensus about the necessary action to secure pensions in the future – that is what it is all about – I think is much more difficult. I must note that SV is not mature.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e157	Carl I. Hagen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e160	One of the reasons given by the Pension Commission for their proposal is that you have to save money. Nevertheless, the Commission has only looked at the old-age pension, which is between 35 and 40 pst. of the total fear of the people. Is the government going to look at the whole of the population in connection with its work in preparing a message for the Storting, so that we don't look at the retirement pension unilaterally? It is also the case that the total budget is about $600 billion. It is remarkable that if there is a need to save money, questions can be asked about when Norway is going with a staggering surplus — no other areas of the state budget. Will the Prime Minister confirm that the Government does not intend to accept the proposal proposed by the Pension Commission, namely lower pensions in relation to current social security for those with the lowest pensions and higher pensions for those with the highest incomes, supported by most members, except the representatives of the SV and the Progress Party of the Commission? The Labour Party has also supported this unsocial distribution.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e169	The President is familiar with the term "wonderful deficit" but did not know that there are also surpluses that thunder.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e172	It's quite right, as the representative Hagen says, that in terms of the increase in the cost of people's fear, which is enormous, it's not just the old age pension, it's all the more because of the increase in the cost of disability. This is what we discussed in the Sandman Committee. From the turn of the year, the government has already introduced a change that we hope will give better control of these costs, namely to introduce the concept of ‘temporary disability’, which means a closer follow-up of those who are unannounced, and where one should have an evaluation – as far as I remember between the first and fourth years – to see if it is possible to bring them back to work. So this question has been addressed, and it's implemented things. This does not mean that we should not also continue to work with this part of the problem. On the other hand, if we're going to do that in the big shot on the basis of the Sigbjørn Johnsen Commission, I'm more in doubt about it. We also have to do something about retirement. At the time of the introduction of popular interest, we worked on average 44 years and were pensioners for ten years. Now we work on average 35 years and are retired for 20 years. These numbers themselves show that the system is collapsing if we don't do anything.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e181	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e184	Let me first say that I am pleased that the President has got a new expression in his vocabulary – which he had not heard before. Then I have a question for the Prime Minister who also goes to the Pension Commission, but this time on the process. When we had a corresponding sample and a corresponding process in the 1980s, the sample gave the Commission's position in 1984. The government made its announcement in the autumn of 1988, and the Stortinge dealt with it in the spring of 1989, in an election year. Will the Prime Minister confirm that the same process as in 1988-1989 will be followed, that the Government will present its views in a communication, which will then be dealt with in the Grand Duchy, so that the timing of possible wide-ranging compromises and possible wide-ranging disintegration takes place in the context of a normal deleveraging process, in the handling committee, based on the government's unambiguous, clear advice given in a big-scale announcement that the entire Government is behind?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e193	The entire government tends to be behind the news, at least this government. The government aims to promote a forecast of growth during the autumn or winter season. We are asked to consider whether it is possible in this communication to deal with all the questions raised by the Sigbjørn Johnsen Commission, or whether it might be an advantage to focus on the main element, which is primarily the modernised popular fear. We're also going to contact the parties at Stortinget before we submit the message to discuss aspects of this, to get input from the parties and see if it's possible to put a platform for the widest possible settlement about this. The actual process itself will of course happen in Stortinget. But having pre-contacts on major issues where it is necessary to have a sustainable system behind a large majority is not uncommon. That also happened in the case Carl I. Hagen mentioned, in the 1980s. Then I myself sat in government and participated in such consultations. So that's what we want to add up to. I believe it would be a clear advantage to adopt the broad lines of a new pension reform during this ageing period, as the Labour Party leader, Jens Stoltenberg, has previously stated the importance of. I notice that those who make the most of their reservations about it are the two parties that have never been in government, namely the Advance Party and SV, and I sometimes wonder if there is a connection here. It is necessary to have a sustainable pension system, not only economically but also politically, i.e.: that it can keep up with changing population and changing governments. This is what we do to secure pensions for future pensioners, not to put them at risk. Now, if we just go ahead with today's system, we're putting the pensions at risk for the generations to come, because that won't be economically sustainable. That's what we all now have to have a responsibility to do something about.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e206	When you look at just old-age pensions and people's money instead of the total state budget – in a situation where we go with significant, dwindling profits [[muttering in the hall]] So I understand that the Prime Minister wants to powder the responsibility and try to tie up the opposition before the Government submits its message. Does not the Prime Minister see the significant constitutional problems of pulverizing responsibility – what is the responsibility of the Government, and what is going to happen in the Stortinget – in order to obtain advance commitments from the large-scale groups and at the same time to try to make it impossible for the parties to have this matter thoroughly dealt with in their party bodies? When the Prime Minister himself considers this to be a major matter, would it not be natural for the parties' national meetings to discuss this before the election and for the voters also to express their opinion in elections?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e214	The president records that the downpour is rising.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e217	In any case, I would like to point out that I think Carl I. Hagen's statements are a new example of his not sufficiently taking into account the seriousness of the future pension system and the responsibility that we should all have to ensure both an economically and politically sustainable system for the future. When, among other things, Hagen says we can continue with today's system because we have so much profit because of the Petroleum Fund, which does not even cover the pension obligations we have, this is taking away from future generations. There are many welfare schemes, other than the pension scheme, that are to be ensured and that will be compromised if we do not use sufficient resources in the Petroleum Fund to meet this when the oil revenue one day begins to wane and gradually disappear. We're not going to pulverize responsibility. But I have such a lot of experience from big business and government that I know that if we're going to get sustainable systems that keep through shifting numbers and changing governments, one should have a cross-political consensus, and it can be easier to secure by prior contacts. This does not mean that the Government does not present what is their view, and that the Storing will not decide what they want, but pre-signals can be useful.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e224	There will be four follow-up questions – Jens Stoltenberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e227	I am pleased to note that the Prime Minister has now changed his mind in relation to what he expressed earlier in January at the NHO Annual Conference, where he thought we should adopt a reform before Christmas. Now he's talking about an hourly schedule that allows the Storting to adopt something during the spring/summer of 2005, and that's a quite different schedule. It is important that there is now no benefit in the form of treatment. The crucial thing is that we get a proper and good treatment of a major and important reform, that people can feel confident that we will have a good pension system, which is socially fair and which people can take part in the discussion of, and that we will take a decision at the time we feel ready to make a decision, whether it is spring 2005 or possibly later – we are open to both. The substance of the reform is crucial. On the other hand, I would warn against believing that it is possible to split up a pension reform. Because, in fact, what we're going to do with popular security is related to what is proposed for occupational pensions and contractual pensions, and that's why we need to have a comprehensive approach to global reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e236	I agree that there should be no treatment-type performance, but the form of treatment may be important in order to achieve a successful outcome. I expect that Stoltenberg – although he does not allow his own statements to go ahead – is about adopting a new pension reform as one of the most important things we have to do in this ageing period. He stressed this very much when the Sigbjørn Johnsen Commission was appointed, and I assume that Stoltenberg is standing by. Can we push this for a few months beyond 2005 and still get the reform adopted in good time before a campaign – where it is usually not the best climate to hold back – I will not let it go for prestige in it. I have also noticed that Stoltenberg has not rejected the possibilities for prior talks – not in the same way as Carl I. Hagen at least – although it will not bind up the Government or the Stortinget, but sees that it can be useful as a basis for finding a cross-political platform. Because I guess with his government experience, Stoltenberg believes that it will be important to have a pension reform that is not only economically sustainable but also politically sustainable.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e243	Kristin Halvorsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e246	I have to say, I'm surprised at the discouraging tone that the Prime Minister allows to take – not to SV, because we can take it well, but to the voters and people most, when it comes to the treatment of the pension reform. For there is no SV that is affected by the characteristic ‘unripe’, it must be the voters who are affected by the characteristic ‘unripe’ when the voters are unable to be with and discuss what the Prime Minister thinks is necessary restrictions on the pension system in the context of a choice. So the Prime Minister says to have a broad political basis behind a pension reform. I agree with that. And SV has gone into the treatment of this pension reform with tightening proposals, but with a different distribution. However, if the political parties do not have contact with the voters in relation to how this is to be done, and the voters are confident that a broad majority of the Grand Duchy is implementing a fair pension reform, it is not a sustainable reform, because then the voters will reject the proposals made by the Grand Duchy. [[The President clubs.]] How in the world does the Prime Minister feel that a comprehensive pension reform can be implemented without being in contact with the voters?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e253	The President must ask for respect for the speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e256	I have never thought that we should adopt major issues without contacting the voters, and it is quite possible to have contact with the voters without it being through an election campaign – at least the party I belong to has a good tradition for processes to get it to. As Kristin Halvorsen puts it now, in case one can only adopt major issues in the context of a campaign or after a choice, and then the Storting will become the paralytic of action. The size must also be able to deal with and decide matters without a campaign. But I find that Kristin Halvorsen – that was her party I characterized, and not the voters – does not want to. SV will not deal with this matter until after a choice, i.e. not until more than a year and a half. We just have to find out. This was not the case when the Pension Commission was set up. I have of course my thoughts on why SV wants it to be so. However, SV should not ignore that we are going to make contact to get their views before we submit the message. And then we see what responsibility SV is willing to assume. I am at least glad that the Workers' Party has not cut off this opportunity.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e265	Marit Arnstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e268	After listening to this round, I'm probably a little uncertain about how the government intends to put up its strategy to get a broad and solid majority in the Storting, and also to get an open debate with other parties. It is unlikely that it will be easier to ensure a pension reform that will last for some decades if you are not willing to listen to questions about the distributive effects and about the links with both labour and tax policies, and if you are not willing to look at the arguments put forward regarding the process in the future. I find it a little difficult to understand what the problem is if you have to wait over the election campaign in 2005. What's the problem with that? Will that not also contribute to a lively debate on an important matter? As Kristin Halvorsen said, it's not necessarily the voters who are the problem. The centre party wants to contribute to a broad settlement, but we want to warn the government against locking itself in a rhetoric, even here in the Stortinget, which makes it difficult for them to achieve their own ability to achieve broad settlements.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e278	I have never said that the Government is not willing to listen to objections to the Pension Commission's proposal. It's not like we're just going to take a blue copy of it and promote the big picture message. Then we could have promoted the big shot in the State Council on Friday! First of all, of course, we intend to listen to the hearing opinions that are now coming beyond spring, and to those from the political parties. That's why I've said that we want input from the parties, also from the Center Party. But some people obviously want to cut off such an opportunity for prior contact. The point here is that the Cooperative Government sees its responsibility in proposing a model for a future pension reform that is both economically and politically sustainable. We're going to be that responsibility consciously, and then I don't think we're going to spend an unreasonable amount of time, but we're going to spend enough time discussing it properly. So I remember that it's two and a half years left for the election, and it's quite a long time for a political case. If the parties at Stortinget do not want to be present, and in my view, then I will not take this responsibility during this majority period, I will have to register it. But I intend to take the responsibility we know.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e285	Harald T. Nesvik – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e288	The Prime Minister is very concerned about the actual treatment time here. Earlier today we heard the Prime Minister say that the matter will be presented in a notice from the Government in autumn/winter 2004. In that case, it is not a year and a half before the decision will be taken, if necessary – if the Prime Minister is given his will to deal with this matter before the elections. If you want to succeed in a pension reform that affects the entire Norwegian people, it is important that you have the popular anchoring and the popular debate with the people who are being hit, and especially in a situation where we now see that it is those with lower and medium incomes that are being hit. In fact, we have already been asked to postpone the consultation period. Is not the Prime Minister willing to listen to the signals coming, among others. from LO, that you want more time on this, because you want the widest possible anchoring, so that the trust in the pension system in people is actually maintained?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e297	Yes, I want the widest possible anchoring, and it is behind everything I have said about the government's course of action. That is also why we intend to contact the parties. It is not that the parties now need to be inactive until we have promoted a big message. The Pension Commission's suspension is available. The Progress Party can start right away and discuss how they think about a future pension scheme – of course they can – and then the Government's message comes, and then a few paces will come to the treatment. I must also say that I reserve something against the language used by Nesvik. He's talking about "frame" the whole people. First of all, there are actually more that with this system will come out as well as today. Second, what's going to happen to the whole people is if we don't do anything. Then we get a pension scheme that breaks down, and the parties that contribute to it will be responsible for it in a few years' time. It's going to hit the whole people. It's going to hit the pensioners. I do not intend to take that responsibility. On the contrary, I intend to take responsibility for reforming the system so that it becomes sustainable. I also hope that Stortinget sees.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e304	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e307	I would like to ask the Prime Minister a question about the situation of the Norwegian forces in Iraq, because there has been some confusion about what has been their policy. But the Minister of Defence and the Minister of Foreign Affairs have been out, both Monday and yesterday, and have been very clear that there is no cause for confusion. There is only one thing that applies to the Norwegian soldiers in Iraq: they can only use power in self-defense. And then I basically thought it was the government's view. But in the day's revision yesterday, the Prime Minister said about the same matter: «As far as I am informed, they only have access to self-defense.»... « Of course we shall go through this. We cannot publish all these rules, because we are endangering the lives and security of Norwegian soldiers." So the Prime Minister showed a much greater uncertainty about what are the rules for the participation of the Norwegian soldiers in Iraq. Can I get a clarification of this?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e317	Kristin Halvorsen would like to have this, because I have had the opportunity after being interviewed by the Dagsrevyen – yesterday morning, otherwise – to go through this, and feel absolutely safe about the conclusion. And I actually think here's the NRK that has contributed to the confusion. What they did not take inward when they started this matter in a morning broadcast on radio is that Norway in its own agreement with the United Kingdom states the following: «Any use of force by the Norwegian personnel will be limited to the excess of self-defense for the Iraqi Stabilisation Force.» It is therefore clearly established that the use of power from the Norwegian forces should be limited to self-defence, and then as part of the stabilisation force. They are not part of the occupying force; they have no occasion for using power for offensive purposes, only for self-defense. I think that's right and logical. Even participation in stabilisation is not harmless. The crews must then have the opportunity to defend themselves – if they are threatened – in order to carry out what is their main task, namely to contribute to the reconstruction of Iraq with road, water, bridge, electricity, etc. If they are threatened, they must have the opportunity to defend themselves. The local Norwegian manager has, as far as I know, stated that he has so far not come up with any decisive difficulties in the practice of this. The conclusion is clear, and it shares the Prime Minister. Militaryly, the Norwegian stabilisation force can only operate in self-defence operations, not in offensive operations. It's not the stabilizing force. Thus, through this agreement with the United Kingdom, Norway has a derogation from the general rules which make this clear. There is no reason for further misunderstandings.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e330	I see that the Prime Minister feels safe when he is equipped with a script from the Minister of Defence about what is going to happen to the Norwegian forces in Iraq, and that the security that the Prime Minister is now showing in the staging room is not the uncertainty he gave in the Dagsrevy yesterday. I then expect the Prime Minister to believe that there is no need for any further review of what are the conditions for the soldiers in Iraq, but that he has now been able to carry it out. I want to ask him a political question, which is that when President Bush gave his State of the Union speech, he referred to, among other things. Norway's participation in Iraq as an argument against an additional UN track. He framed Norway's efforts in Iraq, and said that it meant that it was now internationalized. It went into Bush’s argument against his potential democratic counterparts in the next presidential elections, an argument against further internationalisation and a UN track. I wonder if Bondevik feels comfortable with Bush using Norway in the election campaign against the Democrats.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e337	The President will warn against a practice in which to comment on assumptions about which manuscripts might be used or not used during the exchange of lines. Especially in the case of a spontaneous questioning session, it should not be appropriate.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e340	I'm not going to comment on it in addition to saying that if Kristin Halvorsen thinks that I uncritically accept the script from others, she's wrong. Then she does not know my form of work in front of the spontaneous question hours. I actually tend to go through this thoroughly myself. I have also done so in this case, which I had not had occasion to do in the morning, partly because of other tasks, partly because of illness. I have now gone through this myself and feel completely safe, independent from the Ministry of Defence's script. As far as UN involvement is concerned, one can read that UN Secretary-General Kofi Annan himself – i.e. not President Bush, but Kofi Annan – is very reluctant to talk about UN soldiers in Iraq. On the other hand, it is my opinion, and I also believe Mr Annans, that the UN should step in gradually. And those who are in Iraq, in the stabilisation force, whatever form it may take, should have a mandate from the United Nations. It's got the stabilizing force. There are clear resolutions calling for forces to stabilize in Iraq, which are behind our deployment of the engineering company.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e347	There will be follow-up questions – Kjetil Bjørklund.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e351	In the secret rules of engagement for the stabilisation of Iraq, Norway has exempted itself from the use of power, with the exception of self-defence, specified by the Prime Minister. The rules underpinning Norway’s derogation are unknown to the Stortinget. However, through the debate that has taken place in the media in recent days, it may seem that the task of the stabilisation force is significantly higher than Norway’s exceptions. Does the Prime Minister think that this means something for the humanitarian impression the Government has created around the Norwegian contribution, the tasks of the stabilisation force – of which we are actually a part, with our exceptions – in Iraq, and therefore also for others' impression of the stabilisation force in Iraq as something other than a humanitarian operation?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e358	Firstly, with regard to the exposure rules, I hope that the representative Bjørklund also understands that one cannot publish them. It would make it very difficult for the forces that those who would like to threaten or attack them will be able to see the rules on how to defend themselves. That would be extremely risky. That's why it's also extremely serious that someone contributes to making these known. That is also why the Ministry of Defence has had to investigate this. What is known, and without any problem can be made known, is the agreement we have with the United Kingdom, where it is an explicit expression that it is only in self-defense that the Norwegian forces can operate militarily. With regard to the concept of humanitarian action, I have used to say it this way: The Norwegian engineering company is involved in a reconstruction and stabilisation of Iraq. Some of the tasks are humanitarian, but one should be careful to call the entire operation a humanitarian action.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e367	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e370	I have a question for the Prime Minister. The centre party has repeatedly pointed out in this room that the Government and the majority of the population have not been willing to provide sufficient resources to maintain a good and reassuring hospital service throughout the country. So far, we have to say that the problem has been largely eliminated. So now we see that the director of Health South has fallen for major problems and a lack of trust. Other directors consider doing the same, including: in Nord-Trøndelag. Concrete aspects such as pensions, hired consultants and crackdowns with the coding of diagnostics weaken the confidence of health businesses. However, the underlying important relationship is the lack of the resources needed to maintain a good and secure hospital service. All these conditions that come to light create insecurity for people about their own hospital services, as well as a lack of confidence. What will the Government do to restore confidence in health businesses? And what will it do above all to ensure the necessary resources for a good and safe hospital offer throughout the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e377	In the case of health enterprises, there are different aspects of their functioning. Marit Arnstad and I agreed to vote against the reform adopted by the majority of the population. But now it is up to the Government to manage the reform as well as possible. The appropriations allocated to health establishments have increased sharply. It's given positive results. The waiting lists are now shorter and the average waiting time is shorter. There has been a progress that is significant to many patients. It must not be gone in describing the problems we have. Health enterprises face some migration challenges. they have a balance sheet requirement; The budgetary agreement shifted to 2005. They were added another 500 million. kr for the operation of the budgetary agreement between the Government Parties and the Workers' Party. Now it is true that in the hospital sector more and more billions could have been granted, and the problems would still not have been fully resolved. There's an enormous need in that way. This needs to be adapted to what we can achieve within a responsible total budget. Increases in interest rates would, for example: also affected the hospital sector, if we had led an economic policy that led to it. We have, as we know, avoided that. The interest rate has fallen sharply. I think one should be a little careful to mix the departure of the director of Health South into a debate on the economy of hospital companies. It was a very special matter, which went on the relationship with the director of Health South, who made the chairman choose to leave when he did not get a majority for the proposal he promoted. The two things I think you should keep clear of each other.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e388	I think that both the Prime Minister and I at least see that the reorganisation itself has not solved any problems in the hospital sector. The important and fundamental question here is: What resources are available? What the Prime Minister here refers to as ‘conversion challenges’ in the hospital sector, I believe that a great many more than the country now experience as the closure of offers on which they feel dependent, whether in food departments or in emergency medicine. The overarching thing here in relation to the departures of directors that we have now seen – which is a failure of trust, which is also serious – is the question of resources. Now something concrete should happen on the part of the Government in that area. After all, the amount of Gardermobanan debt of NOK 6.7 billion was cancelled in its own time. Now the Central Party has made a proposal in Stortinget to cancel the hospital's accumulated debt of NOK 3 billion. It could have allowed freedom of action to maintain and develop hospital services throughout the country. My question is, how does the government ask itself that question?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e395	I expect that the Central Party also sees the need for conversion, both in this and in other areas. I guess the central party's policy isn't that everything should be just like it was before. The situation in Hospital-Norway was not satisfactory before the reform came. Too many people did not receive treatment in time. The queues were longer than now. The waiting time was longer than now. The switchover may mean the effective coordination of supply and the timely provision of help to several patients. In this way, it has actually worked to a significant extent. The government has to make sure that something concrete happens,' said the representative Arnstad. The government has increased the appropriations year by year, both in the ordinary budgets and in some cases also in the revised national budgets. It has never been granted that much. There have never been so many patients. It also belongs in the picture. You can't blackify this, because then you create undue fear. But we're still facing problems, yes. Indebtedness as an instrument, I generally have little faith, because it does not stimulate exactly good financial management. I think appropriations are better. They're targeted at those who really need it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e406	There will be four follow-up questions – first Magnhild Melting Group Kleppa.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e409	I believe that the Prime Minister, like the Central Party, lacks the regional populace who previously had an overview of the supply in the individual region, and who also stood up when it rallied dialogue with different patient groups, and when it rallied the need for necessary means, and that he agrees with what the Labour Party's health policy spokesman, Kristoffersen, says that what is happening is weakening confidence in the leadership model. But it's the government's responsibility to ensure the creation of patient trust and security. What will the Prime Minister do to prevent the centralisation of the most necessary supply, the closure of good supply, for example: maternity wards and before psychiatry, which is now happening?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e414	First, I would like to agree with the representative of Meltveit Kleppa that I also miss the regional elected representatives. That was one of the reasons why we voted against this reform. However, when it was first adopted by the majority of the population, the Minister of Health has taken the initiative to open the Governing Board meetings of regional health companies. There is one step to give greater transparency and thus bring more into the important discussion about the structure of our hospital system. It is clear that the Government is responsible for the need for trust. That responsibility is very conscious of the Minister of Health. I have also provided guidelines — based on the majority of people in large numbers, as far as I remember — that allow for major changes in the hospital structure within a health region to be taken up at the health minister’s table. We have already seen that he has taken a stand that has deviated from the proposals of the board of some health companies, among others. to ensure a more decentralised structure.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e421	Olav Gunnar Ballo – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e425	The Prime Minister correctly points out that there is a risk of providing significant funds to health businesses and hospitals without restoring the resources deployed in the form of increased patient diagnosis and treatment. I can complement by giving him good examples of it: in Health South, creative diagnostic coding has been seen without it being about increased patient treatment as a result of a change in diagnosis. We've seen the use of expensive consultants, we've seen sky-high remuneration from directors and board members, and we've seen very lucrative pension agreements. All of this has been achieved after the Stortinget has granted more to the hospitals – actually targeted against diagnostics and patient treatment, but used in other ways under the direction of Health South. When the Prime Minister is concerned about the poor use of resources in the hospital sector, does not the Prime Minister then see an increased need to bring decisions about the conditions I have mentioned to the Stortinget, so that the Stortinge controls what the funds are to be used for, rather than being governed by the various health business boards?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e432	The bulk of the reforms adopted in the previous period and managed by the current government have now set guidelines for who is dealing with which issues — not in detail, but in terms of their size. If the majority of people were to think otherwise about this and want to join the decision-making authority in far more cases than today, the majority of people would be told. I would warn against going too far in that the Storting will deal with a lot of questions about the hospital structure in the individual regions. We follow the guidelines that are anchored in the bulk of the population. It's our job to manage it. If the bulk of the population wants a different form of treatment, and wants the Storting itself to sit with many of these matters, I expect the Storting to give a message. The Minister for Health is conscious of his responsibility to get up on his table and decide on major issues relating to structural changes. He has already shown more examples of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e437	Bjarne Håkon Hanssen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e440	I need to start by commending both the Prime Minister and the Minister of Health for the way they have followed up a reform that the Christian People's Party actually opposed. It is a very big reform we have implemented. It affects 100,000 employees, it affects a budget, a use of money, of $65 billion, and it affects hundreds of thousands of patients. The reform is today 2 years and 28 days old. I think it is important that we realize that everything impossible can be in place from day one, and that it will take time – perhaps months or years – to get on the right track with this reform. Then it is also important to be willing to adjust along the way and see if the map matches the terrain. The first opportunity to see how ‘stoda’ is is the revision of the national budget. I ask the Prime Minister to confirm what I have seen as the attitude of the Minister of Health, namely that it is natural for the revised national budget to look at how things develop.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e447	I agree with the representative, Bjarne Håkon Hanssen, who voted in favour of this reform, that one should be willing to look at the need to adjust it whose things do not work as intended. And it should be discussed regularly. I think it's a good idea that we can also bring this up in the revised national budget, where you always look at the need for funding and whether things have happened in the first half of the year that make it change. Otherwise, managing and managing this hospital reform is a very demanding task. I think Bjarne Håkon Hanssen knows a lot about that. It takes a lot of the Minister of Health's time, and I think he's done well. It is very demanding in relation to the large regions and health enterprises located below regional enterprises. I am pleased with the pink Bjarne Håkon Hanssen here giving the Prime Minister and the Minister of Health, because I remember a press conference just before the 2001 elections where the then Prime Minister, Jens Stoltenberg, and the then Minister of Health, Tore Tønne, expressed doubts about a government of parties that had voted against the reform, would be able to manage it. I mean, we've done it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e454	Harald T. Nesvik – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e457	We had in Norway, among others. an activity-based response-driven funding up to New Year’s 60 pst. Then you changed it to 40 pst. in a situation where we had finally managed to achieve a high level of patient treatment in this country. In addition, we now see that there are wide variations from health region to health region in the offer given to patients, and to a very large extent in the waiting lists. In addition, a significant administrative apparatus has been built up in the various health regions. My question to the Prime Minister is: isn't it time to start looking at the possibilities of instead of having five health regions, with the apparatus and administration they have, assessing the creation of their own hospital directorate to take over the tasks, so that you become less dependent on the address of residence when it comes to getting a good health service in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e464	With regard to the relationship between input-driven funding and basic hospital funding, it is a very difficult balance. If you have a very high proportion of ISF, it will, of course, stimulate the activities and operations that get good counting through the ISF, while other services, which can often be very basic and equally important, suffer from it. We believe that the balance point was distorted when it was 60 pst. ISF and 40 pst. basic financing. We swapped the two numbers, and now we're going to have experience with it. It is true that there are still some variations in hospital treatment, and that was the highest degree when it was under the county council. I must remind you that the Progress Party was the ones who are in favour of this reform, although at times they are among the strongest critics of how it turns out in practice. Whether a separate hospital company is better than the Ministry of Health in managing this centrally, I have doubts. I'm not of those who think the creation of businesses is always a semantic, semantic. But this is what I'm willing to discuss during the heading: I'm going to be willing to draw on the experiences we've gained.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e471	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e474	We started this questionnaire with questions about the relationship between pension and tax levels. For this reason, I have a question for the Minister of Social Affairs. After all, the Minister of Social Affairs is responsible for popular security, which is our main instrument for ensuring social justice and social cohesion. Last year we had a blow here in Stortinget related to the issue of pension regulation. There, the Storting had to force the Government to regulate pensions in line with wage developments. My question to the Minister of Social Affairs is: Does the Minister of Social Affairs think it is not problematic for popular fear that there are tens of billions of tax dollars in tax havens that weaken the state's income level?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e483	When it comes to the question of whether it is not a problem with regard to popular security that we are making an effort to reduce taxes, I think I will refer to the answer that the Prime Minister has given. The government is behind the Sem statement, all three parties do. Taxlets are important, including: to create jobs, to ensure that we have jobs that are accessible to everyone. It is clear that the number of disabled people in Norway today is more than 300,000. First of all, we lose valuable labour. It is important that we have jobs, including workplaces that are organised, and as such can reduce the cost of the population's fear. We see that payments in popular security are at the expense of other tasks. The reform that includes, inter alia: The majority, and the Labour Party, have been on and behind, and that applies from 1 January, that it will no longer be such as to get a permanent disability benefit, do their job to reduce the cost of popular security and help people get into work. This is a responsibility for the employers. Employment must then be there, and taxation must also be an important area of action, particularly in the field of employment. It's the government's starting point that these things actually relate.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e491	My impression last spring was that when the government argued so strongly against regulating the pensions in line with wage developments, a main reason from the Government was that this would put so much expense on the government both in the short and long term, that it was not recommendable. There must then be a link between the ability to withstand costs, i.e. to regulate in line with wage developments, and the income of the country at all times. Then I would like to ask the following: Was it such that it was the cost of regulating pensions in line with wage developments that worried the Government – in which case it has a connection with tax relief – or was it simply that the Government would not regulate pensions in line with wage developments?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e498	To put it this way, the government is concerned about the pensioners and the pensioners. The size wanted further additions. But it is still important to ensure security in relation to those who need services from the public interest, but at the same time provide for the benefits – that is, earn the money before using them. Thus, the device is also important in relation to the Government’s tax focus objectives.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e503	There will be follow-up questions – Hill-Marta Solberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e506	We now hear that the Social Minister defends tax relief for business and jobs. The Minister for Social Affairs is even aware that this may have a positive impact on the expenses of the people. Then a natural question is, is it that in some areas of its budgets, the Minister of Social Affairs sees that a tax haven that has been given has actually contributed to reducing the expenditure of the population? Or isn't it just that the very opposite is the case, that the expenses of the people's fear, not least for disability pensions, have increased sharply, not least in the last few years, as there have been strong tax reliefs?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e511	It is true that the expenses of the people have increased. They also increased during the time that the representative Solberg was Minister for Social Affairs. It is important that we take action to try to reduce the costs of the population, both because we need the labour force, and because we see that this is at the expense of other important tasks in society. Not giving permanent disability benefits to people who actually want to get back to work has been one of the main measures of the Government when, from 1 January, we reform the entire disability benefit. This means that employers – and then we have to have jobs – have to take a much greater responsibility. The tax base that has been granted to employers is precisely aimed at providing more jobs, and employers are afraid to invest in our country. This means that employers must be willing to accommodate much more. This means that, in cooperation with the patient, the doctor also has to assess functional performance. This is about spending in the population's security that it is possible to reduce.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e516	Sigbjørn Molvik – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e519	The councils showed sail in their response to Bjarne Håkon Hanssen to greatly increased expenses in the fear of the people, especially linked to disability. The Council of State further says that it is important to get people back to work. I agree. But in the country's largest employer, Norwegian municipalities, the opposite happens. Three out of four municipalities plan to cancel their employees. More than 4000 jobs are lost in order to balance municipal budgets. This increases the pressure on those who are left, and it pushes more people out, and fewer will get nurturing. In this situation, does the Council of State not see the need to increase the income of Norwegian municipalities rather than to use new billions for tax relief?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e526	The budgets of the municipalities have never been larger than they are for 2004, and the commitment to the municipalities has been so large. There is no contradiction between tax relief and the fact that employees who are unable to work full-time actually have an opportunity to work part-time, and that they are provided with facilities at work. I do not intend to release public enterprises in relation to private companies. Here the challenge is the same. This is just one of the grips that the Government is putting into action this year. In addition, there are new demands for reintroduction — faster return to work, not passive benefits, but activity. There are new rules on rehabilitation money, and not least it should also be so that for people who often experience having to go canoeing between state agencies, the decision-making authority is now being brought together in a single establishment, namely Aetate.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e533	Ola D. Lukewarm – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e536	The Minister for Social Affairs said that priority should be given, among other things, to: to get enough money for the disability benefit and all that belongs to the pension side. That's all right, but you've chosen to give tax relief to those who earn the most, and you're very restrained in regulating the basic amount of the population. That means that you give priority to those who already have a lot, and those who are the lowest on the ladder are going to get at least. It may be a principle that the Government confesses to. But what does the government, for example, do? with the pension level in Health South? Will the Government actively intervene and intervene and regulate? That question goes well to the Minister of Social Affairs, but it could also be very interesting to get the Prime Minister's comment on it. And so that with tax relief, you can create more jobs and higher value creation. Has there been any increase in employment in Norway since the current government took up its fiscal policy? I think it's the opposite.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e543	The President has some problems seeing the relationship between one question and the main question. But the last question, I assume, is that the Minister of Social Affairs can answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e547	As far as I could see from the questioner, he now concerned both the area of the Minister of Labour and Administration and the area of the Minister of Health. In any case, my starting point is that it is important that we have a system in the back of the people, such as ours. stimulates people to be at work. Secondly, it also has to be the case if we're going to have population ups and downs, that it's going to pay off to work. I think that, on this issue, I should be careful to say that, in addition to giving tax incentives to employers who are willing to use them to create new jobs, it is important, and has also been important in the Government's tax policy arrangements, to which many in the UK have actually joined.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e552	In some doubt, in view of the regulatory time, Jens Stoltenberg is given the floor for a last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e555	First, I would like to thank the President for giving me the floor. Then I would like to ask the Social Minister whether she agrees with the Prime Minister that the government's tax relief of NOK 31 billion is «microscopic», as he said, in relation to the tightening needs proposed by the Pension Commission. 31 billion is, a little bit depending on how you set up the calculation, 2 to 3 pst. of the total value creation of Norwegian continental holdings – 2 to 3 pst. of the national product in mainland Norway. In fact, it is quite exactly like the tightening requirement proposed by the Pension Commission, which is 2-3 pst. of the national product, i.e. NOK 20 to 30 billion. If it's true, as the Prime Minister says, that this is microscopic, then both the government's tax law is microscopic and the Pension Commission's proposal is microscopic. Both parts are wrong. My question is whether the Minister for Social Affairs agrees with these false statements of the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e560	The President must be allowed to recall that follow-up questions must be related to the main question asked. I think you have to interpret that requirement relatively liberally in order for this issue to be a follow-up issue, but the President will not object to the Social Minister answering it if she wants to.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e563	I almost want to say that the representative is allowed to try. The starting point, of course, is that the statement that underlies the Government is all three parties behind it, and it would be quite remarkable if I were to answer anything but that yes, of course I agree with my Prime Minister. In addition, I think the question has been answered.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e568	The time for the oral question procedure is running out, and we're going over to the ordinary question procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e573	There will be some changes to the list of questions set out, and the President will refer in this context to the overview distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 5, from the representative Trond Giske to the Minister for Culture and the Church, will be answered by the Minister for Education and Research who directs him. At the request of the Minister of Education and Research, the question is moved and answered before question 12, to be answered by the same Council of State. Question 10, from the representative of Rolf Terje Klungland to the Minister for Oil and Energy, must be postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left. Question 11, from the representative Eva M. Nielsen to the Minister for Children and Family Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for Culture and the Church on behalf of the Minister for Children and Family, who has been away. Questions 17 and 18, from Harald T. Nesvik and Gjermund Hagesetter respectively to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade, will be answered by the Minister for Finance on behalf of the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade, who has left. At the request of the Minister of Finance, these questions are moved and dealt with according to question 3, to be answered by the same Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e591	I have a question for the Minister for Foreign Affairs: ‘The trade in agricultural products between Norway and the EU is gradually liberalised and in an unfavourable way for Norwegian agriculture. Is there any limit to what Norwegian authorities accept in respect of imports of agricultural products into Norway from the EU?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e600	Agricultural products, with the exception of processed products, are not part of the general provisions of the EEA Agreement on free trade. However, Article 19 of the EEA Agreement provides for certain limited reliefs in trade in agricultural products. The Article provides that the EU and Norway shall review the conditions for trade in unprocessed agricultural products at intervals of two years with a view to gradual liberalisation. Negotiations shall take place on mutually beneficial terms within the framework of the respective agricultural policy of the Parties. The size agreed last summer for the conclusion of an agreement on the extension of trade in agricultural products under Article 19 of the EEA Agreement. The agreement provided for increased reciprocal allowances for, inter alia: cheese, meat, berries and vegetables. This implies a slight increase in imports from the EU, but at the same time it also opens up for increased Norwegian exports to the European market. Traditionally, cheese has been an important export product to the EU, but also to other products, such as: the potential for increased exports should be provided for fruit and berries. Protocol 3 to the EEA Agreement deals with trade in processed agricultural products. Here too, trade barriers are facilitated, but the parties have the opportunity to balance the price differences of raw materials through customs and export support. This ensures a level playing field for producers of processed agricultural products in the EEA territory. There are now discussions with the European Commission with a view to reaching a revised and mutually balanced protocol to the EEA Agreement. I would like to stress that this is not a unilateral liberalisation but a mutual improvement of trading conditions within the framework of the respective agricultural policies of the EU and Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e613	I thank you for your answer. The EU exports far more agricultural products to Norway than Norway exports to the EU. Can the Council of States confirm that the agreement on the liberalisation of trade in agricultural products between Norway and the EU is of great benefit to the EU?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e620	Like all trade agreements, this is, of course, very beneficial for both parties. I think trade in general is a win-win situation. That Norwegian exporters have not been able to exploit the possibilities as offensively as any of the EU producers, we have to register and take over. But that this that Stortinget has approved is not an agreement that both parties could have enjoyed if you have the right offensive attitude, I do not agree.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e625	The Nordic countries of the EU are pushers within the EU to push for greater agricultural exports from the EU to Norway. Does the Norwegian authorities, through the Nordic cooperation bodies, try to drive this pressure down on Sweden and Denmark? If not, is the explanation that the Norwegian Government thinks it is good that Norwegian agriculture is subjected to this liberalisation pressure?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e630	I'm not quite sure where the Bastisen will with that question. I would just like to say briefly that we have extensive contacts, particularly with the Swedish authorities, on precisely these questions. It is the EU we are negotiating with, but it does not prevent us from having close and extensive contact with the Swedish authorities in particular on these issues. It is mostly where there has been a pressure within the EU system. Otherwise, I hope that the Bastisen and I will be able to agree on a never-ending suggestion that there are offensive opportunities here that the Norwegians have not quite managed to exploit. That's too bad.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e641	‘At Statoil’s facilities in Mongstad, there is an almost unused sewage treatment plant that removes sulphur from fuel. Such a process costs approx. 10 to 12 øre per. litre, which makes this type of fuel more expensive than today's fuel. A clean-up of sulphur away from the fuel will bring significant environmental benefits, but this means that sulphur-free fuel has the same price or is cheaper than today's fuel. Will the Council of State take the initiative to lower sulphur-free fuel charges so that they become competitive at price?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e648	On 3 March last year, the EU adopted a new Fuel Directive which states that sulphur-free fuels shall be available on the market as from 1 January 2005 and fully phased in throughout the country by 1 January 2009. The 2004 budget assessed the introduction of a tax incentive for sulphur-free fuels in order to achieve a previous transition to this quality. It was assumed that the price of current fuel qualities would not increase. However, estimates made by the State Pollution Control Agency on behalf of the Ministry of the Environment showed that the State's proceeds would exceed the environmental benefits. It was therefore not proposed to introduce a tax incentive. As of 1 January next year, it is therefore a requirement of the EU that sulphur-free fuel be available on the Norwegian market. The Ministry of the Environment is currently investigating how this requirement can be met by amending the regulation on the quality of petrol and motor vehicle diesel. Different alternatives are considered, including a tax differentiation alternative. Based on this work, the Government will assess what is the most effective way to implement the EU Directive.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e657	I think the government has a slightly offensive attitude to this. So you choose coercion over tax incentives that you could have introduced a long time ago. I find it regrettable that we are not in the forefront of the directives, so that we can achieve an early environmental benefit. So I hope this comes too fully at the next revision.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e662	I've basically answered that.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e671	I will be allowed to ask the following questions to the Minister for Finance: ‘The traffic damage charge shall be transferred from 1 January from the insurance companies to the annual car charge. According to a letter from the Ministry of Finance of the newspaper Progression, it reads ‘The premium supplement due for payment before 1 January 2004 applies to the calendar year 2003 and not to any part of 2004’. Does the Council of State consider that the payment of the traffic damage tax by insurance companies should not be valid for the period for which payment has been made?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e680	The decision to include the traffic damage charge in the annual fee was taken in respect of the year’s budget. The annual tax was therefore increased by 350 kroner, which corresponds exactly to the amount of the traffic damage tax in 2004. This resulted in a saving of about 40 million. kr. The saving is due to the fact that insurance companies received a remuneration to manage the scheme in the past. Significant efficiency gains are now achieved through aggregation. The traffic damage charge shall follow the calendar year and shall normally be due at the beginning of each calendar year. Because the company's premium alerts are issued throughout the year, car insurance customers have been charged the fee at the same time as their premium due for practical reasons. This means that premium supplements due for payment before 1 January 2004 apply to the whole of the calendar year 2003 and not to any part of 2004. The policy holders who are late in the year have in effect received an interest-free deferral in respect of the current year’s levy. There may be some cases where early warning of premiums in 2004 has been issued including a traffic damage charge for 2004. In such cases, the Main Financial Industry Organisation has made it clear that policy holders will be refunded the traffic damage tax for 2004 at the latest by deducting the next semester. The regulation as the regulated traffic damage charge also provided for the settlement between the policy holder and the insurance company. These provisions may be sown in such a way that the premium supplement follows the period of insurance. The provisions have been adopted to ensure the practical implementation of this system and do not change the clear starting point that the traffic damage charge follows the calendar year.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e691	I thank you for your answer. First of all, there's a $40 million win. I am really glad that the department is getting, but I see that the benefit does not benefit the drivers. It goes right into the state register. In addition, the Council of State will now have some people pay almost twice, or six months more, because there is nothing in the insurance papers of people that this applies to the calendar year that was. Those who pay at the end of the year pay their entire insurance and it says that it applies from September 2003 to September 2004. They live in good faith that they have paid for one year. Doesn't the Council of State think this is a little unfair treatment for ordinary people?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e700	Well, if it had been like that, it would have been unfair, but I've just answered the opposite.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e705	How much does the Council expect him to charge the drivers further? First, you have a $40 million win. kr here, and then you get a win by that some have to pay twice.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e710	The question is based on a misunderstanding. There is no gain in this by drivers being burdened twice. No one has to pay a double fee. The administrative savings of 40 million. kr that we no longer pay insurance companies to manage the scheme, but do it in a more efficient way by combining it with the annual collection of the annual fee, is made available through the budget, and it has been decided by the Stortinget how to distribute. It may also be said that there is a reduction in other taxes and charges made in the budget or that there are other good purposes for which the Progress Party is strongly committed – health or other important purposes.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e715	We are now dealing with the questions. 17 and 18.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e722	This question, from Harald T. Nesvik to the Minister of Economic Affairs and Trade, will be answered by the Minister of Finance on his behalf.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e725	I will be allowed to ask the following questions: «I St. pp. No 43 for 1993-94 on the transformation of the Telecom, it was stressed that the benefits would be as good if the employees were transferred to a pension fund other than that of the country. According to my information, this was also promised to employees' organisations during a meeting with the Minister for Transport. Telenor Pension Fund violates these assumptions by not regulating pensions in 2003. Pensioners, employees and their organisations feel cheated. Is it not reasonable for the State, as the principal owner, to hold Telenor's contracts?'
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e734	The issue of the regulation of the pensions of the members of Telenor Pension Fund with full earnings in the State Pension Fund has been assessed several times. During the autumn of 2003, the Minister of Economic Affairs and Trade received two questions on the matter, and in both answers the Council of State stated that this is not a matter for the Council of State in its role as the owner of the State’s shares in Telenor ASA. The State provided for in St.prp. No 43 for 1993-94 on the conversion of the Telecom into a limited liability company that benefits should be equal if the employees were transferred to a pension fund other than the State Pension Fund. The representative Nesvik has asked the Minister of Industry to address the matter directly with Telenor by virtue of his role as owner. The State of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade owns 62,63 p.m. of the shares of Telenor ASA. Telenor Pension Fund is an independent foundation in the Telenor Group. Thus, the State has no formal ability to instruct the foundation in relation to the regulation of pensions. Telenor Pension Fund, unlike the State Pension Fund, is subject to a new corporate pension law. This requires, inter alia: funds for the regulation of current pensions come from surplus funds. After a weak year for the entire life insurance industry in 2002, including the private pension funds, this also affects the scope of action of Telenor Pension Fund in relation to regulating pensions. Decisions concerning the remuneration and regulation of the pensions of employees and negotiations with the employees’ organisations are part of the management and management of the company. It is not appropriate for the State as a Telenor ASA shareholder to review such decisions on a commercial basis on the basis of the management or the board of directors of the company. Any requirements of Telenor Pension Fund members must therefore be addressed directly to Telenor Pension Fund.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e749	According to my information, employees in the group were dissented by management in voting on the regulation of pensions, and as a result it was not regulated. This must be seen in the context of what appears in St.prp. No 43: ‘In deciding on a future pension scheme, the Ministry assumes that the benefits and the conditions of contribution of the employees in total shall be at least as good as the current plan in the SPK.’;» That is, the Storting has actually made its decisions through this proposition as well as the conditions put there. Does the Minister of Finance not see problems here in future transformations, that the underlying assumptions are, in fact, not to be trusted?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e759	The representative himself has been involved in the adoption of rules on occupational pensions, as Telenor Pension Fund follows. I remember what I said in my first answer, that the state has no formal ability to instruct the foundation in relation to the regulation of pensions. I must finally say that I am a little surprised at the question, considering that it is asked by a representative from a party who has repeatedly stressed that the state should act as a professional owner even where one owns large shares in companies, or in whole-time companies. A professional owner may not enter and review the board of directors in individual cases where the board complies with the applicable rules and guidelines.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e766	Just very briefly, because this is what this is all about, actually the Biggest assumptions in terms of transformation and what is actually going on in St.prp. No 43. So when it comes to what the Minister of Finance here refers to, whether or not to intervene with a private company, I just have to ask the question: does the Minister of Finance not feel that there is a special scheme here, because the decision on the conversion specifically addresses the pension benefits in the future, precisely against the size of the pensions in the State Pension Fund?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e771	Telenor is first not a private company, and second, the Council of State does not feel obliged to instruct an independent ASA where the State is not the sole owner, when the board takes decisions and organises its pension fund in line with the Storting’s other guidelines.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e779	This question will also be answered by the Minister of Finance on behalf of the Minister of Economic Affairs and Trade.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e782	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Council of State: «According to the Official Journal of Bergen 21/1-04, the development company Sarsia Innovation is ready with 45 new projects, but lacks capital. In the same article, Managing Director of the Bergen Business Council says that private investors are ready to invest more money if the State invests seed capital. There is reason to believe that the wording gives a good description of the situation in the other university environments as well. Will the Council of State agree that more state seed capital will be released, so that new ideas and projects can be realised?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e791	Seed capital is a critical factor in bringing forward innovative and innovative projects both within and outside university environments. The government has, through the removal of dividend taxes, the liquidation of the investment levy and changes in depreciation rates, facilitated increased access to private investment capital. The need to strengthen private Norwegian investment environments and increase access to private seed capital will also be central to the notified notification of changes in the tax system – the follow-up to the Skauge Committee. It is through better framework conditions for private owners that we can primarily strengthen investment in innovation projects. In addition, the Government proposed to grant 400 million in the current year’s budget. NOK in loans and SEK 100 million. in loss funds for a new nationwide regional seed fund. In the course of the budgetary procedure, the majority of the population asked for the funds for this fund to be integrated into the four regional seed funds adopted in the revised national budget for 2003. The funds shall mainly invest in the area of regional policy. It is now working to put investors in place for the new funds. However, it will take more than one year for them to be operational, including: as a result of the fact that the scheme has to be approved by the EFTA Surveillance Authority ESA. As regards the allocation of additional funds for seed capital, the Government will assess this in the context of the State budget for 2005.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e804	I want to thank you for your answer. I wasn't completely overestimated that one has the necessary will to invest more seed capital, at least not to those parts of the country where there are projects ready to be realized. Norway is a small country, and therefore it is important that we see this gathering, and that a non-permitting seed capital to parts of the country where a non-project can be realized. One has to make sure that there is enough money for the more central parts of the country. Then is my question to the Council of State: Does the Council of State not believe that the realization of new ideas and projects in the central parts of Norway will also give positive repercussions for other parts of the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e813	The answer to that question is, well, I think that's absolute, but it's mutual. Today, good projects are also far from the central university environments that receive seed capital support and develop well. In a recent series of articles in Today's Business, which had the title Gasellene, which measured innovation projects that had grown particularly strongly, it was actually a main impression that it was not just around the big cities that we had strongly growing small businesses based on innovation and entrepreneurial activity. Luckily for that! As far as the necessary will is concerned, I must say that the Government has demonstrated the necessary will by proposing an increase in seed capital in the last two budgetary procedures in the Stortinget, i.e. both the revised national budget for 2003 and the 2004 budgetary procedure. It was the Storting itself who at last wanted to reserve this capital for the four regional funds, which in this case would exclude Bergen. But there is also a central fund. I will listen to the representative's wish to prioritise the nationwide fund for enlargement on the next occasion.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e820	Of course, there is a positive trend with all the seed capital being released. I think it's a very good investment, which the government will get back in terms of new jobs and growth in the economy, and thus also increase tax revenue. But it's important that this happens quickly. In fact, at least in this case, 45 new projects only in the university community in Bergen lack capital. There is no reason to believe that there is any particular example. Then my question is: does the Council of State not fear that it will take time for these projects to have enough capital, that one might thus risk these projects not being realised in Norway, but on the contrary being realised abroad?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e825	It takes time, but the main reason for that is conditions beyond the control of the Storting and the political system. Firstly, private equity shall be collected in addition to government loans and private equity shall not be amortised. It has to be lured out. So only when it's in place can the refuelling from the funds work. The second reason is that the scheme under the EEA Agreement has to be approved by ESA. It'll take time. And I record that the representative is a member of both parties, both because of the fact that the private capital has to act on a voluntary basis, and that we are a member of the EEA Agreement. So there we are in the same boat. I can mention that at a recent meeting with representatives from all the national colleges and universities, I got the same question. We have a lot of projects, it was said, around the university environment, waiting for funding. Now it is not necessarily the case that all good projects should be financed. The person who has to invest must assess it for himself. But I asked at that meeting that the representatives of the universities wrote to the Minister of Economic Affairs and Trade just to point out that there are special conditions around the universities that prevent them from getting money from the Seed Capital Funds. So this will be followed up in the best possible way.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e832	We go back to question 4.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e838	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Culture and the Church: ‘It follows from the Act of Threat Societies and others that priests and heads of free churches must be between 23 and 75 years of age. The corresponding age limit does not apply to priests in the Norwegian Church. Some freedoms want to use a pastor/understander over 75 years of age for various reasons. However, this is very difficult to achieve in the light of current legislation. Will the Council of State propose amendments to the law to make free churches equal to the Norwegian Church with regard to the age of the pastors/understanders?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e847	In the law of trust societies and the generalist of other § 24 it is called: ‘The person who is to be a priest or a believer in a registered trust society must not be less than 23 years of age and not more than 75 years of age. He must live an honorable life and have the ability to do his debts according to the laws." With the pastor or supervisor I promise the one who's going to perform public-law functions, such as weddings. The rules on age in the law on threat societies are mandatory, and the cork department or county can make exceptions. In the preliminary work on the law, one refers to the rules of the Norwegian Church, and it says: ‘It seems natural to have age limits for free church priests, too, which protect against immaturity and old age deterioration to some extent.’ Among other things, as a result of the intention of non-discrimination with the Norwegian Church, I have come to realize that it is necessary to take a closer look at this issue. The law on trust societies was adopted in 1969, that is, more than 30 years ago. Therefore, it is not obvious that there is a need to make changes. The Ministry of Culture and the Church will issue a hearing note during the spring, during which we will discuss the laws that can be changed so that, in exceptional cases, it will be possible to make exceptions to the age rules.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e871	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer, which was a strong response to the wishes expressed by some representatives of the civil society in Norway. You don't want a general exemption to apply in any case, but in some cases you can get into the situation that you can't actually afford to hire a full-time employee who is at the age required by the law and that you can use a pensioner. When these are not, as is stated in the preparatory work, marked by aggravation, they should be allowed to continue both to consecrate and to do the church services in the free church with which they naturally belong, in the same way that they have granted exemptions to people in the Norwegian Church. I appreciate the fact that the Council of State will do something about this already coming spring, and thank you for the attendance that this answer shows.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e880	There is nothing more to add. This I will follow up, and it is natural that it should be non-discrimination.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e885	Question 5 will be answered later, before question 12.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e892	I have the following questions for the Minister of Agriculture: ‘According to the publication in the newspapers of the United Nations on 12 and 13 January 2004, the payment of fees for approvals will result in a substantial increase in the cost level of Norwegian farmers, food shops, riding centre managers and other traders requesting approval from the Food Authority. This seems unreasonable in view of the food reform's intention to cost-effectiveise. What will the Council of State do to ensure adequate user financing and a level of costs that does not impede value creation?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e901	The principles for financing the Food Authority were discussed in St.prp. No 65 for 2002-2003 and in St.prp. No 1 for 2003-2004. A three-tier system was established based on payment by user groups for parts of the activities of the Food Authority. The user-based funding is divided into fees for specific benefits, supervision and control fees and general inspection fees. When introducing a fee for specific benefits, it is an important principle that no trader should pay more than the cost of the Food Safety Authority’s performance. This will be achieved by praising supervisory services in different classes of fees, where each class embraces a given number of hours, days or weeks. In determining the amount of the fee, no person shall pay more than the minimum number of hours, days or weeks in the class. If it appears that a single application needs less time than the lowest time indicated for the class of performance, the fee shall be reduced. This means that in the vast majority of cases, the fee is lower than the supervisory costs related to performance, and never higher than the cost of the Food Safety Authority related to performance. Fees for specific benefits are not otherwise unique to food management. Similar schemes exist in a number of other areas of society. Examples here are building case handling and issuing passports. It can also be mentioned that parts of food management in Sweden and Denmark are user-funded through similar schemes. Food fees will provide the Food Authority with a clear incentive to provide the services subject to fees in an efficient manner, because they are not paid to spend more than the necessary predetermined time. It is the Food Authority that shall determine the fees within the framework of the Storting’s decision on income for the Food Authority. The system of fees for specific benefits is largely new and there is a need to have a review with users before the charges for the different benefits are set. The location of the different performances in classes of fees will be done by means of a regulation established by the Food Authority. The Food Authority therefore has a consultation meeting today, where users are in direct dialogue with the Food Authority on the regulatory proposal. I feel confident that the Food Safety Authority will have an open dialogue with the user groups also on the practice of the fee scheme once it has been implemented. In the debate on the possible effects of the charging system, the importance of fees for the establishment and development of small-scale industrial activities has been stressed by several teams. When it comes to the establishment of activities that may require authorisation in several areas at the same time, I think it is right that the total fee should not exceed the supervisory costs of providing the services to a reasonable extent. I would also like to mention that the Food Safety Authority has pointed out to me that the various inspections that have entered the Food Safety Authority have had different practices with regard to approval requirements from the authorities. It is therefore intended to go through the different authorisation schemes in the light of a planned extended use of internal control as a supervisory approach. [[President clubs]] This may in the long term reduce the need and scope of separate authorisation schemes for authorities. [[The President clubs.]] It has been and remains a clear objective that the establishment of the Food Safety Authority should provide efficiency gains. I believe that some of the expected efficiency gains could be realised in 2005.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e920	The President asks that speaking time be respected — that is also the case for state councils.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e923	I thank you for the answer, which is quite elucidating, especially in relation to the two wordings in the nations. When one sees the production of fee shocks and long price lists with two-digit thousands for relatively simple services, does the Council of State think that the nation's headlines are more misleading than guidance, and unfortunate for both the agricultural and food industries, because one gives the impression that a closest gets a fee that is unmanageable and that will take a lot of the income surplus from two press industries? So the Council of State was also inside Agriculture Pluss, which is a field of activity that is important for agriculture to further develop. Will the bets be at such a level that it will not prevent the innovation that has so many offensive projects to stimulate in other fields?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e930	Yes, I can confirm that the questioner here says. The first look in the nation that led to all this attention was a lying look, it wasn't right, and it clears up the nation itself today by saying it was completely wrong. One can almost get the impression that the nation kept a cross of lies under the table when they first wrote it, and then they cancel it today, and that's how you've been written some pages and got a lot of attention, but it hasn't disclosed these questions very well. That is why I am pleased that it now seems to get out the right information from the Food Safety Authority, and that it is captured that we are talking about other prices and costs that it must be possible for the individual to bear in a reasonable way. We should also remember that as these are different areas, which are now coordinated in one supervision, there have been very different pricing policies on these services. Now you get a much fairer system, which everyone meets, and we'll be concerned with increasing efficiency and thus bringing down the costs of these services in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e935	My last question is about something that the Council of State was a little bit concerned with. In the examination of food oversight matters in the nutrition committee, there were two distinct efficiency gains that could result in reduced fees. One is the general gain by merging different supervision into one body, and at a previous time, the Council of State has had to have a saving potential of 10 pst. had passed through the year of establishment in 2004. The second matter raised by the Economic and Social Committee was that it applied to the meat levies. They may be four-five times higher than in Denmark, and we see an increase in the attention of the Minister of Agriculture in this field to reduce them. I would like to ask: does the Council see the possibility that these two fields may result in future savings on these fees as well?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e940	Let me start with the first one. We are working very hard to contribute to overall improvements in efficiency, because there is now a lot of supervision that becomes a single supervision, and that we can make the whole chain of supervisory tasks more effective by taking out the synergies on the cost side, but also by looking at whether there is a kind of duplication of work to other official control work. When a building is to be approved by the Food Authority, are there other bodies that also have an approval procedure? We can go over to – as I said in my answer – more internal control, where the individual says that we have now built after the drawings, and then you take for example. only random samples and may not be sent to each individual. – That kind of efficiency improvement. As far as meat inspection is concerned, I have been instructed by Stortinget to come back to how to increase efficiency and reduce the costs of the meat inspection that is taking place – that is, the veterinarian who is standing on the meat line and is looking for good food for us. That's what we're going to do, and that's what we've taken up with the industry, and it's about organizing the slaughterhouse business more efficiently, and that's what I'm going to get back to in the revised national budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e950	I have the following questions for the Minister of Agriculture: ‘In the context of agricultural cooperation, major restructuring and centralisation are taking place. Among other things, the board of TINE Meieriet Øst is now entering to lay down the Fosheim Meieriet in West Slider. Fosheim has a high value for industrial activities and jobs in the municipality and region. Buildde-Noreg will be lost for resources due to it. such centralisation. The state is investing a lot in agriculture as a district policy tool. Nevertheless, agriculture’s own cooperative activities are highly centralised.What is the Council of State’s assessment of this?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e960	Under the Main Agreement on Agriculture, agricultural organisations are responsible for implementing measures in accordance with the Agreement on Agriculture. In view of this, the agricultural cooperative organisations themselves have taken on important functions in the implementation of the Norwegian agricultural policy. In the milk sector, TINE is the market regulator, which implies a number of rights and obligations for TINE, including: that the company is obliged to receive and supply milk and that they are responsible for implementing market regulation in the milk sector. With regard to the organisation and restructuring of the TINE group, this is a matter that the State does not regulate through the agricultural contract system. This is a matter on which the owners, in this case the dairy farmers, have full power of decision. This implies that agricultural cooperatives in this field are assimilated to other private activities. Now that the board of TINE Meieriet Øst is going in to shut down the Fosheim Meieriet in West Slidre and rather to carry out further processing at other facilities in the East, I believe this is a matter that can best be assessed by the company's own owners. TINE must, however, take into account the obligations it has assumed as a market regulator in this respect. The changes in the market organisation for milk introduced from 1 January 2004 have facilitated increased competition in the milk sector. Increased competition could put TINE under increased pressure, which would require structural changes in order to meet higher efficiency and profitability requirements. Increased competition also makes it possible for new actors to establish activities in installations and sites on which it is based. These are the realities that TINE and the other actors in agriculture must take into account in the ongoing restructuring. It would therefore be a mistake for me to intervene in these processes.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e971	In a way, the Minister of Agriculture gave a clear description of the actual situation. Of course, it is right for the Minister of Agriculture to say that this is the agricultural cooperative's own assessment and responsibility. Nevertheless, much of the investment in agriculture in this country is based on regional policy considerations. One thing is that we want to produce good and safe food in this country, but that alone is not the reason for the relatively strong investment in agriculture. We want to use agriculture as an instrument to support the creation of living communities, jobs in the districts, cultural landscapes and so on. When one learns that the people of agriculture, who operate these agricultural cooperatives, are able to rationalize and centralize – based on the competitive situation and on economic conditions, which I understand – it becomes in a way a little paradoxical and inconsistent. It's kind of hard to understand the big investment in agriculture when they act in this way. I asked the Minister of Agriculture to assess this problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e980	I share the basic view that more than any other actors in the Norwegian business community should feel a stronger responsibility for society and for district development. One could actually make the reflection that there is a question of whether these should have activity in the big cities at all, whether they should not actually use their activity to strengthen the outskirts and districts. But my point is that this they have to decide for themselves. That's what our rules are. It is the owners, namely the dairy farmers, who must decide this. Fortunately, a lot has happened in the last couple–three years in this area. There has been another competitive situation, which TINE must also be concerned with, not only to make it more efficient, but also in view of the fact that someone can move into the facilities after them. The rule that TINE has used in the past to encroach on her daring dairies, that no one else can operate dairies there, is now not legal. That means that others can move in and do dairies. It is open to competition: other strong players can move in. I know that in this case there is now a local work up against the Q-meierines and others, to see if you can get a competitor to TINE to move in and give local jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e987	As the Minister of Agriculture points out, this must be decided by the agricultural cooperative itself. And the legislation is as the Minister of Agriculture describes. The question, however, is, when one sees what happens, whether one should not in one way have a review of the legislation and consider possible management of the agricultural cooperative. It is a little strange that what is happening in this sector should only be done on the basis of business assessments. However, if we had based farm economic assessments on Norwegian agricultural policy in general, we would have a completely different agriculture from what we have in this country. I am not in the forefront of the idea that one should in one way involve this sector in agricultural policy and into the discussion of any compensation mechanisms for this sector, precisely to take social and regional policy into account. As an opener to be held responsible for this – when handling the agricultural message ten years ago – pointed out that you should be responsible. It hasn't worked well enough, and I think there might be a reason for a new review.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e994	I probably have a slightly different approach to these questions. The agricultural agreement and all the other agricultural policy tools we have must, in my opinion, be about strengthening primary producers and the scattered settlement in this country, represented by primary producers. Then we must also have an efficiency requirement against the agricultural industry. The means of increasing the activity of the agricultural industry around the districts is increasing competition, so that when large cooperative organisations want to close down, for example. in Vestre Slide, they know – and that's new – that a competitor can move in behind them. That's what makes a new assessment come into the TINE control room, whether one dares to take the chance to lay down, or whether we lose the producers in such a rich and important milking area as Slide. The most important thing I think is that TINE sees centralisation causing them to lose market shares in relation to the primary producers, and that is the line I intend to strengthen. That is why I welcome the new milking system, which is now opening up to competition, and which means that there are people who are actually interested in moving into this plant when TINE had to move out.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e1006	I have the following questions for the Minister of Justice: ‘Drugs are a major problem in prison in Turkey. By means of mobile phones, new supplies are planned to be smuggled. Prisoners call drug users outside the prison area and decide exactly where and when to throw drugs over the fence. Even if the phones are retracted, new phones are smuggled in by visitors. Prison officials will have re-established a system in which mobile phones can be confiscated for good. What will the Council of State do in the matter?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e1015	I can assure the representative Hedstrøm that I am taking the drug problems seriously in Norwegian prison. A number of necessary measures aimed at prisoners and visitors have been taken as important contributions to the fight against drugs in prisons. The Ministry of Justice action plan on enhanced control efforts to combat the drug problem in prison has been incorporated into the new Penal Code. This involves, in addition to the continuation of previous measures, new control measures such as: use of a drug dog against any person in the prison area, visitation of visitors with consent, detention of visitors pending the arrival of the police on suspicion of smuggling, increased right to take urine samples of prisoners, the right to take blood samples of prisoners and the right to X-ray of the visitor’s assets. The control provisions of the Criminal Enforcement Act mean that mobile phones are not allowed in prisons with a high level of security or in prisons with a lower level of security, such as: Drunken City Prison. Mobile phones shall be stored in the power storage facility in the prison. Visitors may not take or deliver items to prisoners during the visit without special authorisation and since mobile phones are not allowed, they must be delivered before the visit takes place. Violation of these rules can have a wide range of consequences, both for the prisoner and for the visitor. Visits may be refused and prisoners may meet with different reactions to breaches. Furthermore, prisoners may be transferred from lower-security prisons to high-security prisons and denied parole. Access to confiscation of objects for the benefit of the State Treasury has not been continued in the new Penal Code. Now objects such as mobile phones can be detained and returned at the latest on release, if the item is not seized under the Criminal Procedures Act or the Criminal Code. The background for the change was, among other things, legal certainty considerations and that the overall purpose of getting objects out of prison circulation is maintained by a temporary detention order. The Penal Code is new, and the practicalisation and appropriateness of the individual provisions are assessed on an ongoing basis. This is not least the case with the use of instruments to prevent drugs from entering Norwegian prisons. Overall, I believe that existing legislation with comprehensive control measures provides appropriate instruments to prevent the smuggling of various illegal articles, such as: mobile phones and drugs. The control activity is high, and numerical material shows a decreasing trend in the proportion of positive urine samples. The trend has been continuous for four years, suggesting that the responses are effective, especially in relation to the growing problem of drug use in society. Finally, I would like to stress that visitors represent an important resource for prisoners and their rehabilitation. Most visits are carried out without failure, while there is a sense that visits increase the chances of smuggling illegal goods and drugs. The balance between safety and rehabilitation considerations poses major challenges for those admitted to prison, not least in terms of resources. I can assure the representative Hedstrøm that the challenges are well addressed, both in Tragstad prison and in the other prisons, but they will be continuously assessed in relation to the fight against drugs both inside and outside Norwegian prisons.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e1032	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I am convinced that the Minister is taking the drug problem seriously and is doing a great deal to address it in the best possible way. But as it works today, it's not good enough. Prisoners in Turkey are opposed to this temporary seizure, for the telephones can be given to the visitors. It's not that they can just return them to the prisoners, but they can, for example, Take them out and throw them over the fence at a certain time. This is why drug crime, with the transport of drugs over the fence, continues in Tragstad prison and creates problems. We also have other prisons, e.g. Ringy prison, where there is evidence that serious criminal acts are planned using mobile phones. There are electronic devices that allow you to interfere with mobile signals. But the regulation is that the mobile companies that have the frequency permits cannot be stopped because of the law. [[President clubs]] Do you want to do as in Sweden and assess a change in the law so that you can disrupt these mobile signals and thus achieve that criminal acts cannot be carried out as they are today?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e1041	The President requests that the speaking time be respected.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e1044	As my answer showed, there are a number of measures that are needed to ensure that people do not break rules and cheats. I've been to Turkey prison, and it's an excellent prison. There is a good attitude among those who work there, and I have the impression that it is also working properly. I have explained that we have a number of tools to stop the introduction and use of drugs. One of the tools is to hold mobile phones back. And then they're held back, so you can't bring them in. But if you first use your imagination, you can get mobile phones quite easily, and you can get them in many ways. That is the sum of measures, that it is not allowed, that it is checked, and that it has consequences, which are crucial here. The introduction of other measures, including: Of course, in relation to high-security prisons, which have been a topic, I will look at. That's one of the things I did when I said we wanted to look at the Penal Code. But once again, it is the sum of measures that ensure the effectiveness of control. It turns out that drug control has been good, and it has also proved to be effective. Of course, I want to look at the sum of measures. I'm not interested in anyone cheating on these measures. That's my basic attitude.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e1053	I thank the Council of State for the answer. In Sweden, therefore, the need to open the door to disrupt mobile signals in prisons has gone further and, as far as I know, they have good results. It is felt that something is being achieved in addition to the other measures outlined by the Council of State. We know that the cell phones are getting smaller and smaller, they contain less metal, etc., they can be hidden in the body's cavity and are harder to detect with detectors. I don't know if the Council of State is considering other measures to bring this undead to life, so that you don't have this cell phone usage in our institutions to such an extent as today. Because we have to be aware that there is a awareness of this, among the prisoners.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e1062	After visiting 40 out of 41 Norwegian prisons, I have seen that not all prisoners are of the kind described here, but there are some who are. Some places, e.g. in an open place such as Hassel prison in Buskerud, the prisoners know that if someone violates the rules, it will have consequences for everyone. It keeps a kind of control. It's positive in the sense that people actually get something left to zone. It's also positive with what we're talking about here. And that's the sum of the measures that count. But that in some criminal environments there are people with university degrees in criminal activity, there is no doubt about it. In this way, those responsible for the implementation of penalties must also take this into account. I mean, we do. I'm going to look at all the good measures that can be practised, when we look at how the law works for those who abuse its purpose. For those who don't, that's okay. But, as I said, there are a number of control measures that have just been implemented to combat drugs. The essence of the question to the representative Hedstrom is that someone doesn't care about it. Then we get to be aware of it, and then we get to think creatively about it. That's what I promise to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e1076	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Justice: ‘The Council of State considers that the further closure of Länsmann’s offices/services, such as in Rødøy, Gildeskaal, Andøy and Moland Länsmann’s office in Eydehavn, is in line with an overall Judicial Committee’s leadership at the beginning of the budget. [[2003-2004]] S. No 4 on page 42, where the Committee states that phase II of the police reform must not lead to the closure of posts?' [[lensman’s offices/politics]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e1083	The Police Directorate has informed me that the Storting's clear premise on this point has been communicated to the police officers. I also refer to St.prp. No 1 for 2003-2004, page 103, where the Ministry prepares the following: ‘However, the number of service locations shall be maintained in order to ensure proximity to the public.’;» [[lensman's offices/politics etc.]] In order to ensure local influence, the process in these cases has been set up in such a way that all proposed amendments are drawn up after a broad review and involvement in each police district. Municipalities likely to be affected by the changeover have been provided with detailed information and have also submitted their assessment of the proposals sent by police officers at the hearing. Once the police district has completed its proceedings, the police chief’s proposal is sent to the Police Directorate. In the Directorate, the proposal is subject to a new and thorough assessment, after which the case is sent to the Ministry of Justice with a recommendation. The final decisions are taken by the King in the Council of State or by the Ministry, depending on the extent and nature of the case. There is thus a thorough quality assurance and assessment in this process, which prevents decisions from being taken contrary to the decisions of the Government and the Stortinge. With regard to the officers' offices that the representative Ellingsen specifically mentions, only Andøy Länsmannskontoret is part of a concrete proposal sent to the Police Directorate. The proposal envisages the establishment of the Länsmannskontoret in a geographical region where one of the offices would like to coordinate administrative tasks. There is therefore no proposal to close the Andøy Länsmannskontoret. The evaluations by the other mentioned officers’ offices have not been completed and have not been sent to the directorate. Many municipalities have asked for an extension of the consultation period in order to deal with the proposals of the police chief. We have to let the local process here go as planned, so that the municipalities get their say. I cannot draw conclusions in these cases until the proposals are available, but I can only refer to what I said in the introduction. In his report, p. On 31 December 2003 to the Police Directorate, the other Chief of Police in the Salten Police District, including Rødøy and Gildeskal Länsmannskontoret, states that the position and arguments of the municipalities will be taken into account before the final proposals are forwarded to the Directorate. The same is true of Moland County Länsmannskontoret in Agder Police District. Also in Agder, the feedback from the respective municipalities is now awaited before any proposals are forwarded to treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e1103	I thank the Minister for the answer so far. I understood the minister there that he confirmed that no loner offices should be closed, and I think that is positive. In view of that, I think this is still about the economy of the sector as a whole. I registered that the minister was just talking about that proximity to the audience was important. I believe that the police and officers' seat feels that there is a great need to manage to maintain the obligations, desires and ambitions of the establishment. Yesterday, there was a larger look-up in Troms, in Nordlys, where the police officer in Tromsø, Truls Fyhn, went out and said that drug sharks and others are getting away easily, because you don't have the resources to follow up the case. The First State Attorney in Troms and Finnmark immediately says that the appropriations for the police are now a disaster. In the course of this extension, my question to the Minister of Justice must be: Does the Minister of Justice think that the prosecution and the police do not understand what they are actually doing, since they make such statements, or does the Minister feel that today's framework is liberal and sufficient?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e1114	There were a lot of questions here. Firstly, what has been said about phase 2 of the police reform, and which I have quoted, is quite correct. Part of it is also that it is fully possible and even desirable to be able to centralise administrative functions, and it will be assessed in many places. And then there's places where you don't want to do it, like that. in Sogn and Fjordane, where I was recently, where they have a different model. All of these models have to be on the table. The conclusion is that audience-oriented activities should not be discontinued, as the question put it. With regard to the second part of the question, I have never concealed that we have a tight budget, but I have discussed it with the police officers present. The police will always have priorities. I'm going to follow what's being said. I am aware of, among other things: When I look at the police's numbers last year, they've done an impressive job. The number of reports is reduced in a number of areas, but especially on the drug side, the police will most often have to weigh what to do with users and what to do with the backers and the people involved in the marketing. All today's priorities are to go after those who are marketing, and the backers. That's a line I support.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e1123	I thank you again for the answer. Since the police's activities include: To a large extent governed by the police law, I will take the freedom to refer a little from it. Section 1 on responsibilities and objectives states that ‘the State shall provide the police service that society needs’. Section 2 on police duties states that ‘police shall protect the person, property and common property and protect all legitimate activities’. It also states that ‘prevent crime and other violations of public order and security’ and ‘discover and stop criminal activity and pursue criminal offences’. Then it becomes a paradox to me that the minister, as he just said, believes that the police are doing a good job. But here it becomes a strict priority. My question is then: When the police obviously cannot do the job they want to do, does the Minister of Justice feel that he indirectly contributes to the crime by being responsible for a sector that obviously does not have the appropriations they strictly need?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e1136	The draft budgets submitted and approved and controlled by the Stortinget are, of course, based on the fact that both the police law, from which it is quoted, and the Norwegian penal code, are to do a job. Some things are easier to figure out than others. The police have, for example, a very high clearance rate of violence. That's very good. It's also a priority of the police. Many forms of profit crime are much more difficult, including: because there is not always evidence or a known perpetrator. The police are working on this, among others. in its method development, and my impression is that they're good at achieving results here. Then there can always be a debate on the size of the budget framework and the budgetary framework will be laid down in the Grand Duchy. The representative of Ellingsen had an alternative proposal on behalf of his party. That is a perfectly fair position. But I want to insist that the Norwegian police do a good job. I have the impression that they also improve it in the development of new police methods, among others. in order to take the pay-as-you-go. But it is not to hide on – I have said that in the budget debate, and I repeat it – that we are running with a tight budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e1154	This question has been raised.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e1161	This question, from Eva M. Nielsen to the Minister for Children and Family Affairs, will be answered by Minister for Church and Culture Valgerd Svarstad Haugland.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e1164	I ask the following questions for answer: ‘Extra child benefit for families in North Troms and Finnmark is a central instrument for ensuring housing and recruitment in the region. The EFTA Surveillance Authority, ESA, now claims that this scheme is contrary to EU rules. The ESA considers that Norway has to pay the supplement of child benefit also to parents working in the region who have children in an EU country, otherwise the scheme must cease. What will the Council of State do to ensure this important means of regional policy?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e1173	I will answer the question on behalf of the Minister for Children and Family Affairs. Under the EEA Agreement, Norway is bound by EU social security rules. It is a fundamental principle of these rules that you should be safe in the country in which you work. Thus, persons living in the EEA area who work in Norway will be insured in Norway and entitled to social security benefits, including: Child's back, from here. Since 1989, a supplement has been paid in the child benefit for child benefit recipients in Finnmark and Nord-Troms, the so-called Finnmark supplement. Today, the supplement amounts to NOK 3840 per person. Children per day years. The Finnmark supplement is part of the Nord-Troms and Finnmark package, which was established among others. in view of the negative trends in the population and business in the area. The supplement to the child benefit shall be a subsidy to those who actually live in the action zone. It is therefore a condition for the payment of the Finnmark supplement that both the child and the person receiving the child benefit live and stay in Finnmark or Nord-Troms. Persons who work in the zone but who live outside have thus not been paid the Finnmark supplement. As the representative Nielsen refers to, the Norwegian authorities have received a supplementary letter from the EFTA Surveillance Authority, ESA. The ESA claims that the right of residence of the Finnish mark-up zone is contrary to Norway’s obligations under the EEA Agreement, and therefore considers that EEA citizens working in the action zone must be paid Finnish mark-up for their children even if they are not resident in the zone. We have to answer ESA by 19 March. It's too early to say what we're concluding with. In a letter dated 21 January, the Minister for Children's Affairs and Family Affairs answered Ballo's question in writing on the same matter. It is clear from this letter that there appears initially to be good grounds for maintaining the requirement to settle, but that this needs to be carefully assessed in the light of the views expressed by ESA. I can reassure the representative Nielsen that it is not about removing the Finnmark supplement, but perhaps paying the supplement to someone more than today.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e1190	I thank you for your answer. That was a good answer. It is a paradox that we have now come up with a situation in which, if they work in the action zone, foreigners may be entitled to an allowance for child welfare, while the Nordics who work in the same zone do not want the same entitlement. It's a paradox that you might want to consider. In St.meld. No 8, Rich diversity in the north. On the action zone in Finnmark and Nord-Troms, these issues are not addressed. The message is now being processed in Stortinget, and it may be a bit confusing what is going to happen here. Can the Council of State answer why it has not affected this issue with ESA in the message, since it was familiar with this when it was presented?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e1201	It is a little difficult for me to answer such a detailed question to a department I am not responsible for. I can't do that. But what is quite clear is that the Ministry of Children and Family will have to respond to ESA by 19 March. The answer must be given to ESA before 19 March, so it is likely that it will be clarified before the message is to be processed here in Stortinget. I am also not fully informed about the schedule of that message, but I assume that it will not be completed so soon.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e1206	That's right. You can get the result of the Storing in any case before this message is processed. I am aware that this only applies to social security benefits, but we also have a tax advantage for the action zone. I just want to make sure that the Government has a strategy for meeting this pressure, because it can be called into question both by the tax advantage and by payments in connection with study funding. Does the Government have a strategy to meet any other requirements of ESA affecting the same action zone?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e1211	I have to answer the general question. In general, the government wants to hold on to the benefits that Nord-Troms and Finnmark have received, with a background in the old problem of people moving from the continent. There is also one of the basics of the big message that representatives Nielsen mentioned in previous follow-up questions. Then we'll have to take the fights with ESA that we get. We see that it is not only when it comes to the action zone, but also when it comes to other areas, that we are forced to change our practice, because ESA requires it from us. We fight as best we can to keep the special benefits that Nord-Troms and Finnmark have today, and we also say in the big news that we might consider new ones. But then we're going to have to align ourselves to the requirements that ESA comes up with, and that's where we're going to be very similar to all the previous governments.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e1218	We go back to question 5.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e1225	This question, from the representative Trond Giske to the Minister for Culture and the Church, will be answered by the Minister for Education and Research who directs him.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e1228	I have the following questions for the Minister of Culture and the Church: ‘After the disappearance of the earmarked state subsidy for the cultural schools and the ceiling for the cultural schools, prices are greatly increased in many places, including Oslo. This can result in many children losing their offer because only those with the best finances can afford it. This may also lead to a deterioration in the recruitment of professional cultural life in the future. What will the Council of State do with this?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e1237	I am of the opinion that the municipalities as a primary principle are best able to allocate resources within the municipal service provision. In line with the government's view of the development of local democracy and municipal autonomy, I find it natural that the municipalities themselves set the payment for various offers in the municipal music and cultural schools. The Swedish Cultural School Council and the County Council of Southern Trøndelag examined the changes in parental pay in the music and cultural schools in 2004. 180 of the 386 municipalities surveyed increased parental pay, and a preliminary summary shows an average increase of 17 pst. It can also be stated that the parental payment rate of up to 1 January 2004 was not adjusted since 1993. NOK 1 600 in 1993 is NOK 2 093 in 2004. Furthermore, increased parental pay could contribute to increased capacity in municipal music and cultural schools, which has actually taken place in about 80 pst. of the 20 experimental municipalities where the grant became part of the framework in 2000. However, it is premature to say something about the effect of any increase in parental pay on the provision of music and cultural education in the other municipalities. The formulation of cultural schools in the Culture Communication is based on the general experience that the municipal music schools have been and are important in the recruitment of talents for professional music life in Norway, which must be said to be very high in several areas, including in international contexts. The expansion of the music schools to include artistic expressions other than music provides a basis for supposing that they have had the same positive impact on larger parts of art and culture. However, I see no reason to believe that framework funding, which means that local democracy will have more influence over the design of the offer, will weaken the future recruitment of cultural life.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e1250	I thank you for your answer. I think it is alarming that the Minister of Culture, to whom my question was addressed, and I have also stressed that there was a sense that it was addressed to her, will not answer. But it is commendable that the Minister of Education takes the heavy job of explaining the huge price increases we get for the cultural schools. 17 pst. is dramatically much more than the general price rise, and it is not necessary to have much economic insight to establish that the higher price gives lower participation. Now, against the Labour Party's votes, the earmarked grant to the cultural schools has been removed. That train has passed, so this is in itself no longer the Minister of Education's table. My question is about how this will affect the cultural life of the future in Norway, because fewer children and young people in cultural schools will result in fewer jobs being recruited to the professional cultural workplaces in the future. It worries me, and we have to find countermeasures against it. If the Minister of Education feels competent to say something about the countermeasures in the field of culture, I would like to deepen it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e1259	I believe that the representative Giske is drawing fast conclusions. A price increase of 17 pst. is not more than the general price increase but less than the general price increase. So there has been no price increase since 1993, and if you adjust for what has happened since 1993 in terms of price rise, even 17 pst. within the general price increase. I also think he concludes too quickly when he says that it will lead to lower participation without further delay. You might think so, but the problem today has been that there has been too little capacity. Being able to increase prices means that municipalities are more able to influence the design of the offer and allow them to offer a larger capacity, which may allow more people to participate. I think this is one of several important measures. I also believe that what is happening in the field of art and culture at school, the ordinary school, is very important for recruiting for professional music and culture in Norway. But I don't think it's evidence to say that this will weaken capacity or quality.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e1271	I thank you again for the answer. 17 pst. And if you're raining a long way back, you can get low enough per cent. year, but price rises actually apply from 2003 to 2004. Last year the price was $1,600, and this year the price will be 17 pst. higher. Tonight we get this price rise. It is clear that this can affect the possibility of participation of children in families with poor finances. Not all municipalities have the same situation as Oslo, with long queues. I also want to ask the Council of State as a party politician who actually belongs to the district party in Oslo that rules the Oslo City Council, whether it is a wild policy from the Right that the cultural school has an increase of 60-70 pst. from 2003 to 2004, and whether there is an offensive initiative in a city that wants to call itself a European city of culture.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e1280	I have to repeat that prices have been still since 1993, and that 17 pst. is thus less than the general price increase since 1993. Nevertheless, it is true that the representative Giske says that when you regulate prices that way and then stop doing so, such an increase in prices may have to happen overnight. But that's the price you pay to run a policy that strongly regulates the municipal sector, both in terms of what they can offer, what capacity they can hold, and what prices they can take. In general, I believe that we should pay less attention and override the municipal sector less, because then I think they can better adapt the offers to local conditions. I think that's what's happening. Within these 17 psts. there are major differences. It varies from an increase of 75 pst. in Våler municipality in Østfold to a reduction of 100 pst. in Gulen municipality in Sogn and Fjordane. I have not visited or studied these municipalities, but there may be evidence that it has been quite far from how local politicians have thought it should be, both in terms of the design of the offer, the capacity and the price, and that it is now adapted to local conditions, so that more children have the opportunity to benefit from this offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e1293	I have the following questions: ‘The aim of grants for primary school stays is to stimulate municipalities to provide all pupils with a primary school stay. It is an additional financing of an addition to ordinary teaching. In the 2003 budget, the grant was earmarked. In 2004 it is in the municipality's framework grant. I expect that the state's contribution is intended to apply to all primary school students, including those in independent schools. What is done to ensure that pupils in independent schools receive annually the same amount as students in public owned school?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e1302	The question concerns the calculation of the rate base for independent schools. The grant to stand-alone schools is based on the average public school expenditure, cf. the law of free school. The 2004 rate base has been calculated on the basis of municipal resource use for schools reported by COSTRA. In order to take account of the fact that there are accounting figures for two years back on time, the basis of which is based on price and salary adjustments. Legal and regulatory changes are also taken into account. For example, 2004: the basis of assessment adjusted with an estimated effect of the new general VAT compensation law. Adjustments are also made to the rates due to increases in the number of hours spent in primary schools from the autumn of 2004. Thus, the rate base for the independent schools is calculated mainly on the basis of municipal accounts figures and not on the basis of the budget line for the municipal sector. This means that changes in municipal school resource use are first reflected in the rate base of independent schools two years later. Camp school stays are not a statutory activity. The increase in the grant for clay school stays in the autumn of 2002 and in the spring of 2003 was part of the overall financial envelope for the municipal sector. The effect of the 2003 allocation on municipal school expenditure will be reflected in the 2003 accounting figures used to calculate the subsidy base for the independent schools in 2005.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e1311	The Council of State believes that the 60 million. For camp school stays that were earmarked in the 2003 budget, were only earmarked for public school students? Does the Council of State really believe that pupils in public and independent schools should be treated in a completely different way in the case of camp schooling?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e1316	I think it's a good system that the independent schools get government grants, if they're approved for it, as a proportion of the average cost of public school. Of course, that share can be 100 pst. in principle, but it is not currently in Norway. I believe that it is clearly fairest that the independent schools receive a share of actual expenditure in public schools and not budgeted expenditure. That is, you have to rely on accounting figures. It will have the effect of receiving a grant for a year based on two-yearly accounts. It has been so that students in public schools have gone to camp school. It is not a statutory activity, but a proportion of students in the public school have gone to camp school at all times. There has been expenditure on municipal schools, and it is then on the basis of which the independent schools are supported.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e1323	At best, this can be interpreted in such a way that stand-alone schools get some money two years off, two years after the students who were in charge of camp school leave the independent school. Will the Government consider a reconversion of the grant scheme to ensure that students in independent schools receive the same amount of crown in the current year for camp school stays and an unabated amount of crowns?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e1330	I have no plans to propose a fundamentally different system to grant grants to independent schools that are approved for it. This has recently been dealt with in the Storting and was given a majority. Just this because the grant basis was supposed to be based on accounting figures, I can't remember that there was any discussion about it at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e1339	‘Public school is one of the most important venues for meeting places between children from different cultures and beliefs. One of the major challenges facing society is to include, create understanding, cohesion and tolerance. We now see a bloom of Christian private schools in Norway. Does the Council of State consider this to be a positive development and will the Council of State take action to prevent children from being isolated and not being part of cultural diversity?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e1346	After the government change in 2001, 13 new independent primary schools have been approved for Christian purposes. Schools cover per cent. October 2003 total approx. 200 students and thus no significant change in the proportion of students attending independent schools in Norway, and especially not independent Christian schools. The right to establish schools outside the public school system is a fundamental democratic right. I refer to the UN Convention on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, where Article 13 gives all parents the right to choose school for their children in accordance with their own moral and religious beliefs. The former private school law, now the law on stand-alone schools, also makes it possible to obtain support for such schools under certain conditions. Since there may be cases where there appears to be a conflict between the rights of children under the Children’s Convention and the right of parents to choose primary education in accordance with the faith in which they wish to raise their children, Article 29 of the Children’s Convention is Article 29. 1 now reproduced in the purpose paragraph of the Law on Secondary Education. This implies that it is emphasised in the purpose paragraph that the training of all fresh oils, inter alia: shall aim to develop respect for other cultures and prepare the student for a responsible life in a free society, in agreement with and friendship between all peoples, national and religious groups and those belonging to indigenous peoples. This is new in relation to the former private school law. In addition, the first paragraph of Sections 2 to 3 of the Law on Free Schooling states that independent primary schools must follow the curriculum applicable to public primary schools or curricula which otherwise provide pupils with «qualifying training». When assessing whether a primary school provides «qualifying training», it is provided, among other things. emphasising that training should contribute to providing students with a basis for making independent choices. It is therefore important that schools draw impulses from the local environment and that students become familiar with different environments. Primary schools which are unable to demonstrate that they will also provide pupils with «smooth training» or the other statutory requirements for quality are not recognised by the law. All the parties to the Stortinget have wanted public support to be given to religious schools in order for the right to choose such a school to be real to all. I am sure that all parties also see the potential problems and dilemmas of such a policy, but that fundamental democratic rights, such as that. the freedom of religion and the right to choose a school must prevail. In order to avoid problems and strong segregation trends, we need, among other things, to: make strict demands on quality and content, as I have now experienced, exercise good oversight and have a good, inclusive and diverse public school, as is the situation in Norway today. As is the case elsewhere in Norway, I cannot see that the establishment and operation of Christian independent primary schools implies the need for measures to prevent children from becoming isolated and not becoming part of cultural diversity.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e1361	As the Council of State said, 13 new Christian private schools have been approved since the Council of State joined. The Norwegian giant has implemented the Children's Convention. That means that by law we have strengthened children's rights. Article 14 of the Children’s Convention states that children and young people have freedom of religion and freedom of expression. I believe that the Council of State unilaterally focuses on the rights of parents. Through the Redd Barna's Go On project, which the state council itself is funding, many children and young people in sects and by going to so-called sectarian schools have been excluded from the wider common environment. They have been isolated and thus had major problems. Prevention is important. In what way will the Council of State in the future place greater emphasis on children's rights?`
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e1372	I have to remind you that the Swedish law of free school was against because they wanted to keep the old private school law, has incorporated the Children's Convention in contrast to the old private school law. Moreover, there is no one in this room, as far as I can remember, who has foreshadowed that it is not the parents who have the primary responsibility for the education and training of their children. However, I agree with the representative Jensen that there may be dilemmas and problems associated with that type of school. But I have not actually registered that there is any party in this room that has intended to go away from a policy in which one allows religious schools to be established. That is likely to be impossible under international conventions. But I have also not registered any party that wants to go away from a policy where it is possible to provide public support to such schools. It has been in the old private school law that so to speak all the parties here on the Stortinget supported. So there was a majority, who didn't include SV, who wanted to change this and get us a free school law instead, like, among other things. incorporates the Children’s Convention and imposes strict requirements on its content and quality. So the dilemmas that the representative Jensen points to, I also have a keen eye on. I am most concerned that the public school should be so good that everyone feels included there. But I can't see that SV has presented any alternative to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e1381	Even Bishop Olav Kryvesland is concerned about the increase in the number of Christian private schools. He says, among other things: that Norway is becoming a multicultural society with many religions. In Bergen, Living Words operates the largest Bible school in the country plus primary, secondary and secondary schools. They also plan to establish a college, i.e. a training from cradle to grave. Quam in Hardanger, Trondheim and a number of other municipalities have said no to the establishment of Christian private schools in their municipality. In the context of the new private school law, it has been said that if this entails long-term and significant changes for the municipality, the local authorities' statements in these cases should be emphasised. My question to the Council of State will then be: How will the Council of State deal with such objections from the municipalities, since the Council of State has repeatedly said that this should be adapted to local conditions and that local self-government should be strengthened?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e1392	As the representative of Jensen probably remembers, it was part of the new law on free schooling that we attach great importance to the views of the municipalities when deciding on post-school applications. It'll be done. It will not be the Council of State that decides these applications, and it was also part of the change that this can be decided by the administration. It will be the new Education Directorate that is dealing with these applications. Since I cannot ask questions back, I hope we can refer the questions that are being asked to a later debate. With the criticism that is raised against the current government regarding religious schools, I think you're far above targets. The religious schools have been protected by a unanimous growth, and it was the privileges of these schools, among other things. SV would keep it when we dealt with the law of high school.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e1399	We skip question 14, as the representative Heidi Sørensen is not present in the room.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e1405	I have a question for the Minister for Fisheries: ‘Many indicate that the linear fishermen will switch to other operating modes after the self-rescue is removed. This also removes a first-class raw material from the market. I mean, budget-inner. S. No 8 says a majority among others. that they ask the Government to monitor closely the development of the use of funds from the fisheries agreement and, if necessary, return to the Storting if the situation so warrants. [[2003-2004]] Will the Council of State refer the matter to the Storting against the background of the situation that has arisen?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e1414	There was no room for continued support to the lineage centres in this year's fisheries agreement. We prioritised leadership grants, guarantee tickets and self-afraid, as Stortinget asked us to do. At the same time, line caught fish are mainly quality fish. It is therefore important that there is a linear fishing operation and that the fishing industry uses the price mechanisms contained in the minimum price system by paying the best price for quality fish. We have followed the situation, as Stortinget asked us to do, and I have assessed it so that the lineage supplement for handicrafts is not the only instrument that can stimulate line fishing. That's why I introduced before the weekend my own bait quotas for Norwegian herring herring, sieving and mackerel to remedy the situation for the linefish. This means that 750 tonnes of Norwegian springing herring herring, 250 tonnes of sej and 750 tonnes of mackerel are set aside for bait in 2004. Quantities shall be deducted from the Norwegian quota and shall not, as such, limit the individual vessel to catch the bait quotas. The system of quotas for baits will, in our opinion, provide fishermen with lower quality baits and thus contribute to improving the profitability of both land-based liners and, not least, of the on-board liners. The responsibility for managing the use of bait quotas in 2004 has been allocated to the fisherman’s bait supply. I have requested that the catch and production of the bait quotas be tendered in order to ensure bait at the lowest price possible. The Agn supply has also for a long time wanted to obtain its own bait quotas. I agree with the Agn supply when they say that it can turn out to be a good offer to all the line fishermen, and I would also add, instead of a direct subsidisation of parts of the line fleet. The fish shall report to the Ministry by 1 December 2004 on the application of the bait quotas and the effect of the bait quotas in relation to the price of the bait to the fishermen. This is a scheme that we assume and expect to compensate for the loss of the grant to a greater or lesser extent. The effect of that is to be evaluated and will depend on the bait price that we can obtain.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e1427	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I can well see from the answer that the Council of State also sees that a new situation has arisen after the grant was removed, and that this is the reason for what has been done here. But I'm not so sure that this solves the problem for those who feed on line fishing. I'm really worried about losing the top-quality fish. When you also know that the big cuts in the lead grant now have consequences because more fish leave the country untreated, you should probably look at this again. Has there not been an unintended effect both in terms of the own contribution and in terms of the reduction in the management grant, by the fact that what has now happened has really happened?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e1434	Firstly, it has, for example: on the part of the Agn supply, a desire to have a system of bait quotas in place and thus bring prices down, which will be an important contribution to increasing profitability. Then it is that through the agreement we did not find that we would continue the direct subsidisation of the operation. This scheme will benefit both those who are automated and who operate line fishing. So I think it'll have the opposite effect of what's now being described. I also think it is far too far to say that the reduction in the lead grant – which will still be a significant lead grant – should now lead to a greater proportion of the fish being brought out of the country without any transformation. Secondly, it is very much up to the industry itself to use the price mechanism and promote the quality fish. It's line fishing in the first place. Here we are talking about both reduced costs and higher prices.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e1441	I do not see this as a subsidisation, but as an instrument both for maintaining coastal activities and for getting top quality on land. I interpret the Council of State so that what is now adopted is what is going to be done, and that the Council of State sees the situation so that he will not come back to the Stortinget, as requested by the majority in a note in the budget position. This must mean that we do not get this matter processed. Or could it be possible that if not before, then in the revised look at these instruments again?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e1448	As far as the fisheries agreement is concerned, I have followed up the Storting's priorities. It went on a leadership grant, a guarantee ticket and self-afraid, and we have followed up on that. In terms of bait, this is a follow-up. In retrospect, the extent to which this compensates for the former aid will be demonstrated. It may well be that this is a measure which has a greater positive effect on the whole of the linear fleet than the unilateral subsidisation of parts of the linear fleet. When we get evaluated, and as I told you, we're going to evaluate this scheme by the end of 2004, we're going to assess whether it provides a basis for getting back to the Stortinget. But if this turns out to be an equally good or better system, I don't think that there's any basis for raising a separate issue of bait subsidies in the Storting, as I understand you want. I guess we should have patience to see the evolution first.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e1459	I would like to ask the Minister for Fisheries the following questions: ‘Many coastal communities have made significant natural resources available for the development of farming. One main reason for this is that one will create jobs and economic development along the coast. However, more and more coastal communities feel that jobs are disappearing, while areas are still being disposed of. One example of this is Abelvær in Nord-Trøndelag. Will the Council consider introducing concession rules to safeguard coastal communities that provide natural resources, jobs and tax revenues?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e1468	The production of edible fish is, first of all, an industrial production that sells its product in an international market. We know that an estimated 95 pst. of the total Norwegian production of salmon last year was exported. The breeding industry is thus an important contributor to the value creation of Norway as a whole. In view of this, it is also necessary to emphasise that strange restrictions will weaken the competitive situation of Norwegian farmers. In particular, this will apply to those areas which most need to maintain jobs. So Norway is a high-cost country. Increasingly tougher international competition has contributed to a development in the importance of larger farms and more rational operations, linked to industry such as slaughterhouses, packaging and other activities. A more efficient production has increased the supply of fish on the markets, which has again lowered prices and has resulted in the need for more companies, including Fjord Seafood in this case, to restructure in order to ensure profitability and to ensure and maintain production in the sea. Unfortunately, restructuring has resulted in the closure of the salmon slaughterhouse at Abelvær. I am pleased to note that there are stakeholders who are now looking into whether there can be continued activity in the plant, and I hope that this will be the basis for them. I think it is important to take into account that what we now see of structural changes in the farming sector is a consequence of the fact that there is an international industry, an international development and the international conditions of competition that can secure jobs in rural areas. Therefore, it is not appropriate for the Government to introduce special Norwegian concession rules leading to the establishment of the shore-based industry. Such rules will impede the flexibility of the industry to ensure profitability. We know that unprofitable jobs create trauma in many communities already. It is therefore important to take into account that, as in this case, closure does not necessarily have consequences for the production of marine land. But we have also seen over a long period of time a development in which farms are becoming more and more automated, and provide fewer and fewer jobs. It may be a development that we do not like, but it is a virtue of necessity if we are to maintain such an important industry in Norway at all. It must be internationally competitive. Large employment is primarily linked to slaughter, processing, etc., not to the sea. There is no direct connection, as the questioner suggests.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e1477	I thank the Minister for Fisheries Svein Ludvigsen for his answer. I just want to say that I agree with a lot of what he said. I agree that we must compete in an international market. I agree that we should have profitable jobs along the coast as well. But I think it's a huge problem when some communities, where the most important resource is the coastline, the sea's edge, and where they have said that here we rate because we want to create a business in our own municipality, experience that because of various sales and restructurings, all the jobs that are essential for being able to live there will be lost. You've connected a lot of the areas on which it was possible to feed. I think a good example is Lovund, who I've had the pleasure of visiting several times, where one has had a local ownership that has flourished. Far out of the sea, a society has flourished because it has managed to take care of local resources and jobs on the island. You can almost get no further out in District Norway than Lovund. While it reaches e.g. As far as Leka is concerned in my own country, ownership of the resources has been lost. The owners have almost not left any jobs, and the island is struggling violently. I regret that the Minister for Fisheries is not willing to try to bring something back.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e1486	I don't want the villages, the fishing fleets or the Norwegian fishing industry so bad that we would impose strange regulations and burdens that would make them uncompetitive. It would weaken the businesses and be more damaging to the towns than what we now see. We must be careful and accept that this is an international industry that must have international competition conditions. Otherwise it gets worse in many fishing waters and not just in Åbelvær. That's the one. Otherwise, I agree that it is a wish that it be added to the creation of value and employment in the municipalities that dispose of land on the shores of the sea, or the blue field, for which I call it. It's through the operation we have at the plants, that we have that employment. It's not like that, and it's never been like that, that you had to have a salmon slaughterhouse to get a concession at all and get to take advantage of the area. What is really regrettable is that we do not have a market access that allows us to continue working in Norway. More are processing Norwegian salmon in Denmark and France than in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e1495	I just record that the Minister of Fisheries and the Government disagree with SV in this matter in relation to whether we should add some more leadership for how companies should be allowed to function, and that is an honest matter. It's a year and a half for elections, and then we might get a government change, and there'll be new people in government. That's why this becomes a matter that we're at least interested in pursuing further, because we think it's wrong that some coastal communities have almost zero left for giving up so much resources. I'm not saying that you're going to put a significant burden on those who've been given concessions, but they have to be able to have some side view when they're moving out of an area, that you're going to put something behind either in terms of money or jobs, so that these communities can build on something else.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e1500	I share the good wishes expressed here, but at the same time the representative says that he agrees with the Government that we cannot impose on the companies such conditions as could be desirable from a district policy approach. It is now necessary to decide whether to impose conditions of competition on this industry, which will make them lose further in international competition and that more enterprises and more communities are in need. I am convinced that the current government policy contributes to employment and increased value creation along the coast. The policy that is being asked for now will, unfortunately, cause further problems.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e1505	We go back to question 14.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e1511	I have a question for the Minister for Fisheries: ‘According to Finnmark Dagblad, the Swedish Coast Guard Agency has chosen to introduce required sailing leaders for dangerous traffic only on the route from North Cape to the border with Russia. Along the rest of the coast, oil tanks are free to choose a direction closer to land. The grounds of the coastal works are that normal traffic goes beyond 12 nautical miles and therefore there is no need for a navigational manager. Does the Council agree that it is wise to let the oil tanks themselves determine how close to the coast they will go?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e1520	Firstly, I am a little surprised that this comes as a surprise through a look-up in Finnmark Dagblad. This has been discussed in many contexts. It is not a clear answer as to whether hazardous cargo shipping should be taken as far as possible from the coast. The expansion of the territorial waters at the turn of the year is an important measure, and it gave us the space for action to increase control and regulation of the increasing traffic. Sailing leaders are one of several measures taken by the Government, as has been explained on many occasions here in the Stortinget, and we have received positive feedback from the Storinget. With effect from 1 January 2004, as we have said many times in Stortinget, the Coastal Directorate has thus laid down a new regulation on required navigational managers in the territorial maritime waters representing an environmental risk on the Vardø-Nordkap route. The minimum coastal distance for dangerous and polluting transport is laid down in this Regulation. Of course, it is free for vessels to go beyond this minimum distance. It is on the North Cape–Vardø route that tanker traffic to and from North West Russia has been heading up the coast to date. It has therefore been considered as the most important first to establish a minimum sailing distance on this route. Far west and southward, traffic has experientially sailed further off the coast than the distance I mentioned instead. West of the Lofoten and the West Sea and by the City, traffic goes somewhat closer to land, but most sail outside the territorial border, i.e. longer than 12 nautical miles outside the baseline. From Røst to Stad, ships sail experientially well beyond the territorial boundary. The possible establishment of required sailing managers in the territorial waters for risk transports west and south of North Cape on the routes where traffic is experientially closer to the country will be an important element of the assessments of the Ministry of Fisheries and the Coastal Agency for the deployment of sailing managers. However, we find it absolutely necessary to do a thorough job, which ensures that we take action that gives a good effect, taking into account all the factors involved. For this reason, we aim to come back to a more detailed assessment of these issues when we present the oil pollution report in 2004. related to the sailor within or outside the territorial waters.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e1541	The surprise was not that the sailing routes were introduced, but that they were introduced only from Vardø and to Nordkap. I think many of us have thought that once it happened, one should also include the two areas that the Council of State itself mentions, which have been exposed to traffic that has gone near the coast, namely Røst and Stadt. I also understood the Coastal Works that there was no need for a sailing manager elsewhere, and I am therefore pleased that the Council of State now says something else, that the issue of sailing managers will also be considered outside the Lofoten and outside the City. I then look forward to receiving the announced cancellation message. We hope it will arrive early in 2004 and not late in 2004, because it is clear that this concerns issues that can quickly become acute, and at least we should have the aim of getting the sailing trails in place before the next winter season.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e1548	I agree that we should be able to present that big message as early as possible, but at the same time there are major and complex issues, on which the Stortinget and the Government agree, which should be highlighted there. That's why I think it's important that we spend the time we need, so that we get a qualitatively good message that goes for a future scaling up of measures, if that's what we're getting there. Here I see that we agree: we want it early, but at the same time it has to be quality. Then it's like we're assessing the leader, and some of what we've found necessary to assess before an introduction into other zones, is how we're going to balance this with response time, which has something to do with how close we're to power conditions, probably the driveway for pollution, etc. These are complicated issues that I think it is important that we are judged before we carry on the traffic. We've done a real job for the area where this is introduced. Otherwise, preparedness is very high along the coast of this traffic, regardless of where traffic controllers and borders had to go.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e1555	Last week we witnessed a tragic shipwreck that has also led to the loss of human life. With regard to that tragedy, we have also come to realize that the ship carried 500 to 600 tonnes of oil, and we have also seen what relatively extensive problems such a small quantity of oil has had. We have also seen Norwegian oil protection equipment that has not been able to reduce the damage to any extent or to get the oil out of the water, even though we have been in a position to operate the equipment that we have. Is the Council satisfied with the preparedness we have for oil protection on the coast, and on which we have now tragically received a small test in connection with the tragic loss outside Bergen?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e1562	I think it's too early to take an evaluation of this. We have to find out that the routines and resources were present. We must note that any oil spills are a problem to be dealt with. The quality of the oil, the electricity, the weather, the climatic conditions play in, and of course the extent of the oil. So the evaluation I think we're going to postpone. I believe that all parties are well served by the evaluation, and we need to look at how the individual actors, the IUAs and the Coastal Emergency Service function. But I want to say already now that I am impressed by the efforts our Coastal Workers have made in this job, and also by all the others who have been involved in this. I think we're going to let them finish the work, and then we're going to evaluate it. But the efforts that people have made in a very dramatic and tragic case are admirable.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e1569	Questions 17 and 18 have already been answered.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e1575	I would like to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘E6 between Hamar and Lillehammer has been a serious accident-related roadside billing in recent years. Just since last summer, ten people have been killed here. Make this impression on the Council of State, and what will she do to ensure that the accident rates of this route and other heavily damaged routes can be reduced to a minimum?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e1584	Like the representative of Bredvold, I am very concerned about the accident situation at E6 between Hamar and Lillehammer. In 2003, 12 people were killed on this particular route, and on 23 January 2004 another tragic accident occurred in which a person died. These statistics are gloomy reading and indicate the need for action. I know that the Vegvesen and the police have already held a meeting to discuss measures, and I have asked the Directorate of Road to deal with these proposals as soon as they are submitted. A road safety review of the entire route will be carried out with a view to identifying any physical measures that may be implemented rapidly. The Road Directorate will also carry out a specific review of all or a selection of the meeting accidents with one or more fatalities occurring in 2003 and 2004. The Directorate-General for Roads is working on a proposal for a strategy for the use of semi-trailers on two- and three-field roads. The route concerned is part of the routes under consideration. In the priority between the routes concerned, the accident reduction effect of the measure, the lifetime of the measure, in relation to the possible future development of four-field roads and costs, will be carefully assessed. As part of the work of the National Transport Plan 2006–2015, the state road authority has identified approximately 2 700 km of highway with a particularly high accident load. This represents about 10 pst. of the total length of the national road. Work is under way to carry out road safety audits on these roads in order to identify measures that can help improve the accident situation. Simple and effective immediate action will be prioritised. In the context of the National Transport Plan 2006-2015, a more comprehensive explanation will be provided of the Government’s road safety effort, including standard improvements and more coherent development of the most trafficked and accident-prone parts of the main road network. In this context, an initiative has been taken on the part of the Vegvesen tolling plant that will allow a rapid and continuous extension of E6 to four-field road from Jessheim and northwards towards Lillehammer. Taking into account the road safety of the route, I initially take a positive view of the proposal for a rapid expansion, but at the same time I would like to make it clear that such a scheme requires the consent of the county councils concerned.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e1597	I thank the Council of State for the answer. Unfortunately, the number of accidents, of which fatal accidents, has increased since I delivered this question, as the Council of State says. It says something about the importance of the question, and that the Council of State has to use its influence to do something about this so heavily accident-affected route. I think the Council of State is something – I stress something – vague in its answer. On the basis of the Council's response, I have some questions: Physical measures will come. What are they going to mean? The council also mentions the 2,700 km of highway identified with a particularly high accident load. Is E6 among these? At the very end of the answer, the Council of State said that she was initially in favour of proposing a rapid expansion. What does ‘baseline’ mean? Because either the council is positive, or she isn't.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e1606	It is important to review all possible measures that may be relevant to this route, a route with as high an accident risk as we have seen now, in the same way as for others in the same situation. There may be a wide range of physical measures, ranging from the design of a turn to the improved edge design of the road, more profiled borders or middle parts. There are quite a number of physical measures that can be implemented, and it is now going through. As I said in my answer, the E6 is among the sections that the Vegvesen estimates have such a major accident risk and of such a nature that it comes under the analyses for mid pulleys. But, as I also said, it is important to look at whether to go into the relatively short term and spend a lot of money on this, in relation to the possibility of building a quadruple road, or, if possible, going directly to the best solution, if possible. I'm basically positive for the development of four-field roads, but we have to look at what this involves, both in terms of costs and other things.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e1617	Hedmark and Oppland have approx. 14 pst. of the national road network and approx. 12 pst. of the works of traffic, but they only have 3 pst. of the investment funds. It says something about a bias distribution. In addition, there is a shortage of maintenance, which contributes to the creation of accidents. After what I have heard, there is a backlog in the country in total on approx. 11 billion kroner in maintenance, and it increases from day to day. It is clear that then the number of accidents will also increase. What is needed is more money for transportation. We have 5,000 workers in unemployment queues, we have machines, and, in the view of the Progress Party, we also have money. Actually, it's just to get started. I doubt that immediate action, such as that. photoboxes, will be a particular factor in reducing the number of accidents. If we're going to reduce the number of accidents, we're going to have to straighten out the roads where the accidents happen. That's what needs to be, and that's why I once again ask the Council of State, is she willing to participate in building out E6 and stand on as a strong government council for this?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e1626	We are now in the middle of a budget debate, I understand, and it is clear that it could be tempting. It is absolutely right that we need a lot of money to have a reasonable operating and maintenance budget. That's why we've prioritised it. I also see as a politician that it's not in this area that you necessarily get a baba, but it's important just to save lives on Norwegian roads. We agree that priority must be given to operations and maintenance. With regard to the prioritisation of investment, we will have ample opportunity to come back to it both in the examination of the national transport plan and in the annual budgets. We'll have to wait for that budget debate until then, and I'd like to join in. But I think we're reasonably in agreement that on road sections where there's a lot of traffic and a lot of accidents, we have to do something. We think both in the short term and in the long term. The longer term we're going to get back to in the national transport plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e1639	I have the following questions: ‘Through the media it has been known that the new route proposals of the NSB from 13 June on the Vestfoldbahnen, the Larvik-Skien route, represent a much lower offer on this route. In Telemark, this is seen as a major down-priority of the Larvik-Skien route. What does the Council of State mean, and what will the Council of State do with it, if any?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e1648	It is an important objective of the Government to facilitate a more attractive train offer in Norway, which can both contribute to several train travellers overall, and to the best possible use of the over DKK 6 billion used annually by the State on the railways. The train offer on Vestfoldbanen is covered by the Agreement between the Ministry of Transport and NSB AS on the State purchase of passenger transport services. According to the four-year framework agreement to which Stortinget has previously acceded, the NSB is granted, inter alia: opportunity to cut train departures by less than 15 pst. coating. In such cases, the NSB shall assess the need for bus replacement. This has been done to allow the NSB to adapt the train offer if the demand becomes disproportionately low in relation to the cost of maintaining the offer, cf. St. pp. No 1 for 2003-2004. The total purchase price for 2004 was approximately DKr 1.4 billion, and the representative Olsens party joined through the budget agreement between the Workers' Party and the Government Parties in November. The new train offer on the Vestfold line is better adapted to demand than today’s offer and contributes to better use of NSB resources within the agreed amount of funding. The trains on the route Larvik–Skien have low coatings, on average approximately. 26 passengers per passenger take-off. With such low coatings, and seen in relation to the NSB's many other high priority tasks, it is not economically sound to maintain all train take-offs on this route. The changes in the train offer will give 9 and 10 train departures between Larvik and Ski in each direction during the weekdays, compared with 14 and 16 today, respectively. These changes allow the introduction of 5 to 6 new train departures on the Sandefjord-Larvik route. On Saturdays and Sundays, the new train offer will provide 5-6 train departures in each direction, towards 10-12 today. At the same time, train provision between Sandefjord and Larvik is increased by 2 train departures on Sundays compared to today's offer. I would like to stress that in the agreement on state purchases for 2004 it is cut less than the production adjustment clauses. For the route Larvik-Skien, the number of train departures is also a contribution to re-establishing a train offer on the high punctuality Vestfold track. Since June 2003, the Vestfold Railway has had a timetable that has been too short in relation to realistic driving time. This is due to the fact that the offer of Skien–Lillehammer was adapted so that the travel time effect of the new double track in northern Westfold could be removed. This has not been done with satisfactory punctuality when all the trains turn in the Ski. The proposed solution from the NSB is thus to slip the take-offs that must be run in return from the Ski immediately. This route plan means that all trains currently running in Sandefjord are extended to Larvik, which will thus receive multiple train departures.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e1664	I thank the Minister for the answer, but I was not so very reassured by it. The Minister refers to the budgetary agreement between the Government and the Workers' Party, and I take that for information. But this cannot prevent the NSB from complying with the requirements imposed by the State for the purchase of public services. I would like the Minister to confirm that she agrees that they meet those requirements. We also miss a documentation of the low coating that they claim we have. I choose to believe that the Minister for Transport understands Telemark's concern about future rail services in our country. In today's version of Telemarksavisa, we can read that 20 employees at the NSB in Skien are losing their jobs. Although this is another matter, I think the minister understands that the total offer from the NSB in Telemark feels strongly reduced. We are very concerned, and we want the Minister to give us some clear signals that we should continue to bet on the railways in Telemark in the future as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e1673	The clause applies and the NSB has complied with its requirements. It is such that it is important to take out the great gain that is in using the railway where the railway has its advantage. The Vestfold track has approx. 1.4 million passengers and the consequences of the new train offer are that 1.3 million passengers will receive a more reliable and better offer than today, while passengers on the Skien-Larvik route will receive a more limited offer. That is why I think it is important to stress that the changes planned to be implemented on 13 June are positive for the Westfold Railway as a whole. I believe that the representative Olsen agrees with me that improving the train offer to 1.3 million travellers is not a minor matter, and that it is in line with the political objectives of strengthening the rail system, which I believe both the government parties and the Labour Party agree on.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e1682	I thank you again for the answer from the Minister. I choose to believe – to repeat it – that the Minister understands the concerns we have in Telemark about what is happening, because this has gone on for a long time, and there are constantly new signals about what we feel as a radical reduction in train provision. So the Minister and I both know that we had sorely needed an improvement on the Larvik–Porsgrund route – that is what we get back to when we are going to revise the National Transport Plan. But we'd need a tunnel to improve traffic on this route. I hope the Minister is right that there will be a better offer on the Vestfold track, but I do not think that is the case for Telemark.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e1693	I have no reason to believe anything but that the offer that NSB has made to improve will be improved. The fact that it's a radical reduction in the railways, I'm afraid I can't be on it. When we see that we're facilitating that more people actually get a better offer, I'm going to think it's strengthening the railway. We have a constant obligation to make sure that we have a transport service that meets the needs, and then we also have a responsibility to make sure that we use the taxpayers' money in a sensible way. When the coating is very low on the railway, we have to assess whether the railway is the one to solve the local traffic challenges. I would also like to stress that I am very concerned about the railway, and I want to keep up with the traffic development between the ski and Larvik in order to feel that I myself have an overview of the development there.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e1705	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘NSB can refer to the joyous development of local passenger trains in the East and is justified by the increase in train provision on some routes. Then it becomes a crossroads to propose a reduction in train provision in which, in particular, the Gjøvik Railway is significantly harder hit than other sections of the East. The adoption of NSB’s proposal means that the number of road users travelling collectively will decrease and car traffic will increase. How will the Council of State explain this, which is contrary to national objectives?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e1714	The train offer on Gjøvikbanen is covered by the Agreement between the Ministry of Transport and NSB AS on the State purchase of passenger transport services. As mentioned in my previous reply, the majority has joined the four-year framework agreement between the Ministry of Transport and NSB AS, where, among others, the NSB. allow for the reduction of train departures by less than 15 pst. coating. In such cases, the NSB shall assess the need for bus replacement. This has been done to allow the NSB to adapt the train offer if the demand becomes disproportionately low in relation to the cost of maintaining the offer, see St.prp. No 1 for 2003-2004. The total purchase price for 2004 was approximately DKr 1.4 billion, and the representative Brøbby's party joined through the budget agreement between the Workers' Party and the Government Parties in November. The new train offer at Gjøvikbanen is better adapted to demand than today’s offer and contributes to better use of NSB resources within the agreed amount of funding. Following the change of route on 13 June 2004, there will be 11 local train departures between Skøyen/Oslo and Hakadal and 7-8 between Hakadal and Jaren, against the current offer of 16 departures between Skøen/Oslo and Hakadal, 12 departures between Hakadal and Roa and 8-9 departures between Roa and Hønefoss. The weekend offer is also changed, so that there are closer departures from Oslo in the afternoon and slightly fewer departures on the day when there is less traffic. I would like to point out that in order to compensate for the loss of some local train departures, regional trains will stop at several local train stations. The regional train offer is not affected, with the exception of a train departure on Sunday. From Monday to Friday, there will still be 9 regional train departures between Oslo and Gjøvik in each direction. I would like to stress that the cuts are significantly less than the clauses give rise to, and the NSB's cut-off proposal, and that the proposed changes are essentially about train departures outside of rush time and with very low traffic. The towable passageways to be removed have an average of 15 passengers in each direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e1723	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I also noticed what arguments she used to allow the NSB to operate the way they do. I don't agree with everything she says. I think, in addition to the reduction in train provision on Gjøvikbanen, that it is also an undemocratic process when NSB proposes reductions in local and regional train provision just before Gjøvikbanen may also have to be put out to competition. Thus, before the county council and the municipalities along the track have been given the opportunity to discuss the future offer, a significant reduction in the offer is proposed. The inhabitants of the country shall have a travel offer between Gjøvik and Hadeland and Oslo. It should be such a good offer that it should be a challenge for the Council of State, I think, as this is an advantage in relieving Oslo's road system that has already been pushed enough from before. It does not seem to the Council of State that maintaining a train offer that actually has a market share of more than 30 pst would be an advantage. – for the Hadeland-Oslo route, is the market share significantly higher? The numbers with which the Council of State operates, I don't know at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e1732	It is quite right that, as the Council of State in this area, I am concerned that we should find environmentally friendly transport solutions. For this very reason, it is important to take advantage of the advantage of the train where the train has a priority. But when the coating gets very low, the advantages of using train solutions are quite small, not to say that it may simply be wrong. Therefore, it is important that we find the best and most environmentally friendly transport solutions, and therefore it is important that we constantly look at the resource use we have in the train service we have today. Today, only the NSB is running. Later, we'll have the opportunity to open up to others. Others may have the opportunity to offer a better offer if that is the basis for it. As the market is now, demand at certain times of the day and at certain times of the week is very low. Then I see no reason, as long as we have the agreement that allows for adjustments of this nature, that it cannot be used.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e1742	Once again, I thank the Council of State for the answer. It is a fact that the use of resources on the Gjøvik track and, furthermore, on other sections of trains when there is a lower offer leads to an increase in car traffic – and this is contrary to national objectives. I will challenge the Council of State to the very end of what I said about the undemocratic procedure. Will the Council of State contribute to giving the municipalities and county councils concerned a real consultation on the proposed route provision?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e1751	I think it is quite right and fair that the municipalities concerned should be allowed to give feedback to the NSB, so that we can see whether the total transport offer is good enough. That feedback I expect the NSB to sit down and look at, so that we can have a good dialogue with stakeholders. This process I am because we're going to have.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e1760	I have been allowed to ask the following questions to the Minister for Transport: ‘During the last year, several defects or deficiencies have occurred in the technical installations of the Oslofjord tunnel, which has resulted in the tunnel being closed for periods. In the Christmas weekend the tunnel was closed, and at the latest last week it was closed again. These last closures did not occur as a result of faults in technical installations, but as a result of a fault in the construction itself. Does the Council of State consider that the safety of this tunnel is adequately ensured in all respects?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e1769	The events that have occurred in the Oslofjord tunnel recently with the closure of the tunnel are very unfortunate and regrettable to the road users who are being affected. Based on the experience from Norwegian road tunnels, the conditions that have arisen in the Oslofjord tunnel are special. The Oslo soil tunnel shall be planned, constructed and given a technical equipment common to Norwegian road tunnels. The Oslo Earth Tunnel is equipped with advanced technology for monitoring key functions in the tunnel. However, one must always take into account the failure of automatic monitoring systems, but this must be captured by manual procedures and procedures. Following the failure of the pumps and the warning system, so that water entered the lane of the Oslofjord tunnel, the manual procedures were reinforced both for this tunnel and for the other underwater tunnels here in the country. The Veritas report prepared after this event will be used in further tunnel safety work. Mountain and concrete fell from the roof of the tunnel on 28 December 2003. The tunnel was then closed, so that the tunnel could be repaired. As already planned, the tunnel was opened on 5 January after a thorough review of the entire tunnel. The tunnel was then closed in week 3 for further maintenance work and further inspection. During this inspection, a new batch was detected on the night of 16 January and should be secured. The tunnel was then closed indefinitely. In order to get a full overview of the geological conditions of the tunnel, an expert group of experienced geologists was appointed from among others. Norway's Geotechnical Institute and NTNU. The task of the expert group is to identify the cause of what has happened and to propose the necessary measures so that this will not happen again. Once the State Road Service has closed the tunnel as described, it is because safety comes first. The tunnel will not be opened to traffic until it is sure that safety is well maintained.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e1788	I thank you for your answer. This tunnel has become a very important part of the communication system between the east and west sides of Oslofjorden. And this tunnel is something more than that, it's also an important part of environmental policy. It is there to prevent so many people and road users from gathering in Oslo from the east and west. Therefore, it is very important that this tunnel is also used. Now the government itself says that automatic installations etc. may fail. Yes, of course they can. Now it is the traffickers themselves who have notified these faults and deficiencies that have occurred in the tunnel – which then flooded in, and had it been a motorcyclist who first arrived, it could have been a major accident. When it fell down from the roof, it was also the road users who had to give notice of this and had to close the tunnel. Will the Council of State take the initiative to monitor this tunnel?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e1799	The question of video surveillance has been discussed many times. I know that it was discussed a short time ago between the Road Directorate and the toll company. That's probably one aspect that we'll come back to. But I also want to stress that there is a need here for more than just monitoring. This situation has been, I think it's very important that we have a solid review of the whole tunnel, not only of what we actually see, and will be able to see with video cameras, but also of what we don't see. The rage that came from the tunnel roof, we wouldn't have any indication through video cameras. That's why I think it's important that we can show good enough security, so that people can feel safe in the tunnel, not just in relation to video cameras, but that there is actually a proper review of the tunnel.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e1806	I thank you again for the answer and I fully agree. Of course, more than monitoring is required, for the construction must of course be safe and proper. I feel convinced and confident that it will happen. In addition to the safety of the tunnel, people must feel safe to use it. This is a long tunnel. It's a deep tunnel. It's a steep tunnel, and it's a tunnel in one race. Traffic goes both ways in one race here, so that in addition to the other security measures that the Council of State wisely mentions, surveillance will be something that will make people safer. It will also make that when rescue crews enter this tunnel, they will know what they meet, and they will be able to be prepared for it. This will also, of course, lead to the immediate recording of intermessors in the tunnel, so that the tunnel is immediately closed. I urge the Council of State to consider this closely, as well as other things. That she comes back to this, is excellent. I ask that it be done relatively soon, so that confidence in this tunnel is restored.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e1815	I agree that it is important for people to feel safe. The worst thing that can happen is that we install solutions that in a way provide people with false security. What I'm concerned about is that we have a review of the tunnel that is such that people can know that they're safe in the tunnel, not just installing whatever it may be, as a symbol that people can believe gives them security. Video surveillance may help us on the way to actually getting better control of what's going on in the tunnel, but I'm concerned that people are going to have real security.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e1823	I allow myself to ask a question to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs: ‘Development agreements between municipalities and large builders have increased to an extent. The builders provide financial assistance to municipalities before or at the same time as they are treated. Norsk Hydro pays the salaries of five case handlers in the Överra municipality of More and Romesdal to avoid a large amount of property in connection with Hydro's expansion of the Worm Lange field. Does this appear to be in line with good practice in the administration and right after the administration law?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e1832	Development agreements between private developers and municipalities raise a number of difficult questions. In recent times, the focus has been on questions relating to contributions from private developers to the municipality in addition to the municipality. I intend to draw up a legislative proposal during the year to further regulate access to such development agreements. The question asked by the representative Jacobsen concerns a variant of such development agreements. I would like to say that I do not have detailed knowledge of the situation in the municipality of Aukra, but after I have been informed, it is a matter of planning work related to the expansion of the Worm Lange field, which consumes relatively large resources in the municipality. Norwegian Hydro then refunds the municipality's expenditure on wages to those who are working on these plans in concrete terms. I see it so that where large plants of national importance are added to a small municipality, the treatment of regulation plans etc. be capable of entailing an additional load that is noticeable in the level department of the municipality. In order not to overly agree to the processing resources in the municipality to deal with such matters – perhaps to the detriment of other planned work or other work in the municipality – I would not simply say that the municipality should be cut off from accepting an offer from a private developer to cover parts of the municipality's labour costs. According to the Planning and Building Act, there is already a certain opportunity for the municipality to charge a fee for the treatment of certain cases by the municipality. The principle of payment for the municipality's work under this law is therefore not unknown. I see the concerns that a private party should be able to buy a ‘better place in the queue’ in this way by offering to cover costs for the proceedings. But I believe that in exceptional developments that lead to a heavy burden on the municipality's capacity, this possibility should not be cut off without further delay. It is, of course, a prerequisite that the contractual relationship does not affect the content of the municipality's judgements and decisions. The case handlers must therefore, among other things: be employed by the municipality and not on loans from Hydro, and the benefit must be limited to that of the municipality. With regard to a narrowing of the boundaries in relation to private builders' benefits to a municipality, I will refer to the legislative work on development agreements that the ministry is now implementing. I would also like to stress the importance of transparency about this type of agreement, so that all the concerns can be visible.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e1843	I thank you for your answer. Shouldn't the municipality do anything other than let Hydro pay the salary directly to the municipality hall? One could, for example: Print a regulation fee. One could borrow money, because one has future expectations of high incomes, even if borrowing money would be borrowing for operations, and that's not allowed. Here it's almost talking about what's most bad in terms of management practices. It is right, as the Council of State says, that the Plan Law Selection is working on the matter, but they express themselves very critically that a development agreement should involve a broad assessment of all the interests associated with land use, and suggest strongly restricted opportunities to demand or accept funding of public services from developers. Somewhere you have to set a limit on what is acceptable and what is not. I have received several signals that everyone involved in this matter understands that a place has to limit itself. Where will the Council of State move at this border – towards more use of development agreements, or will it put its foot down soon? Does she have the whole raised foot standing up?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e1852	It is therefore that I have been concerned with the work relating to development agreements from when I became a Council of State and have in two different documents to the Stortinget informed about the work we are doing in relation to development agreements. We have limited the possibility of charging unsubstantiated fees for the guidance and guidance given to the local government sector. To the question of whether I have raised my foot, I would say that I did that long before SV was concerned about the problem, precisely because we have been concerned about what has been going on in the Plan Law Committee, and that has not been about this kind of payment, which is what this is about, but about cases where the development agreement involves a large cost in terms of social infrastructure. It's been the main part of that discussion. It is clear that many other more elegant forms of payment of money from Norsk Hydro can be found when it comes to the treatment of Aukra municipality in the context of the planning process, for example. by issuing a large fee that would cover the exact same thing. In reality, one can always ask the question: What would the difference be?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e1859	I thank you again for the answer and am so pleased that the Council of State finally says this so clearly. Now we've been discussing the problems of those municipalities that are so lucky to have large expansions that lead to future higher incomes. I'm more afraid of the less resource-intensive municipalities that can't hold up a processing capacity, and county councils that can't do it either. I have examples that people have traveled on Christmas holidays while it has played 60 things in the pile, and they clearly say that there are more and more examples that you can't have a good public administration. For SV, it is an important principle that e.g. regulatory work in municipalities should be a public task and those who have the best advice should not be able to buy a better position in the queue. The examples presented just once again show that municipalities need to be given more resources in order to be able to carry out good practice. Experience shows that people want to be good at public services. Of course, it also applies in planning matters. How will the situation be for municipalities without major expansions? Can we risk replacing the principle of non-discrimination with a ‘you-you-you-you-you-you-principle’, with quick treatment for those who have a lot of money?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e1868	It is already a problem of treatment and capacity in many municipalities, and not least the quality of planning and construction work. It is primarily about, as the last few days have been discussed, municipality sizes, and what is effective. It is clear that small municipalities with large industrial development cannot sit with a permanent capacity that will also handle this type of development. Their alternative is to build up for a short period of time, make sure that the costs are covered by income, or alternatively hire consultants to do the same. I personally believe that having employees in the municipality and not going through a consulting company may provide greater guarantees in relation to democracy for the future related to this. Now it is not that private regulation is not allowed. The size has just decided to ensure that private regulatory plans arrive at political treatment by setting deadlines for the length of time on private regulatory plans, precisely because it is allowed in this country for private individuals to also provide planning proposals, without the municipality doing so.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e1878	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs: ‘A two-year-old cock has received a refusal from the UDI on application for a residence permit in Norway because it was not applied for before she left Lithuania to Norway. Her mother is married to a Norwegian and has received a residence permit. Can the Council of State help the two-year-old to leave Lithuania for three months to apply, when the outcome of such an application is still obvious, namely that she will receive a residence permit?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e1887	Let me start with what I usually ritually say in all of these cases in the Questionnaire: I would like to remind you that I do not have the opportunity to go into individual cases of residence permits according to the changes in the foreign law that the Storting adopted with effect from 1 January 2001. So I cannot comment on the individual matter raised by the representative. With regard to the principle issue, I understand that the law on access to apply for a state residence permit can be seen as unreasonable and square in these matters. That is also why, last December, I instructed the Foreign Affairs Directorate and the Foreign Affairs Department not to take negative decisions in cases where special coal children while living in Norway have applied for family reunification with a parent residing in Norway. In most of these cases, children would have been refused because they have applied for the authorisation from Norway, and not before they entered the country. The police were also instructed not to implement such negative decisions that had already been taken. The general rule of the Norwegian Foreign Law is that a foreigner should apply for a residence permit before entering Norway. Derogations have been granted for certain groups but not for children seeking authorisation with only one parent in Norway. Derogations may be made if ‘strong reasonableness’ so requires. In accordance with the obligations of Norway, inter alia: in accordance with the Convention on the Rights of the Child, consideration shall be given to the best interests of the child when new rules are introduced as well as in the practice of the laws and regulations we have. The background to the current legislation is precisely the need to check that the parent in the home Member State agrees that the child is going to live in Norway. It shall also be checked whether the parent resides in Norway alone or not. Norway is also bound by international obligations to prevent the abduction of children. Therefore, Norwegian non-resident authorities need to act in an orderly manner and to impose requirements on documentation in such cases, which may often be difficult where conflicting information is available on the facts in these cases. Anyone planning to stay in Norway must comply with the legislation in force in our country. As I have understood that many people see it as a disproportionate burden that the children are sent back to apply, I have said that I want to spend some more time considering what should apply in these cases. It is a difficult question that requires a thorough review for all reasons. Different parts of human rights may conflict with how we regulate this. It is important to look at both the reasons why children can apply from Norway and those who speak for their children to have their situation clarified before entering the country. This could also affect the practice of visas in relation to some countries if we change the rules we have today. I am currently working on the matter and cannot inform about a conclusion at this time. In a short time, we will assess whether we should proceed with a regulatory change, possibly with «strong grounds of reasonableness». But we have to clarify all sides, because there is a coherent chain in foreign law that can sometimes give incomprehensible answers if we look at the individual issue, but which is about taking into account both parents’ rights – most children have two parents – and the best of the child.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e1898	I fully share the Council's assessments of the complexity that can be in such cases, and not least the need for a procedure to ensure that there is no injustice to the non-Norway parent. I fully share that view. I understand the answer there, with the instructions given that special coal children should not be sent out without further delay, that the Council of State is open to individual proceedings, and that in cases where it is possible to be sure that the reasons which must be taken into account – that is, that of the parents who are not in Norway, it is understood that the child can stay here – can be granted a residence permit without the child having to be sent home. For me, it is the point of this question that in cases where it is possible to carry out this assessment and ensure safety, it does so without automatic repatriation and a new application from the home country.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e1905	I think everyone can have compassion in the single examples that show up in these kinds of things. Some of these cases occur because we allow people to marry when they have been on a tourist visa in Norway, they are not forced to return to apply for a residence permit. Other countries have stricter regulation for both mother and child in most of these cases. It is also not a small case complex. The increased family reunion we're seeing now concerns a little bit older or adult men who marry women abroad, and many of them have children from previous marriages in their home country. Therefore, there is no small and simple matter. It's about the relationship with some of our major neighboring countries and to countries all the way across the globe. We have a lot of things where it might be complicated to make sure that the information you get is correct. With regard to the abduction of children, we are also internationally bound by the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child. On behalf of Norwegian citizens, the size has been very concerned that we should be active in fighting against the abduction of Norwegian children of parents abroad. Then we also have to be sure that we do not make rules that make us come to the other side of people who want to live in Norway but who do not actually have sole care for their child.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e1914	Once again, I agree with what the Council of State says, that there are a lot of reasons here to take, and a lot of weighty considerations. I'm not going to make any attempt to challenge the need to base them, but I'm satisfied with the answer because the Council of State has also shown that she wants to make sure that where you can be sure that these other reasons are respected, you can grant a residence permit without breaking the formal principle that this should happen when the child is in her home country.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e1922	‘According to a press release from the Norwegian Officers’ Association of KV Nord, the Coast Guard’s vessels will, for budgetary reasons, have several days at berth in 2004 than in the previous year. The impact will be less capacity for inspections in the northern regions, including: in the Svalbard Son. Is the capacity of Coast Guard vessels used up and, if not used, what is required by increased facilities for maximum operation?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e1929	Let it be clear that as Minister of Defence, I focus on the best possible use of available Coast Guard resources and the performance of national tasks in the marine areas. Therefore, the Coast Guard budget has had a nominal increase in the period 2001–2004, from 554 million. NOK 694 million. kr. This is equivalent to a growth of approx. 25 pst. None of the defence sectors can refer to similar budgetary developments. This shows a priority for the Coast Guard over the defence’s other activities. The financial framework for the Coast Guard in 2004 is also increasing by 45 million compared to the 2003 budget. kr. In the last two years, the Coast Guard has been compensated for increased VAT expenditure in the regrouping proposition, while compensation has now been included in the budget proposal itself. The remaining increase is mainly due to the full operational operation of KV Svalbard and additional costs of hiring an additional towing vessel in order to increase safety in the north. As Stortinget is familiar with, there are challenges about the radar update on the North Cape class. The government will, as announced, propose a solution to this in the long-term proposition for the Defence, which the Government intends to present later in spring. Based on the radar problems, the Chief Coast Guard has prioritised sailing days for the other seagoing vessels at the top and is fully exploited. A total of 3100 sailing days for the sea-going fleet are planned. This is about the same level as for 2003, or maybe a little higher. It will be possible to slightly increase the number of days sailing for helicopter-carrying vessels in order to increase the total number of days sailing for the sea-going fleet by about 50 to more than 3100. However, such an increase would not be cost-effective as long as the radar problems of the helicopter-bearing vessels have not been resolved. Every day there are 16–17 coastguard vessels on patrol in our sea areas, both north and south. Half of these, or at the top of eight, are seagoing, and the other half patrols along the coast. Because every year since this government joined it has given priority to increasing the allocation to the Coast Guard, it is my opinion that the Coast Guard is given sufficient resources to manage its tasks properly and properly. The presence of the Coast Guard, together with the other capabilities of the Naval Defense, which will in future be new frigates and new ships in the Skjold class, provides a reassuring presence in our northern regions. But of course all of these classes of vessels must relate to the operating budget adopted by the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e1952	I thank you for your answer. I record that there is something different from the perception of the reality of what comes from the League of Officers and from the Council of State. Here it is stated that the production plan for the four largest seagoing vessels with helicopter capacity is 980 days a year, while in 2003 they sailed 907 days, and in 2004 857 days is planned – i.e. a difference of 127 days compared to the original production plan. My final question is whether it is true that the sailing time of the four largest vessels inspecting the Svalbard Zone, Jan Mayen and the Barents Sea is shorter than in 2003, and what is the reason for this in the case?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e1961	Of course, when the Chief Coast Guard is about to dispose of its vessels as part of the Coast Guard, it is important that the most efficient use of the coastguard vessels we have is made. Because we have helicopter problems on some of the coastguard vessels, more specifically on some of the four representatives mentioned, it has been more efficient to use other coastguard vessels than these. It is therefore not the shipping plans for four vessels that are important, that is the total number of days sailing for the sea-going fleet. And so it's 3,100 sailing days this year, which is roughly the same as last year, or probably something higher. So the total number of days spent on the coastguard fleet is important, so there are 16 vessels, eight of which are seagoing, which are at sea every day on average. I would also like to add that in the case of plans that may be drawn up in different parts of the Coast Guard, this is done before the budget is available, and so it is not the figures that will be the result target, but the sailing days you actually have in relation to the previous year.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e1970	I will ask the following questions to the Minister for the Environment Børge Burnde: ‘Fastlands-Norway has 20 national parks. Common to them is that they care for mountain areas, large moorings and watercourses and coniferous areas. The objective of the conservation of the variations in our common natural resources is to ensure all habitat types for the future, from sea to mountain. Norway has no national park to care for the coastal landscape. 2 pst. the area of Eastfold is protected as a nature reserve or landscape protected area. Will the Council of State ensure that the rich plant and animal life of the Eastfold coast is safeguarded by the establishment of a national park?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e1979	The approach to the question basically makes me comfortable – I have to admit that. It is true that most national parks and other large protected areas in Norway are located in our mountain areas. It is natural, of course, because Norway, as a mountain country, has a special responsibility to care for this type of nature. Norway also has a long-distance coast with high natural and landscape quality. Only one of the national parks – the Møjsalen National Park in Nordland, the Vesterålen, as established last year – goes from fjord to mountain. But we also have large landscape protected areas that secure parts of the coastal landscape: the nearby Fjord in Sogn and Fjordane, which I have actually submitted an application to UNESCO to get on the UNESCO World Heritage List today, Froan in the South Trøndelag, in the municipality of Frøya, and Røst and Svellingsflaket in the Northland. In addition, many smaller nature reserves such as: ensure the habitats of the characteristic bird life along the coast. We also find more of these areas in Eastfold, which the representative was also involved in. We are working on several plans to secure the coastal landscape. I can mention the fjord landscape in Geiranger in Sogn and Fjordane, and I have also signed today an application to UNESCO to get this on the world heritage list. This fjord landscape is not only in the Norwegian context, in the European context, but also in the world context. In addition, I can mention two landscaping areas on the Kristiansand-Mandal coastline and the coastal zone outside Flekkefjord in West Agder. In the coastal protection plan for Troms, we want to establish several protected areas on Rebbenesøy and extend the Ånderdalen National Park to include a smaller fjord area. All these plans are planned to be completed initially this year. During the consultation of the draft National Park Plan presented by the then State Nature Conservation Council in 1986, it was proposed to set up a National Park at Håler. The proposal was continued in the National Park Plan to which Stortinget joined in 1993. The County of Eastfold has been given the task of working out a concrete protection proposal in which marine protection values will also be assessed by me. Whales archipelago has great natural qualities. Rich birdlife and a distinctive coastal and archipelago landscape with larger and smaller islands and islands have great value for people in the area, not least in summer time. The area has a valuable and viable cell stock, and under water is found among others. coral reefs and important growing areas for marine species. Under the Nature Conservation Act, national parks can initially only be established on a state-wide basis. However, private areas adjacent to the land of the country and having the same natural quality may also be included with State land. The ownership of Whaler must be considered in particular in order to clarify whether the requirements of the Nature Conservation Act for a national park can be met. Other questions also need to be addressed in planning. If we do this, in a few years we can adopt the establishment of our first national park covering both land and marine areas. There will be a valuable contribution in securing the coastal landscape in Norway in general and the peculiar archipelago landscape of Whaler in particular, where I understand that the representative is very enthusiastic and committed.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e1998	I thank the Council of State for an excellent answer. It's very positive, and I just want to agree that it's not that the coral reef is just big on a European scale, it's actually the world's largest inner section coral reef. It has been found by the Tjärnö Marine Biological Laboratory after long-term marine biological studies in the area. Norway has a unique coastline, from the Swedish border to Grense-Jakobsev. Norwegian protection plans have concentrated on mountains, forests and inland watercourses. Large parts of the population live and work along the coast. Fornafter witnesses of sustainable coastal communities thousands of years ago. The rich marine, plant and animal life along the coast needs better protection than today, especially because it is surrounded by high population concentrations in the neighbourhoods. In Eastfold we have a number of open-air, protected and nature reserves. Enlargement and accumulation of these areas will ensure important recreational areas for future generations. How is the Council of State considering opening up a common Norwegian-Swedish coastal national park in Eastfold and North Bohuslän? And will the Council of State also consider, where appropriate, the possibility of setting up a National Park Centre in connection with the National Park, as it would like to be established on the Whaler?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e2007	First, I want to say that I share the enthusiasm of Carsten Dybevig in relation to the amazing natural qualities we find in Eastfold in general, and in this context, Hyler in particular, not least because of this cold-water coral reef, which is the greatest incision. The largest unscrupulous thing that has so far been found is also in Norway, and it is at Røst, a cold-water coral reef that the Minister for Fisheries and I have protected. It is also an important growing area for fish. When it comes to setting up a national park, I'm positive about it. But as I said in my first answer, there are some premises that need to be clarified. The procedure in relation to the private waiters needs to be reviewed. If we can get to such a national park together with Sweden, so that we get a whole area where we can take care of this special nature for our descendants, there's nothing better than that.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e2014	I thank you once again for a positive answer. A national park will provide a quality stamp that can be used positively in many contexts, such as: in the field of travel and tourism. But it is well that the purpose is not to apply this area unlucky wear and tear, so that the natural qualities available can be maintained over a long period of time. Today's legislation imposes strict requirements on the movement and construction of nature reserves and protected areas. The economic interests of the Outer East fold may initially be skeptical for large areas to be affected by national protection. Will the Council of State ensure that adequate clarifications are made in the planning process of such a national park or that landowners and also the fishing and maritime industries are taken into account, so that coastal resources can also be harvested in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e2023	The reason why, in my first answer, I couldn't say unreservedly that we are going to set up the Hyler National Park is the one the representative now mentions. With private areas adjacent to the land of the country, there are some properties of Whaler that need to be assessed in particular in order to clarify whether the requirements of the Nature Conservation Act on the national park can be met. It is also important to engage in good local and regional dialogue, because we want this enthusiasm linked to a national park in Østfold and Hyler to continue. This should be something positive. Many of our national parks act as ‘honey pots’ in relation to attracting people in tourist settings. However, there must be provisions relating to parks, so that the reason for being ‘honey pots’ is not affected – because then people are no longer being drawn. I feel that it is arranged for a good process here. Now the matter lies with the County of Eastfold, who has been given the task of clarifying the various interests. If everything goes well, we can accommodate such a national park.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e2032	Case No. So 1 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-28.ana.ud547e2043	There is no record.
