ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-05.ana.ud2486e49	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-05.ana.ud2486e52	I suggest Anne Berit Andersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-05.ana.ud2486e57	Anne Berit Hansen is proposed as President-in-Office. – Other proposals are not available, and Anne Berit Andersen is considered unanimously elected president of the Stortinget meeting today.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-05.ana.ud2486e71	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2077]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-05.ana.ud2486e87	At the request of the Foreign Affairs Committee, the President will propose that the maximum speaking time for speeches by the main speakers from each party group and members of the Government be set at 10 minutes, for the other speakers to 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers of each party group and five lines with replies after the contributions of members of the Government. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-05.ana.ud2486e94	The attitude of the Foreign Affairs Committee is marked by both consensus and disagreement. Old dividing lines between the left and right of the policies governing market forces, taxation and the necessity of a strong state, not so much at national level, but at global level, appear in this setting. In several areas, however, a broad majority has been established. I want to start by mentioning a very important area. The Committee, all with the exception of the Centre Party, will open up further reductions in the agricultural subsidies of the rich countries, which are negotiated in the WTO negotiations. In my view, this is one of the keys to achieving globalisation for all. We see that countries like China and India have raised hundreds of thousands out of poverty by means of general trade and foreign investment. They have been able to participate in increasing world trade because they have a functioning state, an industry to build on, infrastructure and high level of education in parts of the population. But the poorest countries, where the state is weak and education, health services and infrastructure almost do not exist, and which have nothing to sell other than agricultural products, are not benefiting from the increased trade created by globalisation, because the rich world is shutting their goods out with export subsidies, customs protection and quotas. In order to achieve a smoother development in the world, there has to be more fair rules for trade that take into account also the least developed countries, the ones I talked about. We must realize that aid that does not come up in any of the rich countries in more than 0.9 pst. of their income, i.e. a disappearing small part, has not led to the desired result. Development projects, financial support and disease control appropriations are of little help if poor countries do not get jobs that can create greater well-being. Then poverty and diseases will recreate themselves all the time. Most diseases are poverty-related. We can see this through experience from our own country back in history and from our neighbouring countries in the Baltic States and Russia in the present. Tuberculosis was a symptom of poverty. It had not been eradicated with vaccines alone. Probably improving living conditions was the best medicine. In Russia, we see that tuberculosis is on the rise again because social conditions have worsened. To explain what I think is necessary at the global level in order for everyone to be able to participate in globalisation, I will draw another parallel to our own history. Our industry was built on the basis of shipping, the sailboats along the coast. Because Norway was Europe’s poorest country, Norwegian shipowners could use Europe’s cheapest labour force to compete with and partially outrun British and Dutch sailing scouts. The shipping industry generated income that could be introduced into new activities in Norway. This is how industrialization began in our country. That's exactly what India and China are doing now using their cheap labour force. But this is not the only important parallel to our own story. Despite the industrial growth that took place in the early phase of capitalism with us, poverty was grotesque and growing. It was fined with alms from the rich and poor funds that the state had set up. With the progress of the trade union movement, this was different. It demanded justice, not gentle gifts and crumbs from the rich. Political demands for education, health and social security were raised — and implemented — thanks to the political majority in order to collect taxes from those who had the most. This way the proletariat was put in the center of the economy. That's when the growth of the industrial community really slowed down. This was as logical as it was true. Workers were given increased purchasing power, so that the companies were able to sell their goods. Workers were also given increased working capacity and job opportunities because they became an accepted part of the community. In this way, we sided the class community and proved to the world that social development, in addition to giving ordinary people a worthwhile life, is also a prerequisite for growth in the industrial community. That's the transition from the welfare state to the welfare state I'm talking about. The fight against poverty in the world, in order for everyone to participate in globalisation, must be waged in the same way. The world’s poor must become the center of the world economy instead of being sidelined as people who must live on aid and alms. It is in this context that free and fair world trade is important. The protection of workers' rights through strong trade unions must be a matter of course for such world trade. It is necessary that the poor countries build a strong state at home, as we did. The role of the World Bank and the Fund must be to build up under social development, not to pressure the poor countries to pursue a neo-liberalist policy aimed at building up the state and weakening trade unions. The policy that these institutions have pursued in parts of the world is itself a good proof of the need for a reform of the entire UN system. Global institutions have been far too dominated by the large and rich countries of the old world. The SV and the Workers' Party are in favour of the establishment of a UN Social and Economic Security Council with the same powers in the social and economic sphere as the Security Council has in the area of peace and security. This new Council should replace the G8 Group and its meetings. It must have the task of closely monitoring economic and social developments in the world and of implementing measures where necessary. The World Bank and the Monetary Fund must work on the basis of guidelines from this Council and not be released and under the direction of the rich countries as much as is the case today. The current Security Council needs to be reformed. All regions in the world must be represented by a fixed place. This is in agreement with the entire committee. However, the majority will not go as far as SV and the Labour Party, which are in favour of restricting the right to veto in the Council. The right of veto has been widely used to promote the interests of the permanent members and has rendered the Council paralysed in too many cases. In my view, this is pointless at a time when there is a clear need for one body to act on behalf of the community. A more democratic UN must be financed by taxing globalisation instead of gifts and quotas as they are today. Those who pay the most have the power today. We have seen that, among other things. when money has been withdrawn because the UN makes decisions that you do not like. Many proposals for global taxation have been put on the table. The most famous is the so-called Tobin tax, tax on currency transactions, which is the most comprehensive and tangible outcome of globalisation. A tax of only 0.01 pst. will be able to absorb enormous amounts, and the tax will also have the advantage of helping to cut off the worst and most unhealthy speculations. SV and the Workers' Party will continue to work for this and other proposals for global taxation. We are pleased that the government parties have agreed to take a step further than what was outlined in the notification, by assessing a carbon tax, which could also absorb large amounts, while at the same time helping to solve another major global problem, namely the emissions of CO2, which contributes to the warming of the globe. Thus, the Committee has prevented Norway from standing without policies and initiatives in this area, even though we had hoped that the majority would have had transparency in relation to other proposals as well. Finally, I would like to strongly advocate a reindeer for policy, for political governance at all levels, the national, regional – in our case this will be Europe – and the global. We must create a policy for a global welfare state based on the ethical imperatives of Christianity on closeness and the solidarity of the labour movement, which I, for my part, have always seen as two sides of the same matter. The Christian neighbourly love is the duty we have to care for our neighbor. Where this stops, solidarity takes over. Through solidarity-based welfare systems, we ensure that responsibility for man is integrated into the social structure itself. The individual's fate shall not depend solely on the will of the fellow human being to give. Solidarity shall manifest itself in institutions, laws and taxes, which guarantee justice for all. That's how we built the Norwegian welfare state. This is what we need to do at the global level – build a global welfare state, so that globalisation can be an opportunity for everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-05.ana.ud2486e134	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-05.ana.ud2486e137	The chairperson of the Committee has spent the last week working through the media to explain the new front lines of foreign policy, where the Workers' Party is said to be building agreement with the SV against the government parties. We look forward with interest to further construction, not least in other issues such as NATO and the EU. In today's context, a key element shall be the Government's belief in generous charities as a basis for aid policy, while the Workers' Party and the SV are based on the fight for justice. However, in the ongoing political work, the Labour Party has followed the government parties in the construction of a comprehensive development policy, where aid linked to auditing and evaluation is one thing, while trade and market access, fair international rules, such as the requirements for good governance, are equally important elements. The question is whether the Workers' Party has two variants of its foreign policy – one for objective, long-term internal work and one for the major headlines in the press. What is the Labour Party's policy? Which version does Jagland expect us to believe in?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-05.ana.ud2486e144	As I said in my post, assistance is still very important, among other things. because the countries that we want to join in world trade cannot cope with it just by making it more fairer, for example. in the case of exportation of their agricultural products, but they need infrastructure, education and health services, and that is where the aid is directed. There must be a combination of assistance and fairer structures in the world community. But we've come to the point where we have to put more emphasis on creating greater justice, more fair rules and more fair structures in the world economy. That's not enough help. It is clear that what has been the trend over the last two decades, namely this neoliberalism – only the market is working, and the poor countries will lift themselves up. It hasn't happened. That's why we have to take a double grip.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-05.ana.ud2486e149	I'll continue a little bit where Finn Martin Vallersnes left off. The working party is high on the track and gives many good signals, especially related to changes in agricultural policy. In the past, we have not experienced to the same extent that these changes have been real in concrete policies. I am thinking in particular of Norway's positions in the WTO context, where the representative, Mr Jagland, is now drawing up a perhaps marked line break. When will we see concrete changes and results of what Iland now highlights as the Workers' Party's new policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-05.ana.ud2486e156	I do not want to say that what the majority of the committee, all except the centre party, has said on this issue, is a shift of lines, but that is a consequence of what has happened within the WTO, especially at the last Cancún meeting, which actually collapsed, where the developing countries said: we no longer want to find ourselves in the rich countries liberalising everything that is for their benefit, while continuing to protect what is important to us, namely agricultural policy. It is quite clear that if we are to get the WTO negotiations back on track, the rich part of the world must come up with new initiatives. We see that the EU and the United States have already talked about this, and we have laid a basis in the vote for the Norwegian Government to follow it up. It is not a matter of unilaterally laying down Norwegian agricultural policy, stepping down agricultural subsidies unilaterally, but it is a matter of doing so within the WTO and in conjunction with what the other countries are doing.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-05.ana.ud2486e163	In my ears, this was a good 'city and country, hand in hand' post from the leader of the Foreign Affairs Committee. We do not have the great need for that policy in Norway today. However, if there is a need for anything in the world, it is precisely that the city and the country are moving along and developing a common policy, so that the poor do not necessarily have to move from rural to large cities. I want to challenge the leader of the Foreign Affairs Committee on what kind of role Norway can play in the WTO to balance precisely the neoliberalist features we see. In a poor country, farmers are not even able to compete on their home market, because the market is liberalised so much that for example. American cotton producers, each getting up to 1 million. kr in aid, competing with local manufactured goods.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-05.ana.ud2486e170	That's an important question. Bear Jacobsen mentioned the United States, but in fact the EU is just as bad in this area. If Bjørn Jacobsen wants to be with me and influence the EU, it would be best for the poor countries. As Mr Jacobsen said, this export subsidy made by the United States and the EU is quite right to ensure that some countries do not even sell their products on the domestic market, because we are dumping the prices of our products on their markets. This is completely unacceptable. Perhaps the most unacceptable thing in the Western world's agricultural policy is export subsidies. We should get rid of them completely, as it says in the setting, from the entire committee in fact, at this point.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-05.ana.ud2486e175	The President is pleased with the prospect of seeing the representatives Igland and Jacobsen hand in hand on their way into the EU. The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-05.ana.ud2486e181	An old word says that it's more important how you take it than how you feel, when you face difficult, perhaps unexpected situations or challenges in life. With globalisation, it can be the same. It's there, despite some trying to debate whether we want it or not. The debate must therefore focus on how we want to deal with globalisation. The right has a fundamental positive view of globalisation. It contributes to increased interaction between people and promotes cooperation. Globalisation means that international cooperation is becoming increasingly important in achieving key policy objectives, both in relation to the development of its own society and in relation to the development of its other world society. For Norway, this is often done in relation to the EU process. Actions implemented in the EU to meet the increasing international governance challenges will have an impact on Norway’s choices and on the effectiveness of Norwegian action. The right approach to globalisation is that there is a process of increasing interaction between people, companies and governments in different countries. This is a process driven by international trade and investment and supported by new information technologies. It is clear that globalisation is the longest in the economic field. Therefore, we can rightly say that globalisation leads to greater integration into the world economy. In this context, it involves the development of global markets for the production of goods and services. The consequence is that we can no longer operate with national economies. This is particularly evident for countries like Norway, with a very open economy. It means that our wealth is similarly dependent on economic development elsewhere in the world. It is therefore essential for us in Norway to contribute to strengthening the capacity of national authorities to exploit the benefits of globalisation. In other words, a good set of national governments is crucial to exploiting the opportunities of globalisation. In Norway, the main challenge is to modernise and streamline existing public institutions. In the poorest developing countries, the challenge is, to a large extent, building new competences, new institutions and legislation. It is therefore of great importance to establish as comprehensive an approach to development policy as possible and to commit both poor and rich countries to significant reforms. Such reforms will include changes in the global framework for trade, debt and investment. It will include good governance in developing countries, more and better assistance from OECD countries and also mobilization and strengthening of the private sector and civil society. Therefore, considering the Norwegian and Norwegian development policies as almissaries, as the head of the Foreign Affairs Committee has done in the media this week, is totally wrong. It is the goal of the Government and the Right that as many people as possible in this country as possible and globally benefit from the positive aspects of globalisation. It is therefore important to contribute to the fullest possible realisation of individual human abilities and to the experience of the age of globalisation as a world of opportunities and not of constraints. There is no doubt that increasing globalisation has had a great and positive impact on many people around the globe. Contrary to the impression that Norwegian media are spreading, the enthusiasm for globalisation is greater in poorer countries than in the West. A survey by the recognised polling agency Pew Research Center among 38 000 people in 44 countries across all continents shows that a majority of the population in the United States and Western Europe believe that globalisation is good, although only 7 pst. believes it is very good. In Asia and Africa south of the Sahara, however, 22 and 29 pst respectively consider. that globalisation is very good. While every fourth person in the West believes that globalisation has a negative effect, only every tenth person, that is to say 10 pst., in Africa and Asia share this view. In Africa, 75 pst. they asked that multinational companies have a positive impact on their country. 72 pst. believes that institutions such as the WTO are charities, and it is only 28 pst. who believes that the anti-globalisation movement brings something good with it. Globalisation means more freedom, but freedom must also be combined with international responsibility. This implies a greater need for global Community solutions. In concrete terms, this is reflected in an increasing demand for a better organised UN system. A reformed UN, which takes better account of the political, economic, security and environmental challenges of the 21st century, will be a UN that is more legitimate and thus more effective and democratic. As the opinion of the Committee on Foreign Affairs says, the objective must be to 'be able to create, through better international driving rules, a global society based on democratic states where all people have social security based on justice and where everyone has the right to a job and the right to support themselves and theirs'. At the same time, it is also the view of the government parties that reform of the UN system must lead to more effective forums and institutions than to try to replace them with anything else. That is why we also believe that the aim must be to make the existing multilateral forums, including the Bretton Woods institutions, as effective, relevant and representative as possible. A particular challenge for Norway as a Member State is to make the various multilateral forums work optimally together. It is against this background that we are skeptical of the desire of the Workers' Party, the SVs and the Centre Party to establish a UN Economic and Social Security Council. In our view, it is therefore more important to streamline existing institutions than to create new ones. For Norway, the development of the EU means a great deal in relation to globalisation processes. In this perspective, it is Right’s view that regional integration represents a lasting and promising trend. Regional integration in different corners of the world creates new opportunities for peace, development and interaction. At the same time, regional integration processes represent new opportunities for interregional cooperation. This is an extra way to strengthen global governance. ECOWAS in West Africa, the African Union, AU, ASEAN in Southeast Asia, Mercosur in Latin America and NAFTA are all examples of regional processes. Not all of them have a political community as their goal, but they all aim to strengthen regional cooperation in such a way that it benefits all parties. Therefore, there is also a danger to SV and the Centre Party when they claim that there is a contradiction between regional integration processes and the global cooperation structures. Rather, regional cooperation can strengthen the prerequisite for the proper functioning of global events. For example, the EU has: repeatedly underlined that they consider their common foreign and security policy from a UN perspective. It is important to consider when analysing the reform processes now taking place in the United Nations from the Norwegian side. Globalisation is a development of which we are part. I am delighted on behalf of millions of young people in all countries who will share in the opportunities that open up to them in a globalized world. They will have greater opportunities for self-development, but also to play a greater role in the future and destiny of others. Perhaps this is the reason why so many of my younger colleagues in the Group of the Right have drawn attention to today's debate with great zeal. The future belongs to them, and they want to take a share of responsibility for overshadowing the problems both for us and for others. Thomas Friedman, a permanent correspondent for the New York Times in the Middle East, wrote as late as yesterday, March 4, about the development of globalisation in three phases. Phase 1 was from the end of the 1800s to the first world war, with steamboat, rail and falling transport costs. The world shrunk from being big to becoming medium-sized. Phase 2 was from approx. 1980 to 2000, with falling telecom costs and PC entry. The world shrunk, from medium to small. Now we're in phase 3, where the world shrinks from being small to being small, and is characterized by fiber optics, broadband and almost free transport of huge amounts of data. The PC is universal, and there is software for any purpose. One can believe what one wants about globalisation, writes Friedman, but it is certain that it does not disappear. The right is very pleased that the government through the message shows how we are going to exploit the opportunities offensively and become a responsible co-player in the world that surrounds us closely, demandingly, but also expectantly.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-05.ana.ud2486e220	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-05.ana.ud2486e223	Let me first stress that the position that exists here from the Foreign Affairs Committee represents a very good piece of work, an important political base on the part of the Stortinge, in order to continue working with global distribution and global justice. I would also like to stress that we can thank the rapporteur for that. I would like to ask the representative of Vallersnes if he agrees that the case rapporteur has really done something out of a big message that might not have been so good in the first place. Then the representative Vallersnes says that all people have to have social security. We agree. But then I have to ask whether the representative Vallersnes believes and agrees with the Workers' Party that we need a global welfare state with the means of distribution and the mechanisms on which we have also built our welfare state. Then I have to ask: what makes the Right go against trying to find a global system of taxation and income, and that they also go against an economic and social security council in the United Nations?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-05.ana.ud2486e230	The reason we're going against the Social Security Council, I guess I explained in my article. In the case of new financial instruments, we believe that an attempt should be made to implement the already existing scheme, with 0.7 pst. by GNI imposed as a charge on the members of the United Nations. It's a goal that you should be able to achieve, and it's realistic. Moreover, I have noticed that in the investigation that came on 24 February from the group set up by the ILO to look at the social consequences of globalisation, with the presidents of Finland and Tanzania as leaders, a number of factors have been passed that allow developing countries to also achieve the necessary social security by taking an active part in globalisation. But I notice, interestingly, that there is not one place mentioned by this ILO group that it is necessary to bring up new financial instruments, currency charges, or whatever it may be, in order to get this done.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-05.ana.ud2486e239	There is no doubt that there is a need for an increased funding base for the United Nations. But as it continues, we have the great reform work under way by the United Nations. Norway is represented at Gro Harlem Brundtland. What we know about the veto right is that earlier it was the Soviet Union that used it, almost uncritically. In recent years, the trend has turned around, so now it's the United States that uses it. It's almost a trend that if you don't agree with the United Nations, you don't pay. The United Nations has major problems in obtaining the quota from Member States, not least from rich Member States. Does not the Right at all see, even if one does not want to suggest that the right to veto needs to be reformed, that there is a basis for criticising the right to veto as it does today?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-05.ana.ud2486e246	I think there is quite a broad consensus in the Committee among the various parties to point out things that should be better in the United Nations system. It's also about the composition and function of the Security Council. So now a United Nations reform group is set up to look at such changes. Fortunately, Norway is represented, by former Prime Minister Gro Harlem Brundtland, whom I assume has a broad trust also on the left side of this Chamber. The right does not have a tradition of taking the conclusions in advance. We'd like to see the investigation, the analysis, and then we'll see what it's possible to do. But the things that should be changed on are quite well discussed, and they are probably widely agreed on.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-05.ana.ud2486e253	The WTO negotiations in Cancún collapsed because the Western countries refused to park the so-called Singapore themes, which entail further liberalisation in a number of areas. Developing countries were clear opponents of this. After Cancún, a number of politicians have pushed the uprising of developing countries to their breasts. However, the majority of this room is silent about the fact that Norway is going right in the throat of developing countries and is actively working to include Singapore themes in the further negotiations. The representative of Vallersnes and Right, including the Young Right leader in a media debate earlier today, wants to be the best friend of developing countries through his liberal approach. My question to the representative of Vallersnes is this about being the best friend of developing countries in this context will also mean putting Singapore themes on ice and thus dying for the new negotiation process.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-05.ana.ud2486e260	I know myself very little again in the representative Hagas description of the Norwegian negotiating positions as they have been, and so the Council of State has explained how one goes further. We are also aware that, until recently, the Council of State has had quite extensive contact activities to keep in touch with the developing countries as well. So I don't know much about that description. Nor do I agree that it is necessarily the case that developing countries are badly served with liberalisation. On the contrary, I believe that liberalisation will in many ways be driven in the future by the desire of poor people for higher standards of living and technological development. While Marx was the leading star of young progressive people in developing countries 30-40 years ago, today we see that in many ways global liberalisation and the market are their belief in a better future.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-05.ana.ud2486e267	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-05.ana.ud2486e270	I want to start by giving a well-deserved tribute to the case rapporteur, who has not only contributed to bringing Norwegian positions internationally to a better track, but has also provoked us to produce some clear dividing lines. And for once we take the time to lift our eyes and watch a little bit beyond the breath pond here at home. We've been challenged to think a little bit about what processes are going on in the world, and how we're going to deal with them. The Progress Party has chosen a line in the setting where we have wanted to be with all or part of the Committee on the essentials of comments – this to show that there is a great deal that unites us in the view of the outside world. It's essentially the same possibilities we see, and a lot of the same challenges. But we've sometimes gone extra far in order to be able to participate, and interpreted the comments in the most positive way possible. While showing that we are together about a lot, it was important for us to show that in this debate there are also dividing lines, clear dividing lines. I think everyone realizes that political everyday life must include compromises and positions that may be only a small step in the right direction. And the small steps are what politics often deal with. That's why I think it's important that you get a little bit more visionary and a little bit more principleal, and show what's behind your thinking. The Progress Party has attempted to do so in this setting. We record that SV and the Center Party do the same thing. We think that's good, because it can involve people and after all tell us that although we can agree on a lot, there are differences, maybe even big differences. Our main problem with the setting is the desire for more global governance. This desire is somewhat varied, a bit cautious from the government parties, a bit more marked from the Workers' Party and very strongly from the SV and the Center Party. It's an honest thing to want to rule. Sometimes it's also right, but not always. Our point is that what has proved to be the positive aspects of globalisation is essentially the result of less governance and more freedom for individuals. It is not under regimes that prefer to rule as much as possible, that the well-being and prosperity of the inhabitants have been best cared for. Nor are there examples in the international context of strong governance as such contributing to poverty reduction. But there are many examples of the opposite. I am fully aware that the other parties think of some kind of democratic governance, but if that governance is established at the expense of individual freedom, it will not necessarily be perceived as democratic. The highest form of democracy is when we, as individuals, can make free and independent elections. But then I've also come to realize that the desire for more global governance is to correct distortions and errors that exist in today's global society. It's a great and good idea, we even accept that in some areas this is necessary. But we will warn against replacing the lack of governance of national states over human lives with stronger international governance. We think that in individual parties we can understand that when we cannot control development here, we have to take control elsewhere. One example is the desire for international taxation. The pressure on Norwegian taxes and taxes is high today, and how long we can maintain a sky-high Norwegian level of taxes is uncertain. But then the politicians who have been good at imagining new taxes and taxes every year come up with the idea of taxing internationally. I am not going to use this debate to talk about the benefits of low taxes, but I am only going to note that it is disappointing that only the Progress Party rejects the idea of global taxation. Globalization is all about people, people who have completely different opportunities than they have ever had. There are exceptions; there are hopeless poverty and oppression in many places, and there are no problems in finding people who have it hurt, and who even have it worse than before. However, progress is largely in the future. Growth is constantly bringing new people out of bottomless poverty. People live longer, they can read more, they can increasingly take part in modern technology, and new opportunities are created for people who were previously isolated in traditional agricultural societies. In the case of India and the revolution that happens there, not least in the use of data, it's absolutely amazing. Today, there are thousands of Indians handling the accounts of US companies – electronically. This is one of the things now going on around the world, almost a silent revolution, which is largely driven by technological developments. This revolution is not planned by any authorities or organisations, but it occurs between people and between enterprises. Had the authorities included this kind of technological revolution in their plans, I doubt whether we had come past the stage today with a hole card in the computers. So the recipe must be that states and international organisations are essentially not involved, and do not interfere with the driving forces of globalisation. But what about those who are not allowed to participate in this development? What about those who don't have education? What about those who do not meet their basic health needs? My claim is that these people will be better off with more globalisation, they will be better off with more freedom and the absence of strong governmental governance. But it is also important for us who confess us to liberal social ideas, to recognize that people from time to time need a handshake, a little support to move on. And there we are to be. But there is a big difference between going in and solving concrete challenges, such as: vaccinees for all children, and making clients out of all countries, a client relationship that not only allows the client to be reported on a long-term basis but spends his or her whole life in an institution. Despite the fact that we believe that the other parties are too busy with control and control, we are optimistic, not least because we believe that when the earth's population gradually becomes free, it does not want to give up that freedom. We also believe that some processes are impossible to control. This has also been important to abolish totalitarian regimes, for example: in Eastern and Central Europe. Evolution could not be stopped. And unless you want full control, something no one here does, the development with greater degree of individual freedom and opportunity will continue. This will lead to better development. Then we need to focus politically on what are the challenges: to deal with those who in any case will not be able to share in the benefits of globalisation, and not least to prevent and prevent negative outcomes in relation to, for example, globalisation. international crime and terrorism. Because one should clearly not underestimate that here are the challenges that can be related to a more open world. We are more vulnerable and more vulnerable to well-organized networks of criminals. I mentioned earlier the advantage of reducing power to the nation state. Well, here we are in an area where the benefit is derived from negative forces. So there we share the Committee's view that we need control. Globalization is multiplicity, and not all as evocative. But we want to help remove the label that globalisation is dangerous and a threat. Then we record that the word 'nyliberalism' is used by both the SV and the Workers' Party as a shell word. Nyliberalism should be the policy that perhaps the World Bank and the IMF stand for. We do not feel at home in that description and in that policy. We will conclude that we share the desire for social cohesion and social benefits. We note that a liberal economic policy gives economic growth, economic growth gives greater social equality, and greater social equality and growth also provide opportunities for more well-being. There is therefore no contradiction between liberal economic policy and social cohesion. We are very positive about the trend we particularly see at the Workers' Party and the case rapporteur, who are moving in a good direction. I mentioned agriculture earlier today, but also in other areas, the importance of trade is recognised for the positive steps in the signs of globalisation. Then it becomes for us a record bomb when you say that we have to make a deal with neoliberalism or liberalism, because we believe that what has been the positive effects of globalisation is a sign of liberalism, and that in this way you shoot yourself a little bit in the foot when you attack what is the reason why the world, after all, is going forward.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-05.ana.ud2486e309	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-05.ana.ud2486e312	It was with some wonder that I read the comments of the Progress Party on the communication on globalisation. The Progress Party claims that globalisation appears uncontrollable and chaotic, and acknowledges that many feel powerless. But then it points out that powerlessness is good. The working party has always thought that it is an end in itself to feel that you have control of your own life. In order to achieve this, it is important that at times man has to give a little autonomy to the community. This so that everyone, including yourself, will regain control of their own lives. This is far on the way to the main idea of one of liberalism's ancestors, Thomas Hobbes: Every fight against everyone will even the strongest tap on, he says. Does the representative, Mr Höglund, see that the policy of the Progressive Party is in line, not in connection with the liberalist ideology they themselves believe they stand for?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-05.ana.ud2486e317	I want to distance myself from the statement 'all fights against everyone'. That everyone works to improve their own situation no matter where on the globe you are, and that work tasks are distributed to where it is most practical, makes sense. So my example of Indian accountants is the way we see it, a win-win situation, and gives growth not only to Indians, but also to the United States of America. This is how liberalism is, fortunately, and this is how it has proven itself to be a win-win situation. Of course, we're not talking about any anarchy and a world without a proper foundation. I think I made a clear point in my post that we also need international driving rules. But as for the desire for more and more control, we distance ourselves from such thinking.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-05.ana.ud2486e322	This case marks the beginning, at least the beginning of the Advance Party's foreign policy. The representative of Morten Höglund, in the morning newspaper of 27 February of this year, stresses that the Progress Party will now mark itself with a foreign policy also outside the borders of Norway. I find it alarming that the party has actually been successful for 31 years without it. The new foreign policy of the Progress Party seems to me to be both self-contradictory, backward and completely without understanding what kind of problems and not least opportunities globalisation creates for all of us. But the positive conclusion is that globalisation is fundamentally positive. However, the really eye-catching thing is how the Progress Party characterises organisations such as the United Nations, OECD and the EU as nothing but letter combinations that some people want to use to govern the world. What is it really the Progress Party wants with these letter combinations? What does the Progress Party want with organizations such as the United Nations, the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-05.ana.ud2486e333	Those who over the years have followed the foreign debates here, I hope I will have acknowledged that we have had a foreign policy. But this was an excellent opportunity to get a complete platform, we'd like to acknowledge that. What do we want with these letters? We're afraid you sometimes disclaim responsibility by saying that this is what we do through the UN, this is what we do through the World Bank, this is what we have to solve. We don't always think that the solutions are there. Sometimes they can lie there, but we don't have an excessive faith in what international organizations can do in bringing people out of poverty. We do not believe that the power and authority of the United Nations is so great that we can waive responsibility in other areas. We believe that our own policies in relation to how we act and act every day are far more important than what is actually happening in the United Nations, and that the United Nations has made little contribution to the positive developments we are now seeing.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-05.ana.ud2486e340	The Progress Party does not have the habit of obsessing about having a national environmental policy, nor does it advocate transnational action to address global environmental challenges. The global warming is one of these challenges. The Pentagon has now issued a report that calls for climate change to be a greater threat than terrorism, a news that most people have brought with them quite a long time ago. Does the representative, Høglund, believe that climate warming is a man-made challenge that needs to be solved, and in what way?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-05.ana.ud2486e347	Contrary to what some people in this room think, we don't follow the Pentagon in a single sense, nor in this context. We see significant weaknesses in what is the basis of current climate policy. We recognize that man has an impact on climate processes, of course we do. But from that to saying that this we can reverse, this we can flip just we act like this and like that, we don't believe that. We think it will deprive us of, among other things. the opportunities to allow the poor part of the world to grow, if we were to introduce the kind of climate policy that the party that Bjørklund represents. You have to take the research facts into account, but not shave off your chin.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-05.ana.ud2486e352	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-05.ana.ud2486e355	In our part of the world, we have made incredible progress for all parts of the population after the welfare state building grew in the post-war period. For SV, there are two major questions that should be asked to help us get the course out further. How do we get the rest of the world included in this economic and political prosperity to eliminate the distinction between poor and rich? And how can we help to control the growth, which must come into the parts of the world that cry out to share in prosperity, in such a way that it becomes viable for all? I think we need to start at the political level by strengthening and developing the political institutions that exist at the global level, and by creating new institutions to be at the cutting edge of the challenges that lie there. By actively taking action and using political will to control globalisation, we will show that it is not natural, and that it is too important to be left to random events. The UN reforms that are in progress need to be backed up by Norway, and the establishment of an economic and social security council may be a source of conflict resolution based on civil means. When such a Security Council comes in addition to the ordinary Security Council, it will enhance its security coverage. Increased security coverage takes more into account the causes of conflicts and takes with it all possible civil decisions, and war is definitely the last resort after all other measures have been tried out. Today, the UN Security Council is composed in such a way that it reflects little of the world as it is. We need a reform so that all regions are represented, and there is little doubt that it is Europe that has to give in order for others to be represented. In many countries it is still the case that if one organizes itself, it is at risk of life and health. It applies to the addition of the industry, to small farmers and to many others. We know that a commitment to the functioning of the labour market is that there are social partners. Does Norway and Norwegian companies build up below this when we are actors out there? Do we remember that we were lucky enough to find the rule of the people before the oil, and that in that way we could bring wealth to the benefit of everyone, not least those who were added to the world of work? The labour force will have purchasing power, and countries will also have economic development. Henry Ford was one of the first to realize this, when he built cars that people could afford to buy. If you get people to participate in the economy, you also get wealth and development. Trade unions have played a major role in building up a democratic welfare society and a working life with a relatively high level of protection against exploitation and underpayment and against the harmful working environment, and in influencing the individual’s own work situation in Norway. Free Trade Unions International – FFI – believes that there is an increasing number of abuses against trade union activists worldwide, and an increasing pressure against professional rights resulting from international competition. We've also heard words in Norwegian that "let them just come here, but don't let them get the same dishes as the Norwegian workers, and we have to be able to send them home when we don't need them anymore", about prospective workers. It is a requirement that forwarders all over the world should be entitled to the same dishes as national ones. Therefore, SV considers that when the labour market becomes more freer, it must also be a principle that all workers within the same country should enjoy equal rights, irrespective of nationality. It's possible to set conditions. Recently, in Stavanger, we received a principle that when an offer was made, it would be a requirement that the company that made the offer should have a service pension for them to add. It's useful to influence, it's useful to tell and set standards. Such requirements may also be used in international contexts. In the case of forced labour and slavery in production, we can use consumer boycotts, and at least Norway should address violations of professional dishes against the countries with which we have trade cooperation. Norwegian port workers' actions are a good example of this having benefited from history. It is gratifying that a collective committee sees it as a main thing for years to narrow the gap between poor and rich. The commodity prices are and will be central to this context. The latest UNCTAD report confirms once again that most commodity prices are falling. Coffee is being sold for about $70 billion on the world market today. $5.5 billion comes back to the producer countries. It shows the skew distribution in this area, an area where producer countries really produce and sell and are the ones that account for most of everything. Only the VAT on coffee is more in income for Norway than the producer countries receive. This is money that is used diligently by the different committees here in the house when the welfare state is to be built – here in the country. It is not useful for poor countries to produce from the commodity traps, as prices fall even more. They don't have a state that provides export subsidiaries and that way solves the problem of overproduction. On the contrary, they are dependent on protecting their own market against products from the north — many times subsidised — and try to obtain market access for products, without regard to price. We need to keep working to get rid of export subsidies to the rich countries and put in place a device of the internal agricultural support that provides environmental and employment effects and thus safer food. Non-productive agricultural incentives are the answer to future policies both in Norway and in other countries. There is no doubt that there are limits to growth, and that re-allocation will be central to policy making if we are to meet the environmental challenges that arise. We've got our luck so far. We've had growth. But we haven't dared, we haven't yet been dependent on going into what's called real redistribution, because the growth has been there. The natural basis for growing has doctors there. Now perhaps nature has seen such a framework for this growth that we have to go in and tore perhaps the hardest and toughest of all, simply re-distribute. Access to own markets and more south-south trade will be more likely for many countries instead of increasing liberalisation. Excessive export correction of the economy will, in many respects, lead to considerable internal differences in many countries. The WTO and the Doha Round must consider these issues. In the framework of all international trade, these must be subject to the UN's overriding objectives. The thousand-year-olds are one of the most concrete things we've managed to come up with in the United Nations in order to smooth out the world. A clear task here is to solve the debt problems of many countries. Here, Norway must be able to take the initiative to undertake studies on the definition and operationalisation of illegitimate debt, which it is so nice to call, and not just to support such initiatives if they are to appear at random. Here, the government must be on the agenda. Bankruptcy and court will embrace more than just countries in bankruptcy. It is important that countries that have had an undemocratic regime should be able to try parts of their debt bonds as illegitimate, even if they have not gone bankrupt. It is important that a debt court is also presided over when it comes to irresponsible lending policy. We know about this in Norway as well. Many residents of Norway had debt problems early in the 1990s. We know that it went so far that the banks went bankrupt. The banks of Norway, of course, nationalized themselves. But then the state was there with the guarantee institution, etc. and rock the banks, so that they didn't fall completely off guard. For example, on Majorstua. could see a large sign with a great Volvo and with arrow into the bank to borrow money. But we also know that whoever borrows money actually also has part of the responsibility. But what we see in relation to the guarantee system, as it works today, is that she takes into account the one that is actually the creditor. We need to see if we can't get a solution, so that the responsibility is put more on the person who borrows the money. Today, about 400 billion dollars are administered by the Western Export Credit Institute. That's about 20 pst. of all non-residential debt. They are created in such a way that they start working when the seller has a problem with the buyer not being able to pay – i.e. a device that exists for those who have the most. If we look at this in the context of money laundering, illegal money flows and tax havens, there is a picture of a lot of money that is on the verge of contributing to a welfare state. Work on this has intensified considerably since the terrorist attack of 11 September 2001, because one believes that terrorism is being financed, among other things. from these channels. Only a small island that Cayman Island has about $800 billion standing on different accounts. One calculates that this is growing by about $150 billion a year. Here's a lot to tackle and a lot of challenges. I take up the proposals from the Socialist Left Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-05.ana.ud2486e391	The representative, Bjørn Jacobsen, has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-05.ana.ud2486e396	SV speaks in the setting hot for a tax on transactions, a so-called Tobin tax. So the party considers itself part of the Attac organisation's value base. James Tobin himself says: I think many who have jumped on the Tobin tax train, whether it's Attac or anyone else, don't understand the economic and financial arguments for the tax. They are not so interested in the matter as to withdraw more money for their favorite purposes. He further wonders about the anti-globalization movement's use of his name: I'm shy about it, because it connects me – against my will – with things I disagree with. My first question is: how is it solidarity for development in poor countries to lock up money where it is already in the rich countries? And question 2: What is the SV's answer to James Tobin's observation?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-05.ana.ud2486e410	Last fall, I was so lucky to be in a United Nations delegation to New York. We passed a kiosk there, and my son massa and massa, but then I bought him a magazine called Forbes Magazin. What was interesting about Forbes Magazine was that it had a great overview of the world's richest people. I think there were some Nordics down to 400th place, or something like that. Bill Gates was in the first place, with $45 billion in income. From now on, we were briefed on the UN reform, the UN budget: we are talking about the UN having a budget of USD 3-4 billion. We're talking about giving the U.N. — the organization that's going to take care of the world's challenges. We're talkin' about handkerchief! In this context, Tobin tax is an idea. It's a suggestion. But there's one of many ways to get money where it really needs to. We're talking nonsense in everything, as I said, about pickpocket. If we look at what we spend on weapons, we're up to $6,000 billion.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-05.ana.ud2486e419	To the Right is an open world where people, goods, services and capital can move freely, something fundamentally positive. It is worth noting, also on the left, that among 117 selected countries in the period 1970–89, growth was three to six times higher in those countries that had liberal trade regimes than in those that had protectionist policies. UNDP goes as far as calling trade barriers to development barriers. Annually, u-country loses $7,000 billion because they are not free to sell their goods on the international market. Nevertheless, SV and parts of the left-hand side now enter for another protectionist regime, namely the Tobin tax. Why is it that the SV and the left want to stagnate economic development, and thus stagnate the fight against poverty? Isn't it profiting international trade actually having as its main goal and regime, and thus getting people out of poverty?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-05.ana.ud2486e426	Trade is positive, there is no doubt about it. Then you can ask yourself whether any Tobin tax or other forms of taxation will prevent trade – I don't think so. We have a long tradition of regulating trade in Norway – one might, for example. take such a simple thing as that the state has had an obligation to purchase goods, just so that the farmers would not go with the lua in their hands on a market to paralyze their products. It is clear that what the poor countries are demanding is to let go of what they have most of them, cheap labour. The government also sees that we need some regulation, so that there is no social dumping in Norway. It's a balancing we're talking about here. Of course, the poor countries will enter the Norwegian market with goods, but it turns out that it is not that easy for example. MUL countries to produce a product. They don't have the further processing industry that's going to, or the packaging system that's going to, to put in a store at Karl Johan with a product that we can buy. So simple is not the world. It's possible it's so simple for Right, but I don't know about Right [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-05.ana.ud2486e433	The number is out.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-05.ana.ud2486e436	In the setting it is mentioned and in its post mentioned Bjørn Jacobsen the term ‘limits for growth’. This is a term that occurred a long time ago. 200 years ago, we talked about the limits of growth. The people on earth were eating up all the resources. In the 1970s, this was repeated very strongly. Nevertheless, technological development has moved in such a direction that we have been able to cope with growth; we have become increasingly rational. And then you connect this to that we have to control, we have to control. It would have been interesting to hear Jacobsen say something about the extent to which the countries that run the most, and have run the most, have been most ecologically responsible versus those that have run the least and left much more to the market.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-05.ana.ud2486e443	I'm assuming that Morten Höglund wasn't least thinking about the so-called communist regimes, which we had a good part of a few years ago. There is no doubt that they would not have expected the big problem when it comes to the environment. They didn't include it in the whole math problem! They also assume that growth was there as a natural condition. But all research shows that there is not a natural condition. All research also shows that we have a wide room for action. We can do a lot when it's about the environment. It turns out that even jobs can be created. Either it's here in the country or it's in other countries, we have huge challenges, for example. with a view to saving energy. This shows that it can also provide jobs, and it gives growth, but a growth that we can balance with the requirements that we have embedded in the Kyoto Agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-05.ana.ud2486e448	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-05.ana.ud2486e451	I would also like to introduce myself to the case manager for a good job. He's made sure that we've got a process that has given us the ability to think through and challenge the process, even if I want to say that he's hurt to correct the differences a lot in some areas in the presentation of the setting afterwards. But it should not underestimate what was my main point, namely that I thought the case spokesperson has done in an exciting way the management of an important setting. But I'm probably a little disappointed with the lines of what we heard from the representative Nybakk today, who says it is positive about the case spokesman by being critical of a message that has given us this challenge as the debate here today is. It kind of seemed to me to be constructing contradictions, and there are characteristics that I don't think belong here – that's what they said. In the newspaper The New York Times yesterday describe the splitist Thomas Friedman the globalized economy. It also showed the representative Vallersnes, so it's obvious that we're reading a little bit of the same international newspaper. The first phase of globalisation was driven by falling transport costs, due to steam ships and railways. The second major phase was driven by falling prices for telecommunications and the PC. Now, says Friedman, we have taken the step into the third phase of globalisation, which reduces the size of the world from ‘small’ to ‘extra small’. The new ‘outsourcing’ of office jobs, ‘white-collar jobs’, to third-world countries, is made possible by three technological innovations: Firstly, massive expansion of long-range fiber optic cables and bandwidth, allowing huge amounts of data to flow at a low cost. Secondly, the number of PCs around the world has increased dramatically. Thirdly, computer programs that make it easy to share work with offices on the other side of the world have been available. Because of this development, we now see India swinging up. Friedman tells us about Jerry Rao in Bangalore, who works in a company that makes tax bonds for thousands of Americans and American companies. Indian engineers create computer programs for Norwegian companies, even the telephone service for Norwegian companies can be located in Thailand, where Thai finishers who have attended Norwegian courses take the telephones. I'm going to be the first one to admit that this gives rise to new ethical challenges. Those who have these office jobs in India and Thailand are kind of lucky people who have gotten interesting and locally well paid jobs. But at the same time, they make the job a small fraction of the salary of a Northman or an American. In this sense, this can easily be a new form of social dumping. The solutions are not just to create temporary shielding arrangements nationally when we enter an enlarged EEA, but it's actually international agreements that take care of this dimension, and it's an important piece. That's how Friedman describes it: this is the world we're actually living in now, and we need to create political solutions to exploit the possibilities. The starting point for the message on globalisation, which we are dealing with today, is that we are living today in a value of opportunities. What the message has as a header is a good starting point. The political challenge is to enable each individual to benefit from all the opportunities offered by globalisation. This is an approach agreed by the entire Committee and with which the Committee is preparing its comments. Globalisation is that the media, thoughts and ideas, trade, industry and communications bind the vast majority of the world closer together than ever before. The idea of man's inherent value, and human rights, emerge as an ideal over most of the world. I would say that this valuable part of globalisation is extremely positive. Someone has claimed that fighting for human rights all over the world is a form of western cultural imperialism. In that case, there's some kind of cultural imperialism I think we can be proud of. The progress of electronic communications over the last few years has been enormous. We can easily talk to people, by phone or e-mail, over most of the globe. It happens at a low cost, so today there are many common people talking across the board, not just the elite, as it was before. Such contact binds us together, and creates understanding between people who live and live in very different places. At the same time, we must not put our heads in the sand and just talk about everything that is fine with globalisation, it is also challenges. In the Sem Declaration, the Government says this: ‘In the globalised era, the world is united on difficult challenges. Environmental problems, poverty and international terrorism are serious threats. International cooperation and international institutions are becoming increasingly important in seeking joint responses to common challenges, both regionally and globally. The co-operation administration wants Norway to play an active role internationally in meeting these challenges through international agreements, assistance and security policy cooperation.’;» The Christian People's Party does not belong to those who say that globalisation and internationalisation are the causes of poverty, but the solution to the poverty problem must be found in a globalised value through international cooperation, whether it be trade, development aid or environmental problems. There are also most parts that have been merged in the configuration. When it comes to what has been going on in the debate earlier today on the WTO, we must agree that we need a world trade that is both free and fair. Of course, trade is not an end in itself, but it is an instrument for economic development. But what has the WTO negotiations shown us? Indeed, the strongest demand from developing countries is just market access, especially for agricultural products. The need to remove export subsidians and minimise agricultural subsidians is also central. If developing countries do not become even more dependent on assistance, they must be exported. It gives the opportunity to take responsibility for its development. If any of the developing countries' own representatives are provoked by it, it is the defence of our customs walls under the cover of the ‘volt argument’ and ‘unland its best’. When the things in Cancún even broke, it was, as the case-speaker has said, because a group of countries in the south, with Brazil's leader Lula at the head, would not find themselves in the configuration of the western countries. What countries in the south require more than anything else is freer access to sell their goods. They want more and freer trade, not less. But they also demand that it be done in a fair way. Local and domestic markets are important, the same is true of regional markets and so-called South-South trade. But it cannot replace world market access. Exclusion of agriculture from international trade could damage the fight against poverty. Developing countries themselves are very clear. But when that is said, it is also necessary to say one more thing, and it is that trade alone will not solve this if there is no one who sympathizes that developing countries are able to build an infrastructure that can last this trade. In fact, the only organisation in Norway that has made sure that something happens is agricultural cooperation. They have a big project in Mozambique where they build infrastructure and create quality assurance systems that enable us to import. So we want a whole-hearted thinking here. I think we're going to have to join an alliance with the U countries to give them rights. But at the same time, we have to be involved in building up infrastructure. We have to realise that opening our borders to every country leads to the primary export of industrialised countries to us, and that we are going to import from them. For this reason, it is absolutely necessary that one here enters into a dialogue and cooperation where one primarily builds up export subsidians throughout the Western world. The MUL countries have already had access, and now it is the second poorest that must first be given the chance. Here a conversion must take place over time. It's a big challenge, and here it's not just useful to go down into the shooter's grave and shoot each other. I and the Christian People's Party would like to welcome developing countries to be more able to export – not by naïve decisions, but by thoughtful decisions that can maintain food security and good national agriculture. At the same time, we have to turn the imports we have, almost 50 pst., over to get him from u-country instead of from i-country, as today.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-05.ana.ud2486e490	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-05.ana.ud2486e493	There have been a few strange points in the debate. The only discussion is whether it is best to control as much as possible or as much as possible. The interesting thing is, of course, who controls, and how one controls. It's Lilletun definitely written in. I also think Jon Lilletun has agreed that the question of Tobin tax is not a question of Tobin tax or nothing, but of being willing to discuss international global taxation to finance, for example. The United Nations, and a cheap Tobin tax can be a possibility. Other possibilities are also mentioned in the setting, and if I know the Christian People's Party and Lilletun right, then believe the Christian People's Party and Lilletun that we should look for and find global tax arrangements to finance the UN – and other international institutions, possibly. Lilletun is also not part of the group that rejects international global taxation for such purposes.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-05.ana.ud2486e498	This line goes under the category of taking everything in the best sense, and I want to clearly confirm what the representative of Blankenburg says, and it applies not only to the Christian People's Party, but it actually applies to the plurality, all but the Progress Party. The setting reads as follows: ‘The majority believe that it is good that the Government has a positive basic attitude to creative proposals that can contribute to strengthening the funding of actions to safeguard global public goods. Like the Government, the majority do not consider the lack of mechanisms and mechanisms for financing common resources to be the main challenge. The main challenge is to mobilise sufficient political support and resources already in place.’ Furthermore, the majority will open to assess carbon taxes and other creative solutions. The setting is made clear. [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-05.ana.ud2486e511	The president understands that.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-05.ana.ud2486e514	I have the same problem as Jon Lilletun in that particular area, so I get to keep up with the time here. Jon Lilletun now talked about this with a greater degree of trade and purchase of groceries from poor developing countries, and that it was a little naive to think that it would solve things. He also said that we need food security. We're always going to check that we have food safety. When I listened to Lilletun, it reminded me of the story that one goes up with a manuscript, and then it says in the script a little note: bad argumentation – raise the voice! That is what Jon Lilletun did. This applies equally to farmers in poor developing countries as to Norwegians, they must have paid for their goods in order to obtain income to invest and perhaps expand their business. And when you get too poorly paid in these countries so you can't survive, it goes wrong. I would like to ask Lilletun: does he not see that it would make sense for Norway to open up much more to buy food from the poor developing countries than what we are doing today, just to ensure that they receive income for a natural extension of their business?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-05.ana.ud2486e523	The contents of that line made me wonder if I had raised my voice so high that the representative Hagen didn't hear what I said, because that's exactly what I said, as he asked, that we had to implement the MUL decision we've already done. It's a long step, as this government has taken, to make sure that it's the poor countries that benefit from it. That's why we started a system that actually works. The second is that I believe in increased trade, and I think we should open up more for the developing countries. But first of all, we have to take away export subsidians, which are really the great Western imperialism in relation to the developing world. But so: To believe – and I'm going to admit that here I had a certain index finger – that it solves its problems without us looking into other measures, that's not true. If we analyze what happened after the MUL decision, we see that the only people who have actually done something here are the Agricultural Cooperation. They've been trying to help make it an infrastructure for poor farmers in the developing world that allows them to export to Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-05.ana.ud2486e530	It is not often that representatives of the Christian People's Party are heard standing on the pulpit of the Stortinget and talking about imperialism. When Lilletun pointed to one form of imperialism, I'm going to point to another form, and it's the u-lands debt. The Committee has pointed out in its opinion that there is an international debate on whether parts of the debt in the developing world can be regarded as illegitimate because, for example: is taken up by dictators or on manifestly unfair terms. We also have a situation where the President of Argentina has stopped payments of substantial parts of the country's debt to American banks. We also know that many developing countries are in debt to Norway. In Norway, in the autumn of 2002, a civil court was established, which has also observed internationally, where part of the debt of the developing countries to Norway was assessed illegitimately and where the tribunal recommended that it be abolished unconditionally. My question is whether the representative Lilletun agrees that parts of Norway's foreign debt can be called illegitimate and that such debt should be removed.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-05.ana.ud2486e544	It was nice to be able to help the representative Lysbakken get right that we both know the word imperialism, know what it is, and have always wanted to fight it. In the case of illegitimate debt, there is no doubt that much of the debt contracted by developing countries should not have been drawn up by dictators or others. But now we have an international system for the recognition of states, and we have international funding organisations like the World Bank and others that follow the international recognition system for states. If one were to start debt cancellation on the basis of its own definition, we would have significant problems when countries are going to take up debt. So we'll probably find countries that we don't see are 100 pst. Democratic, but which we have to admit is in a good phase, and stopping borrowing would be bad. It shows the complexity of the problem itself. So I hope we can back up what's going on in the debt field, and then look for new methods, but it's not as simple as the representative Lightbaking said.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-05.ana.ud2486e551	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-05.ana.ud2486e554	The concept of globalisation means very different things for different people, depending on your position. For most of us, the world is experiencing ever less and more opportunities, but for too many, globalisation has led to further marginalisation, unemployment, poverty and environmental degradation. After all, economic globalisation has slowed down in the last few decades. Liberalisation ideology has had wind in the sails and counter-representations have been pushed into the background. The government's globalisation message bears the mark of the same weakness. The growing movement that criticises the consequences of this liberalisation is not highlighted in the Communication. It is alarming that the message can jump over the contribution of the globalisation-critical movement, because it is in fact this one that represents the new political debate. We see new lines of conflict and new global alliances that set the agenda. The objections of the globalisation-critical movement are important and legitimate, and should not have been overlooked by sea. Having said that, I also believe that the country's largest opposition party, with the case rapporteur for this communication, is acting with many speeches and little political will to act in the context of globalisation. Clearly, there is no political majority in this country who are willing to address the negative consequences of globalisation. I feel that the other parties regard globalisation as a law of nature. Globalization has become a blank mandate to wash their hands, an excuse for not ruling. There is a complaint that the democratic governance of the nation state is weakening, while voluntarily and with open eyes handing over power to undemocratic international organisations and governance with zero democratic legitimacy. The popular uprising against this discharge had to come, and it grows stronger. The idea of globalisation as inevitable, as a law of nature, which the majority in this Chamber communicates, creates popular frustration and political contempt. It is the great challenge of our time to reconquer political governance. The nation state is anchored by democracy. Without the national State as a framework, there are no institutional solutions that adequately safeguard democratic legitimacy. In addition, the world needs representative, transparent and effective global institutions. Globalisation has increased the need for a global arena for conflict and problem solving. In the opinion of the Centre Party, only the United Nations can address these concerns. Only the UN has the necessary legitimacy, since the UN decision-making mechanisms are democratically sound from the point of view of the nation state. Obviously, the UN needs to be reformed and streamlined in order to act with the necessary efficiency and weight. In our remarks, we present some of the reforms that we believe are necessary, including the restriction of the right to veto and the establishment of an economic and social security council. In addition, we believe that the World Trade Organisation must be subordinate to the UN. I note that, in particular, the Workers' Party's rapporteur for the communication is concerned with clarifying the role of the United Nations in relation to the regionalisation that we experience in the world community. In this debate, I experience a significant degree of schizophrenia. We want the UN as the strong international anchor, while saying that regional integration is a strengthening of global governance. In my opinion, this is a misunderstanding. The EU and other regional institutions are not power neutral building blocks in a global structure. They are trading blocks that, in given contexts, pose a threat rather than an instrument of global governance. Furthermore, the focus on regional block formations ignores the focus and resources of global capacity building. On Wednesday's Evening Post, the rapporteur, Mr Igland, said that 'the EU is really a political response to globalisation'. While it is true that the EU, as a trading bloc, is better equipped in global turbocapitalism, the EU is undermining the possibility of global cooperation between equivalent democratic nation states. I spend some time in my post on the Workers' Party media play on globalisation this week, because the find words presented are not in line with reality. Igland in Dagbladet on 2 March states that: ‘the rebellion against the neoliberalism that has ridden the world like a mare in the last two decades is now coming from below and outside’. Yes, I fully agree with that. But why do we have this ignorance of these forces in connection with the communication? And, not least, why are the critical and marginalized voices in the world's society being ignored or ridiculed when this room formulates practical policies that could remedy the worst adverse effects? In the Norwegian economy, there is an almost hegemony which sees globalisation as a law of nature and international liberalisation as a natural good. The obvious example of this is the WTO debate. Negotiations in Cancún collapsed because the Western countries refused to park the so-called Singapore themes, which meant liberalisation in further new areas. Developing countries were clear opponents of this. After Cancún, a number of politicians have pushed the uprising of developing countries to their breasts. However, the majority in this Chamber is silent about the fact that Norway did not at all object to including Singapore themes in the negotiations, nor did Norway press for the liberalisation of, among others, education services in a number of poor countries, despite strong resistance from the countries of the sea. In fact, in the comments on the notification, the Central Party is alone with the SV to demand that Norwegian authorities oppose the centralisation of Singapore issues in the WTO negotiations. Despite the fact that the rapporteur, Mr Jagland, is praising President Lula's resistance to the Singapore themes in a chronicle in the Dagbladet Tuesday, it is not the will of the Workers' Party to take a Norwegian position in principle against including them in the negotiations. The majority wrongly claims that market access was the most important requirement for developing countries in the WTO. The main requirement of these countries was fairer trade, and the MUL countries required to maintain their preferential status. The majority of the majority of the population, with the government parties and the Labour Party at the head, ignore this. The importance of developing countries has become a mantra to defend their liberalisation, but they have not listened to what the developing countries actually say. In reality, the general reduction of barriers to trade to which it is addressed will be a scourge for the poorest countries. They will lose the advantage they have today, for example. of zero to Norway. That's the 10 pst. the cross-border agricultural production of the world, which should be regulated by international trade agreements. However, the WTO also intervenes in the regulation of conditions relating only to the production of agricultural products for national consumption. The vast majority of developing countries, including Norway, have low levels of maritime supply of agricultural products, and we are fighting a common fight to maintain national and local production. The main measure for this is to end the export subsidies on agricultural products from the West. When the EU and the United States agreed on a joint proposal before Cancún, this became provocative for many developing countries, when the proposal did not go far enough in cutting export aid. In addition, a cut in customs protection was proposed in developing countries, which would weaken their own food production for their own consumption. For developing countries, it will be important to have an alliance with industrialised countries in order to allow a new agreement based on principles other than those used by large exporters. We must contribute to this. In addition, rich countries, such as Norway, need to increase imports of food from developing countries, where they have profits, instead of importing from rich countries. At present, Norway has zero customs duties on products from the least developed countries, but high export subsidies on EU and US products do not make developing countries competitive on the Norwegian market. In fact, imports have fallen. There are opportunities to limit the adverse effects of economic globalisation. The adverse effects of currency speculation came to our attention in the autumn of 1997, when national economies came to an end with disastrous consequences, especially for the millions of South-East Asian and South American workers affected. The proposal for a tax on currency transactions, popularly called Tobin tax, has become a popular claim since then. We know that several countries have taken action to reduce their vulnerability in this area, including Venezuela, Chile and Malaysia. The Central Party also does not believe that it is ideal to impose such measures unilaterally for individual countries, but emphasises that if there is a will, action is feasible. I note that no other parties support the Centre Party and regret that the Government has rejected the proposal for such sales fees. In this area too, the debate on globalisation is full of festivities, while there is a lack of real political will. A wide range of UN reports, most recently from the ILO, have concluded that globalisation contributes to the increasing world disparities. This is true both within and between countries. Our biggest global challenge is to smooth out between north and south. So we are not able to solve this challenge without the will to control today's globalisation. The majority say that the goal of global trade cooperation is ‘a more free’ world trade. It can hardly be said more clearly. If free trade is an objective in itself, it is not surprising that the debate is both diabolical and superficial. The center party believes the goal must be a fairer trade, as the ability to include all the millions of people who are marginalized in the world economy. To succeed in this requires a greater degree of control and will to see things pragmatically and not just ideologically. This lacks it today.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-05.ana.ud2486e595	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-05.ana.ud2486e598	According to UNDP, the OECD countries provide $1 billion a day in support of agriculture. It is more than six times as much as the same countries provide development aid to the poor countries. 70 pst. by the population of developing countries is working in the agricultural sector, but they are uncompetitive by the policies of the rich countries. The centre party is the only party to a reduction in internal, trade-distorting aid and increased market access for developing countries, which are their main requirements. As is well known, the opening of the MUL countries here to countries has not led to any imports. The pressure from developing countries is now rising sharply, and they are much more united than before. And Norway, as one of the richest countries in the world, does not come in the same category as the developing countries, as the Central Party sometimes seems to believe. Wouldn't it be wise for the Centre Party to call for a switch to a more non-national policy, as all other parties do in this setting?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-05.ana.ud2486e607	What I fully agree with Mr Eyeågen's representative is that export subsidies should be removed. It is those who create the greatest problems for farmers in the Third World, and there it should be done far more from the Western part of the world. The representative of Gunhild Eyering, like so many others in this debate, makes it a mistake that she refers to the group of developing countries as a unified group. They know better. They know it's not like that. They know that the group of developing countries consists of countries with very different interests and with very different requirements in the WTO negotiations. The Central Party is convinced that poor people, farmers in the Third World, will be most useful in developing a national agricultural policy in these countries that takes account of the challenges and needs of each country. And the challenges are different for the different developing countries, depending on their level of development.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-05.ana.ud2486e617	The leader of the centre party is not happy in festivities, and in this way she is consistent, for she is constantly practicing the opposite genre, thunderspeaker. There's not much partyivitas to hear when the Center Party describes the world's greed, so to speak. But what strikes me is that the will to act decreases the closer you get to the conditions you have influence over. It's always easy to rule on behalf of others and in terms of the relationships you don't have influence over, and tell how people should have done it. But now, in fact, the Center Party has some influence on Norwegian industrial policy, even the most sensitive part of Norwegian industrial policy seen from the poor part of the world. It is striking when the leader of the Central Party believes that he knows very much better than the developing countries themselves what serves their ends. Does not Åslaug Haga think that the developing countries are entitled to the same respect as others, namely that they are allowed to decide what they themselves think?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-05.ana.ud2486e624	I love to hold parties, but in some areas it's not a basis for doing so. And I'm going to reserve the right to give thunderous speeches on issues related to the cushioning between the poor and the rich. We are in a situation where we have a global economic system, where at least 1.2 billion people fall outside what is the welfare development in which we others are allowed to participate. It's a development that I don't have the ability to hold celebrations. Neither No Wages nor I should say that we have any kind of right to know what other countries mean. So it's just as wrong for Inge Wohnning to say that all poor countries want the most liberal trade policy in the world, as it must be wrong for me to say that nobody does. What I'm taking as a starting point is that there are very many developing countries, net importers of food, who have exactly the same interests as us.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-05.ana.ud2486e633	Many critics of globalisation have important points, which, of course, we must take seriously, but it is not surprising that much of the criticism that arises is influenced by protectionism. And there's a feeling I'm unfortunately left with after hearing the representative Åslaug Haga. To challenge once again in relation to agricultural subsidies, the majority of the Committee, all with the exception of the Centre Party, says that rich countries must ‘reduce the distortive internal support’. Will not Åslaug Haga agree with me that it is all U-country agree that Norway should do?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-05.ana.ud2486e643	What would be a wise policy with regard to trade in agricultural products, trade in food, is to make a distinction between production for national consumption and production for export. Trade in food is unproblematic at the moment that a country has done its utmost to feed its own population. It's also a fact that we import 50 pst. of the food that we eat here in the country. It is creating that distinction, which is the constructive solution to meet the formidable challenges we face today in the WTO. That distinction was contained in the original negotiating positions with Norway. Unfortunately, they're about to disappear. There is not one country in the world that has come out of its poverty problems by exporting food. If the representative of Høglund can give me one example that it has actually contributed in the long term that countries specialize in exporting food, I accept that example. But it doesn't exist.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-05.ana.ud2486e650	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-05.ana.ud2486e653	This is the most exciting debate of the year in Stortinget. Regieringas St.meld. No 19 for 2002-2003 with the striking name ‘A World of Opportunities — The Age of Globalisation and its Challenges’ provides us with a good basis for debate on the opportunities and challenges of globalisation. Globalisation is the greatest political challenge of our time. The liberal value base of the left is a good platform for having this discussion. The left is fundamentally positive to globalisation. We think it is positive that the world is getting smaller, that national borders are becoming less important, and that human interaction across borders is increasing. The left believes that Norway must actively work for and not against globalisation. We must participate internationally and not let the opportunities of globalisation go beyond us. At the same time, we must help to find common answers to the challenges of globalisation, and we must work actively in international forums to ensure that as many of the world's people as possible participate in the opportunities of globalisation. The left has had globalisation as the theme of the party in the last year. The process has shown that there is a great deal of commitment around the global challenges. The left's answer is to find good policy solutions and more global policies. A party that is now trying to take part in the debate on globalisation is the Progress Party. In one of the country's weekly newspapers, Morten Höglund, launched the new foreign policy doctrine of the party last week. ‘We will appear to be more liberal,’ says Høglund. And as a clear liberal, I read the article with interest. When I read the article and see the comments of the Progress Party on the globalisation message, it becomes very clear to me that there is no liberal value anchoring. I understand again why the Progress Party is not part of the International Liberal Party family, and I can promise that the Left will not allow that to happen either. It is clear that the historical anchoring of democracy that most political parties have is lacking in the Progress Party when, among other things, they comment on it. writes: ‘The Party of Foreign Ministers is negative to the current position that globalisation must be managed in order to deliver better results.’ They also say, ‘These members believe that globalisation is happening from the inside, even though many are applying for solutions in all possible letter combinations. [[EU, IMF, WB, UN, UNCTAD, OECD]] When they write this, they show a total lack of understanding of the need for international cooperation and democracy today. The international political framework has been a prerequisite for those who have been the drivers of globalisation. Is the Progress Party opposed to an international political framework, which is a prerequisite for the international market economy? The Progress Party believes that the economy would have worked better in Norway if we had removed the Competition Authority, competition law, credit institutions, etc.? The Progress Party notes the Kyoto Protocol, the Convention on Biological Diversity, the UN Convention against Corruption and the establishment of the International Criminal Court. This is playing completely on the sidelines of international questions and has nothing to do with liberal values. This policy is reflected in the most extreme hawks on the extreme right wing of American politics. Nor is the Progress Party concerned about the growing international isolation of the United States and the increased use of so-called ‘hard power’. Is it alone and the law of the strongest that is the foreign policy of the Progress Party? Is there a world without international rules that is the alternative of the Advance Party? I could have said as the Democratic Presidential candidate John Kerry said about George Bush: George Bush has driven the most invincible, hazardous and arrogant foreign policy in modern history. I could also have used the description of the Progress Party and Morten Höglund here. Respect for individuals and responsibility for the community are the basic ideas of social liberal ideology. It is natural for us in the Left to see the value of the individual also in a global perspective. The world citizen is our starting point. In a liberal perspective, the degradation of human boundaries is an objective in itself. The left's vision is therefore a world where people can live, work and educate wherever they want. Globalisation results in a meeting of cultures and an exchange of experiences. Similarly, it is positive that knowledge of each other provides a basis for friendship and exchange in global cultural diversity. Today, the world lacks a comprehensive, predictable and representative structure that can meet the democratic and legal challenges created by the ever-increasing globalisation. The Left's vision is a global community, based on equal rights and obligations for all, both states and individuals. Respect for the individual and the communities in which they participate voluntarily requires an international society in which justice and not power are the crucial principle. The left has faith in obliging cooperation rather than isolation in addressing future global challenges. In order to ensure human rights, democracy and fair development worldwide, we need to strengthen international institutions, legislation and cooperation bodies. Trade has always been an important driver of economic development and well-being. There is an ever-increasing cross-border trade. It is mainly linked to western products and services and not to the core products of the least developed countries, the MUL countries, which are still largely based on agricultural products. The left wants to contribute to a trade regime that promotes fair trade. In order to achieve a greater balance, it is necessary to provide a positive treatment for LDCs and to avoid the large food producers taking all market shares. The WTO is the main player at international level regulating trade. In order to ensure global fair trade, it may be a good idea for the WTO to be expanded with global competition surveillance. Clean environment and sustainable management of natural resources are the very basis of life on earth, economic development and the welfare of individuals. The environment knows no sector or country boundaries. Moreover, it must be profitable to act in such a way that the environment and resources do not deteriorate for the coming generations. Today, the national State that has the right of access to natural resources is within its defined limits. However, these resources need to be managed globally. Scientific and technological developments can be one key to addressing these environmental challenges. In this perspective, it is central that research and development of this type of technology is stimulated. The government of the left went in December to support the idea of an international environmental tax — primarily for air transport. This is also referred to in positive terms by a majority of the Foreign Affairs Committee, all except the Progress Party, of course. Norway is the only country which has introduced a national CO2 tax on air transport. The left considers that a similar global environmental tax on air transport can be an important incentive to reduce pollutant emissions. Revenue should go to the UN, which can help reduce the poverty challenge. There are a lot of areas I would like to go into this article. Security policy and development policy are areas that should have been affected by a debate on the challenges and opportunities of globalisation. My main message here today has been that globalisation is primarily positive for the world's countries and peoples. Globalisation challenges need to be addressed through global cooperation and policy. We in the Left have long been champions of more local democracy. Similarly, we will be strong champions of more global democracy in the time to come. The debate on globalisation can be demanding for all of us. It is not always as easy to find answers to such demanding challenges. I can see in this connection that it might be striking to end with a quote from the comments of the Progress Party on the message: ‘These members understand that it is difficult to join the turns, especially for those intellectuals who are used to having an overview and control of life.’ In one area, at least I found something I could support in the comments of the Progress Party!
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-05.ana.ud2486e698	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-05.ana.ud2486e701	It was a strong response to the Advancement Party and our comments. We have to live well with that. We were accused of our view of the United States. The Committee as such is committed to building links between the United States and Europe and the United States of America and Norway and is therefore very constructive. What we thought was unfortunate was to make a unilateral criticism of the United States. The U.S. can be criticised too much – I believe that in the past the United States could be widely criticised for being absent from the international arena. That they now take responsibility, which we believe is positive, we should not criticise them for. Should we go into an international criticism of countries that are neglecting, the other countries we would rather be criticizing. I can mention two, China and Iran. If we were to make a condemnation of international states, the United States is not at the top of our ranking list of countries we want to condemn or hate, even if it is allowed to correct a index finger again and again.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-05.ana.ud2486e708	It's no goal to have the United States as the great enemy. What was my point was that we need democratic, international structures. We need international agreements, and as a small country in the world, we need both democracy and structures. Now we're in a world where there's almost one superpower. Having a critical opposition to that superpower is also healthy for that superpower. I also think it is important that we, as a small country, must fight for the international structures, the international agreements, so that international democracy is strengthened. That's definitely our task to do. My criticism of the Progress Party on this point is that they are trying to present it as a liberal foreign policy not to want international structures. It's not.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-05.ana.ud2486e715	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-05.ana.ud2486e718	What is globalisation? It is shifting decision-making powers away from the nation state and beyond to global and regional actors. The aim is to promote the free movement of goods, services and capital across borders. Some might argue that regional units, such as The EU is not part of globalisation. However, as long as the EU focuses on building up the nation state and promoting free movement, the Union will only act as a stage in the path to further globalisation. Some would argue that globalisation is a kind of natural phenomenon that forces itself and that one just has to accept. But the fact is that globalisation is the result of political decisions at national and international level. Such decisions may be reversed if the political will is present. The Coastal Party is committed to maintaining and strengthening the nation-state as the most effective protector of the economic, social and democratic rights of its own citizens. By ensuring the right of the national State to have its own natural resources, it provides the basis for a local business life in which dividends benefit its own population. The national country is best placed to distribute the resources of society fairly. The Coastal Party wishes international cooperation between independent and state-run nation states. We will contribute to the development of international contract works that strengthen and do not weaken the national state's ability to ensure its own citizens a decent life and contribute to sustainable and democratic development. For the Coastal Party, it is natural to highlight international maritime law as a good example of a treaty that strengthens the nation-state. This gives each coastal State full access to the resources of an economic zone of 200 nautical miles off the coast. Thus, the coastal State has a self-interest in managing fishing resources in a sustainable manner. In the EU, this principle is violated by exempting individual Member States from the administrative right to fish. This leads everyone to fight against everyone about the fish in the common EU zone. The result is overfishing and the destruction of fish stocks. The EU also violates the intention of the Sea Law Agreement by purchasing fishing rights in the economic zone of poor African countries. The Labour Party, the Progress Party and the Government Parties are based on the continuation of Norwegian membership of the EEA. It involves the free movement of goods, services, capital and workers in an internal EU market of 450 million people. They are thus involved in a globalisation project that makes Norway a vassal state of the EU. The Coastal Party wants a Norwegian exit from the EEA and the reconstruction of Norway as an independent country. The Coastal Party wants a world trade that allows for a natural exchange of goods and certain services. For example, Norway has: large fish production, while other countries have a high need to buy fish products on the international market. There are countless examples of such mutual commercial interests that do not undermine the sovereignty of each country. It should be possible to organise world trade so that the rich countries with subsidised exports do not compete with poor countries. It should be possible to establish driving rules for trade in agricultural products which respect the legitimate rights of all countries to have their own agricultural production. It should be possible to find common rules for a sustainable business, so that industrial emissions of a country do not destroy the environment and the income base of other countries. Trade in services and capital should be regulated in such a way that national ownership of key enterprises is not made impossible and that individual countries cannot be bankrupt because of pure currency speculation. The cross-border flow of labour should be greatly reduced. Countries with high capital surpluses should rather invest in poor countries and provide work to people there, rather than importing cheap labour – that is, moving capital, not people. The Committee's comment on the progress made by the Party includes a strong defence for liberalisation and deregulation at all levels. It is claimed that the higher the degree of economic liberalism you have in a country, the more likely it is to reach a high level of prosperity. But the truth is that countries with a centre-oriented mixed economy have a much higher standard of living than countries with a right-wing liberal market economy, or a left-wing socialist command economy – let's call it the plan economy. In the Coastal Party, we are proud of the Norwegian mixed economy that allows market forces to operate within a political framework. It allows the maintenance of the welfare state without breaking private initiative and private ownership. The Coastal Party wants an independent Norway to be an example of follow-up for other countries, rather than subjecting ourselves to international market forces. There is a way out of the globalization of human beings. It is that the national State withdraws its right to safeguard the legitimate interests of its citizens.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-05.ana.ud2486e751	The Globalisation Communication shows that the reduction of borders and the internationalisation of production and trade have brought with them a great deal of success. But progress also involves new challenges that need to be met with new political grips. The most important thing is that globalisation has broken the framework of national political governance and the serious environmental challenges that increased economic growth has brought about because the economy has not sufficiently taken up environmental costs. We need to shift towards sustainable development, where the fight against poverty must continue to be central. If development is to be controlled, it is important to have a realistic relationship with the forces that affect development. Technological developments have been and are the main drivers of a change that has created new production opportunities, new products and new patterns of production and trade. The policy's task is to steer the development of these forces, to ensure fair distribution and to take care of the environment and to limit other societal adverse effects. For a long time, much of the governance could take place within the framework of the nation-state. When borders are detonated and the economic forces can ignore national governance, we have two choices: we can give up governance, or we can build up international governance mechanisms. It is a democratic challenge, and it is a challenge linked to the possibilities of preventing development from coming out of control, which can, in the ultimate sense, undermine the living conditions and opportunities of future generations. Fortunately, a number of international institutions have been built to address these issues. The cooperation that has been most closely involved in the commitment of participants is EU cooperation – a cooperation which, in its objective, has now taken into account the need to see the economy in the context of the boundaries of an environment and which has taken on board the importance of the social dimension of social and welfare development. It is gratifying that a broad majority in the vote says the following: ‘Regional integration also creates new opportunities for interregional cooperation.’ And on the other hand, ‘This is an additional way to strengthen global governance.’ It is also a broad majority, in which the Christian People's Party and the Left are members, who point to the importance of EU cooperation for security and development in Europe and who believe that ‘support for regional integration in several parts of the world should be part of the agenda for building better global security, cooperation and governance’. The representative of Åslaug Haga said that it is a misunderstanding that the EU can be a regional building block in a global governance. However, the Centre Party, together with SV, states in its own note that ‘regional cooperation at an intergovernmental level is important for promoting political, economic and cultural cooperation between countries’. Is it then the obligation to do what is agreed on, which is part of EU cooperation, that makes the EU as unfit as a building block in a better global governance of development? Is not cooperation where countries undertake to do what they agree on more effectively to govern forces that are no longer governed within a single country than cooperation where individual countries are free to follow up what they have to agree on? History has shown that it is the big countries that can choose their own way, often at the expense of the small ones. Therefore, small countries should be most concerned about achieving the highest possible commitments in international cooperation, regional as a whole. We can all have our desires about what the world should be like to get more justice, greater security and better well-being for all people. But like the small country we are, we have to deal with the real world. When, in other words, all other countries in our own part of the world have opted for EU cooperation as a form of cooperation, our choice will be limited. Either we can go into and participate in the same political arena as the others and work for our interests and our ideas there, or we can stand outside, without co-determination and political influence, accept the second decision and only accept the impact this has on our own opportunities and our own development – also for our ability to influence the global international situation. It is clear from the wording that the Progress Party believes that globalisation should not be confronted with new governance structures. However, the fact that the SV and the Central Party, which in national policy are strongly involved in political governance, both in large and in small, do not recognise the very importance of the binding structure of EU cooperation in order to recover important parts of the governance lost in the age of globalisation in our own continent is quite incomprehensible.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-05.ana.ud2486e789	Globalisation is much more than economic interaction. Just as fully, it is precisely this interaction that is to a large extent the driving force behind globalisation. A more open world where people, goods, services and capital can move freely is fundamentally positive for me. It is worth noting that among the 117 selected countries, as I mentioned in a reply earlier, growth between 1970 and 1989 was three to six times higher in countries with liberal trade regimes than in countries with protectionist. UNDP even calls trade barriers to development barriers. Annually, u-country loses $7,000 billion because they are not free to sell their goods on the international market. It's ten times as much as goes to u-help together for the whole world. Only the customs duties levied by Norway from developing countries amount to NOK 2.2 billion. That's enough to satisfy 220,000 people for a whole year. There are no better instruments in the fight against poverty than just economic growth. I find it extremely contradictory when representatives of the extreme left wing are attacked by international trade and, at the same time, speak warmly of poverty reduction. Economic history and statistics clearly show that increased trade is increasing economic growth and thus reducing poverty. Bangladesh’s industrial minister, Tofail Ahmed, said that without the rich countries opening up their markets to the commodities of the developing countries, there will never be a sustainable business in developing countries. At the same time, we know that Mexico's former socialist president expressed his opinion on this – the majority then sat in and followed the WTO negotiations in Seattle in 1999, while a small minority of white middle-class young people were out demonstrating to stop the negotiations – and felt that the negotiations were absolutely for the benefit of developing countries. Without trade and economic growth, countries like Bangladesh will never have a chance of taking a step out of poverty. Increased globalisation and free trade also provide us as citizens with a number of opportunities while placing clear limits on a country's system of governance. There is a clear link between economic development and prosperity and the country's governance and respect for fundamental human rights. Turkey's suspension of the death penalty, a stronger civil society without fear of military interference and greater respect for human rights are largely due to the country's zeal for EU membership, which a large majority of the population sees as something that will benefit them financially. China is one of the countries that have undergone a dramatic opening up of their own economy in the last 20 years. This opening has led to changes in China's civil societies and regimes, while lifting millions of people out of poverty. Nevertheless, it is terribly far from a democratic China. Trade and economic dependence are the absolute best tools in the fight against dictatorship, while isolation leads to increased poverty and more desperate regimes. The people of Zimbabwe have just noticed that. From their independence to the late 1990s, the country was one of the major exporters of agricultural products in Africa. Now more than half of the country's population depends on external food aid. President Mugabe and his regime must take the majority of the blame for this. The growth of an opposition and isolation internationally has led to the president introducing one of Africa’s most brutal and dictatorial regimes today. The rest of the world has a responsibility to be on the same side as all those who fight daily for freedom, democracy and human rights. This means that we need to become much clearer about taking away from regimes that do not respect fundamental rights, while at the same time strengthening the reward of states that show willingness to change. Kenya is a good example of a country that has gone from having a single president to now having a parliament composed according to the will of the people, and with power and authority. Kenya's entry into the ranks of democracies could mean the beginning of a better future for its people. Democratic countries now need to pay greater rewards for such developments, while at the same time we must take a greater distance from punishing politically through trade agreements and economic assistance countries that are violating the same rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-05.ana.ud2486e802	Globalisation provides a world of opportunities and challenges, but also limits in the form of totalitarian governance sets and systems that promote corruption and repression of its own population. This message is a road map characterised by the fact that, in many cases, the terrain is not taken into account when building new roads. The progress party believes that the message is marked by control and control, and history has shown that it does not lead to progress, but stagnation. If we are to be able to take advantage of the opportunities offered by globalisation, people must be given the freedom to use their abilities freely. If progress is to be made, individual people must be free to make their own decisions for themselves and their own, and public governance must be limited to the best of the community in the neighbourhood where people live. However, globalisation also leads to an increase in the prosperity of individual trade between countries and peoples. Therefore, it is important that no obstacles are put in place to such development. History shows that where governments have been in charge of a socialist system, this has led to stagnation, corruption and poverty, while in countries with economic freedom, growth, prosperity and longerevity have been accelerated. Open markets and the ability to manage their own income are important for making progress. It also appears that in countries with a liberal economy, greater equality is created between citizens, while in countries that have abstained from liberalisation, developments have remained silent. Bureaucracies are also involved in creating stagnation and corruption where power lies with self-appointed authorities. Therefore, it is important that globalisation leads to private property rights and opportunities to obtain work of its own, without any obstacles being placed in the way of individual countries. Time does not allow me to go into detail on the cause and effect, but I would like to refer to the comments of the Progress Party, which highlights more in-depth our views. Countries ruled by political oppression, corruption, plan economy and protectionism are condemned to lose in a globalized world. There are also examples of how aid from so - called rich countries to poor countries has led to a greater distinction between poor and rich by spending money in the hands of the government. Another area that inhibits growth is civil wars, terrorist activities, disasters and inequalities between peoples. Here the so-called industrialised countries have a responsibility to contribute to the respect of human rights through cross-border cooperation in order to exert pressure on the responsible authorities. A people who are oppressed and who are not free to believe, think and say what they want, can never evolve to be in harmony with themselves and their surroundings, which in turn leads to the most primitive way of resolving conflicts, namely the use of weapons and terror. But we in the west should also be careful to believe that our solution to how we live is the best for everyone. The natural conditions in a country may differ from ours and require other solutions. In my opinion, the best development will take place in a country where individual people are respected regardless of their skin color, their faith and their cultural background. Then it is my hope that one day we will have a globalized world in peace and deportability, with opportunities and hope for all.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-05.ana.ud2486e815	The concept of globalization is actually a cover-up concept as discussed today. In the message, it sometimes seems that we have had some kind of God-given technologically driven process that has only brought about political changes without anyone, politicians or anyone else, having been able to do much with it. In reality, it's probably far more complicated than that. Globalisation and neoliberalism need not go hand in hand. What we have seen in recent years has been very much a political-driven development, with deliberate attacks on the power of democracy over the economy. The challenge, therefore, is not mainly to create new political governance bodies, but either to democratise global decision-making venues or to restore power to national and local authorities. Today, it involves the movement of power away from the nation-states, such as: the WTO or EU processes represent, dedemocratic and depoliticising important social processes. After a century of democratisation and redistribution within the framework of many nation states, powerful social forces are now serving to shift power from them to regional and global bodies lacking democratic publicity, popular organisation and re-allocation obligations. It is this, not increasing international cooperation and trade, the globalisation-critical movements that have emerged in recent years, criticises – not globalisation itself, but globalisation on the premise of unregulated and raw capitalism. Against this trend, we will maintain a vision of international cooperation that is not about regulating our societies in detail, as the EU system does with its directives on everything from the angle of roller coasters to increasingly complex competition rules, or as the WTO does when the GATS agreement opens up water and sewerage systems worldwide to free trade. The world no longer needs such political unification. Instead, we need international cooperation on the major issues, climate change, the fight against war and the speculative economy. The big paradox today is that world leaders are agreeing on increasingly comprehensive trade agreements and financial detail management instruments, but not on environmental agreements that work. It says everything about the strength conditions that globalisation has created to date. The multilateral financial institutions with the IMF and the World Bank at the forefront have been among the main policy instruments for aligning many societies towards more market liberalism. They are good examples of what kind of political governance we don't need anymore in the world. It is striking that the Government in the Communication does not at all mention the massive criticism that has been addressed in recent years, for example. The money fund. The Fund has promoted dogmatic liberalism in its view of the kind of economic policy that should be pursued in the Member States. We've seen it repeatedly in the last ten years, for example. The IMF had at least one hand on the steering wheel when, in the 1990s, Russia experienced a fall in production in line with what was being done in the Soviet Union during World War II, until the Russian government bought out of the IMF loans in 1998 and thus the commitments to follow the IMF's advice. We've seen it in relation to Argentina's disastrous monetary policy, we've seen it in the wake of the increasing criticism of the trade union post-Asia crisis, and we've seen it through the Meltzer Commission's criticism of the IMF's practice. The Meltzer Commission was a Commission that was not reduced by a bunch of socialists but by the U.S. Congress, and which concluded that the IMF provides poor and costly advice under conditions that have not created economic progress. The Committee has given some leadership in relation to the government's responsibility for Norway's action in the IMF. We're happy about that. On the SV side, we are committed to democratisation at this point, of increased influence for the developing world. One of the major disappointments of the year was that the Nordic-Baltic constituency, to which Norway belongs, voted against a reform of the IMF voting rules in favour of increased u-lands representation. There has been much mention of the Tobin tax in the debate until now, and several speakers from the Right have wondered about the support of the Workers' Party and the SV for this tax. Free capital movements have led to a dramatic change in relation to what values and forces can govern important sectors of society in the world. Over 90 pst. of all transactions between different countries are currently exchange and foreign exchange transactions and only a small proportion of goods. This has also led many countries to be exposed to a purely stock exchange governance, where what is happening on the stock exchange has a decisive influence on the framework conditions for which policies can be pursued. Tax on currency transactions can only slow this down, but it is a step in the right direction. Globalisation is no state, no natural development. It's the political power relationship that determines how humanity uses the opportunities that technology and the economy gives us. Today, these developments are increasingly taking place on the premises of capital forces and, unfortunately, often on the premises of the military apparatus of the strongest states.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-05.ana.ud2486e834	In the Christian People's Party, we are pleased that the Committee wants a global trade that is free and fair. Freer trade and more trade are important steps in the fight against poverty. At the same time, we only have to recognise that the international trade patterns that we find today, mostly on the rich countries' premises, and also in their favour. As the Christian People's Party sees it, strengthening the UN and financing development are important tools for creating a more equitable value. That is why it is so good that, in order to say the whole Committee, all but the Progress Party, it states that ‘in addition to aid... a greater degree of redistribution between the poor and the rich in the world’ is needed’ and that it is then ‘necessary to strengthen the UN and, where appropriate, other global institutions’. The called plurality is also positive to various forms of global taxation. Citations left: ‘However, the majority will be open to consider other sources of funding such as carbon taxes and other international environmental taxes’. These are revenues such as: may be used to strengthen the United Nations. The Christian People's Party has, at different conditions, a mandate for a closer assessment of a Tobin tax. However, if such a system is to be effective, it requires most countries to participate in the system. So far, this has not proved to be practicable. Many water has run in the sea since the idea of Tobin tax was launched for approx. Twenty years ago. The proposal at that time was a simple base tax of 1 pst. on the purchase and sale of currency. Some people are now talking about a ‘step-by-step tax’, a base tax of 0,01 pst. And then a high rate, maybe up to 40 pst. large races occur in a currency because of speculation and crises in currency markets. I have no ambition to propose the introduction of a Tobin tax now. However, I consider this to be a principle approach, namely that in a globalised world, it is important to have systems and mechanisms that can dampen and prevent both unfortunate and undesirable actions and reactions, while at the same time contributing to the financing of the necessary international institutions. When it mentions carbon taxes and other international environmental taxes, it is likely to be much more realistic. It is also possible to provide a logical basis for such charges, namely that globalisation and international trade are leading to increased transport. This in turn results in increased environmental emissions. Then it is reasonable that this impoverishing side of globalisation is involved in financing international institutions, such as the United States and Japan. The United Nations, and that such charges may in addition contribute to an increase in global justice, including: through development assistance. Towards the end of my speech, I must also draw attention to another important theme in the communication on globalisation, namely the fight against economic crime and for the global ethical principle. It would be quite unnecessary to argue why this is right, important and not least necessary. In the last few years, the world has experienced a race of financial scandals and economic crime. This language speaks its strong language about the need for globalisation based on safe and ethical standards. That is why it is great that a joint committee decides that global market forces must be governed by ethical principles. The Committee identifies in a commendable way a number of important measures that make this concrete. Our country has a tradition of more than a thousand years in international trade and global relations. We intend to continue, and therefore it is important that we have a well-thought-out and well-functioning foreign policy at all times. In today’s debate, some have tried to present it so that EU membership is necessary for such a development. It is a complete blank track, and it is an argument without real content. EU membership is not necessary in order for Norway to continue our long tradition of openness towards the outside world and with a broad global relationship I would rather say the opposite.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-05.ana.ud2486e863	The age of globalisation offers great opportunities for humans on earth to develop their abilities and to live good lives. Globalisation represents a major potential for the promotion of open societies and open economies, of freer exchanges, not only of goods but also of knowledge and ideas, thereby also providing a basis for greater transparency. But there are too many people in the world who have not achieved the blessings of globalisation. Since 1990, global growth has been lower than in previous decades, and the growth of the global economy has ugly pests that are neither ethically acceptable nor politically sustainable. The difference in income between people in the richest and poorest countries has grown considerably and has never been greater than today. Unemployment has never been more global. More than 1 billion people are either unemployed, underemployed, or serving only marginally for the rest of their lives. In addition, the insecurity experienced by very many workers in most countries is due to rapid change and relocation of jobs. The market and society have been globalized, but our ability to control these forces has become dependent on it. It must start at home, in each country. Each country is an important player in creating justice. Many problems relate to poor governance, corruption, misdistribution, not only of money but also of influence, work, social protection and opportunities. Active enterprise and employment policies, good education for all and respect for labour standards are important national policies. But a new international policy is needed to balance the enormous economic and social differences in the world. In particular, there is a need for changing patterns of investment and new and better world trade rules. An unfair trade policy, which hinders the access of developing countries to the markets of the rich countries and even out-competitives developing countries on their own domestic markets, cannot continue. That is why, as the developing countries themselves see it, it is vital that the WTO negotiations can soon achieve a successful outcome, which can serve the fundamental interests of these countries. I believe that the WTO, despite weaknesses, can become an important player in economic growth and social progress in the south. This presupposes increased influence on developing countries. In addition, assistance needs to be made more effective and more resource-efficient. A tax on unfortunate aspects of globalisation, such as: arms trafficking, currency speculation and/or the use of global natural resources would have provided the UN with more predictable revenues, but also much greater opportunities for a highly needed global redistribution. Now the government in the setting has given a small opening at this point, and it's positive. It was also positive to hear the views of the Christian People's Party representative, Ingebrigt Sørfonn, on this question. Globalisation in almost all areas is increasingly in need of cooperation and common solutions. It's regional, as we see it in the EU, and it's global. We need a reformed, more democratic and economically strengthened UN that can meet the challenges of the world in a more offensive way. It is particularly in three demanding areas: global distribution policies, environmental policies and security policies. But also with regard to the important reform work of the United Nations, the Government is taking a waiting stance. If globalisation is to contribute to the growth and development of people in all countries, the political good wishes must be followed up by concrete political actions. Then a powerful UN is needed. It is through a will for governance and a consciously solidarity policy of distribution, national and global, that the poor countries can work out of poverty.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-05.ana.ud2486e889	The government has wanted to invite the Stortinget to a wide-ranging debate on the challenges of globalisation, as part of a completely necessary social debate in Norway. These challenges are so wide and diverse that there may be doubts as to whether a big message can give justice to the issue. It can hardly be an attitude, and of course not a debate that goes over a few hours. I therefore accept that there must be a series of topics that are being dealt with. When I say this, it is also because one of the most central messages of the Government in this message has obviously passed both the setting and the debate house. I am very pleased that this debate has accepted that these are the possibilities that must be at the centre of the debate. I believe that a nation that leaves its concerns and protection at the centre, that does not look for the possibilities or see where the openings are, but that tackles the challenges in that way, is doomed to lose. That's why I'm glad this is the angle of incidence. Despite the fact that I put very much emphasis on formulating the title of the message, I still have to say the following: in our highly developed society, which is at the top of the standard of living, globalisation presents us with serious challenges, which, unless we deal with them, will have serious consequences for Norwegian society. That's what chapter 5 is about. That is why we invite the Stortinget to a debate on what action we are going to take at home in order for Norway to be able to take action in this open, international competition and not engage in wishful dreams of the kind of other countries, which fortunately have gone out of fashion. There's a lot of clear grip this country has to do. It's e.g. to recognise that a country’s business environment is crucial, together with the framework with which we provide our business life, and the basis on which we provide business to choose Norway as the place of economic activity. It's a struggle for capital, a struggle for being the place where economic activity takes place, and we have to give the right answer. We must be the best, so good that the activity comes here. That is the same thing as the point of leading education policy up to the top of the agenda. This little country won't be okay unless we have one of the world's best education systems, and unless we make our research work by being more extensive than it has been so far. If someone now recognizes the concept of 'tax and school' that some of us have mentioned in the election campaign, it is because it is one of the main responses to the challenges of globalisation. And there are several grips that need to be taken. These include: understanding that creativity is essential. That's why we never talk about education unless we also talk about cultural policy, because it has something to do with getting the imagination out. It has to do with creating political understanding that a society that does not dare change quickly when the challenge is there is doomed to lose. Too many times in Norway, we have sought back to the protection mechanisms, how we should avoid the changes, subsidize ourselves from them. I was in Singapore last week. There's a lot that impresses me with society in Singapore, and one thing is that when they see them coming out and losing competitiveness, they have to bet on something else. They're not trying to counteract what's coming anyway. If we don't take the debate in this area, Norwegian society won't be able to do it in an open, globalized world, and it's no alternative to go back to dreams of different societies. This is in many ways the central part of the Government's message, and I had hoped that the committee in its consideration of Chapter 5 had taken this issue. It didn't. I think that just shows that there is a need for further debate on the challenges of globalisation. I also believe that there is a need for debate on what really drives globalisation. At that point, the majority, as far as I can judge it, has made the right assessments. But it's quite alarming when the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party in the comments in the vote completely ignore how technology has driven globalisation, whether we like it or not. It's quite amazing for those who've been in this house for a few years. Everyone remembers the blows we had here in the house about the liberalisation of the telecommunications services, driven by the technology, which told us that the old way of doing things was no longer possible. We remember that in particular the Center Party, but also SV, tried to close its eyes to that development. SV gave up afterwards. The center party was well of those who kept on trying to create an alternative reality. When you read the setting here, it seems that none of those parties have learned anything from the Great Britain's debates on telecommunications services in the 1990s. It would be interesting to hear later in the debate what are really the reflections of the two parties on their role in the fundamental debate, for there is much to learn about the challenges of globalisation. It is enough that there are some things that are new conditions, new assumptions, whether politicians have decided them or not. If you don't have the ability to see it in time, the ability to realize that it's where the challenge lies, you don't have the ability to give political answers to the challenges we're facing. I would like to remind you that the challenge for Norway as a nation is: how are we to deal with this open, international competition in this open, international world? There are a lot of items that I might want to talk more about, but I see that time is running out. I should like to have had a longer debate with the committee leader, who has obviously had a nostalgic meeting with his old study circles from the AUF. The steering rhetoric is on its way back again. I just want to remind you of a few things in this context, namely that governance is important in some contexts, in the development of international legal order, for example. It is important to take some joint decisions. I would also like to remind you that much has happened wrong and strangely related to so-called political governance. There was a debate on cotton here earlier today. A typical example is how the United States and others, through political governance, try to escape the law of the market, namely that it is the developing countries that should be allowed to produce. Unfortunately, raising governance to a global level is not a guarantee that similar wrong decisions can not be made there. On the contrary, you have to be very, very aware of that. I just have to be allowed to use my last minutes to say a little bit about trade issues and WTO issues, which we've been through. Åslaug Haga correctly gave a slightly different version of how we handle the Singapore issues. But especially the first version, which came in her first line today, is simply not right, to say it very carefully. The reality is that Norway has never been hard on Singapore issues. We've thought it's right to get them involved, if there's any consensus on that, but we've always been flexible on that question. The situation is also now that virtually all countries believe that it is essentially one of the four areas that will be suitable for negotiation at that stage, namely the so-called trade facilities. The EU is still talking about two areas, but there is no doubt that this is good cooperation to find a solution to these issues. Therefore, there was no basis for the language used. It must also be said that the debate we have had on agriculture does not entirely address what is the subject of the debate. I think we definitely have a big challenge in Norway. I can assure you that when I now have quite extensive travels during this spring, it is precisely to create an understanding of the basic, namely that there must be life for Norwegian agriculture. But that means we also have to listen to where the openings are. That's why I have to say that I hope that you perceive what's being written here, and not least is said in public debates, about alliance construction and such things, as being of a more guiding nature, to say it carefully. There is no doubt that for Norway it is important to look for openings, that it is not immediately given that we can see them now, but that we know what to do. I see with interest that the Senterpartiet and SV now go hard on the alliance building with rich countries in the agricultural sector that we have been running with in the past. I just want to remind you that six months ago I was subjected to a massive attack from the Center Party that I did not take good enough care of this traditional alliance. Here it's a 180 degree turn. I would say that the criticism was then wrong. But we must not entirely give up that it is also possible to work with these countries. I do, and we also work with important developing countries to see where the opening is. But then I would like to remind you of one fundamental thing, that the whole round is going to be a development round, one of the points being that the developing countries have to take greater burdens than the developing countries. When developing countries say they want benefits, it is not said that Norway can immediately join the same team. But we're going to do the best we can, just to maneuver in this very difficult terrain.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-05.ana.ud2486e923	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-05.ana.ud2486e926	In a debate here in the Chamber when I was Minister for Foreign Affairs, the then parliamentary leader in the Right said the following: ‘What he is’ – the Minister for Foreign Affairs – ‘I’m not sure about this’. It is likely to fall with a lot of empty barrels’. Carbon taxes are a correction of market forces. Without such a tax, market forces alone will determine the amount of emissions. A large majority of the Foreign Affairs Committee have agreed to investigate such a tax, i.e. to correct market forces. Does the Minister for Foreign Affairs think that we have been wrong then, that we should not have any sort of correction or management of market forces at all, or does he think it is good that there is now some content in these empty barrels that he talked about?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-05.ana.ud2486e936	It would be okay if we stick to those barrels in which it is possible to have some content, one of them is the question of carbon tax, but that's probably also where that's possible. The debate I was talking about, which I remember very well, was not least about the Tobin tax, which I want to maintain probably is a nostalgic look a few decades ago. I have had my current job in approx. two and a half years. I still have the pleasure of hearing the kind of ideas mentioned in some forum I have been and talked in. I guess that's the question of the carbon tax that's up in that case. But I still hear that the Tobin tax creates a certain kind of interest in this hall, and that's certainly all right. But as I said, I still have to hear it mentioned elsewhere than here.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-05.ana.ud2486e943	I think the Foreign Minister made a very good contribution. He scored taxes and schools, and he talked about business frameworks – important things. If we don't have enough of it with us in the treatment, everyone gets to take it inwards. When we look at the position, as the representative Jagland also pointed out, the government parties, including the Right, have agreed to explore the possibilities for new international sources of income. Carbon taxes have been mentioned. Does the Right-Chairman and the Minister for Foreign Affairs feel that this is to facilitate and provide good framework conditions for business, and that the Right-Chair concepts, such as tax and school, are well protected by this positioning?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-05.ana.ud2486e951	Yes, I feel quite clearly that our positions are well taken care of. My disappointment is that this central issue has not been dealt with in the position. I would like to remind you that the main point of what I said is that we at home, nationally, have to make some decisions to enable Norway to deal with the open, international competition. So there's no alternative to trying to get to the dream of a different country. We have to take some tough and necessary thanks here at home. That's what's left. It won't have anything to say if you like. makes an investigation into the carbon tax. It'll be a completely different regime. But that's exactly what we have to do at home to be the best in some areas, which is the central part of my message.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-05.ana.ud2486e956	The Foreign Minister wondered why we had not responded better to this with the telecommunications services. In between, we know what has happened within Bravida. The former director who goes out of pay, option and pension together in the million class. What did he do? He's been paid for the pursuit. He's gotten rid of a couple of thousand Norwegian jobs. Obviously, people are critical of it. When we're in the situation that what we export most of, is actually working, people react to it. My question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs is what visions he has of how we as a country should adapt. What is it that he burns for in relation to how we are to adapt to globalisation? We have a World Commission for Globalization that has pointed out some areas that are very important. I'll frame some of them: it's a democratic and effective state. It is such as sustainable development and productive and fair markets. I could have ramed up even more areas. But what is it that the Foreign Minister is burning for, so that we can achieve what is the most important of all, simply to smooth out the distinction between poor and rich?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-05.ana.ud2486e963	I don't think SV can easily get away from the debate on what they did to the telecommunications services in the 1990s. It's not just useful to say that people react to a couple of unpleasant outcomes of globalisation. My question is: Does SV really think that in 2004 it would be possible to try to stand by the positions they tried to promote in Norway in 1991, 1992 and 1993? That's the question. The point is that at that time you tried to pretend that you could close your eyes to the technological development that came. One of the most important things to do in tackling globalisation is to have the will to change and understand when changes need to be made. At that point, I have to say that SV probably doesn't understand anything at all, but is more interested in getting the voices of the frustrated victims of globalisation. They're clearly there. But having leadership in a country is more than trying to cashe in. Leadership is just trying to make changes, so that the country remains safe and sound for many, many years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-05.ana.ud2486e970	A new research report from the University of Oslo is being discussed in the evening post on 12 February. One of the conclusions is that there is no example of increased commodity exports helping farmers in developing countries out of poverty. Researchers have looked at 23 developing countries in Asia, Africa and South America from 1980 to 2000. ‘Today’s industrialized countries grew strongly by measures that are now condemned by the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund,’ these researchers write. Another conclusion is that in order for developing countries to succeed, they must be allowed to secure their own market against the world market's john prices. They must be allowed to protect and support their own processing industries, which countries have done before, because the benefits lie in processing. It gives jobs. It provides competence and well-being. Vietnam and Bolivia are cited as examples of countries that have achieved this. The question is: will the government in the WTO negotiations help developing countries to do the same as Bolivia, Vietnam and Norway, and will it succeed in making poor peasants less poor?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-05.ana.ud2486e977	One of the main points of the WTO negotiations is that developing countries need less than developed countries, what is called ‘special and differential treatment’. This is a position that Norway agrees with, and that we will work to the best of our ability to implement. You just have to be careful that such things do not end up in pure protectionism, which will cause problems for many countries. I would then like to remind you that there are heavy and important developing countries that now of all want to have market access. It is important not only to ensure market access in the Western world, but we should remember that in the South-South trade there is also a significant and interesting opportunity for countries to rise out of poverty. But, as I said, it is important to remember that developing countries should be treated better than in countries. And that's why some of what the Center Party writes, among other things. whether alliance construction, may be in the area of vision.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-05.ana.ud2486e982	The Minister of Foreign Affairs said that he had not discovered any interest in this Tobin tax. 223 Members of the European Parliament voted in favour of it. Belgium shall vote on this proposal during June. 864 parliamentarians all over the world have signed a coup d'état for this tax. The representative Sørfonn of the Christian People's Party here in the Chamber has addressed it today. This is not anti-market, but it is an attempt to intercept something that has become too much of, and thus correct the market forces, not abolish them. Otherwise, I would like to say in terms of not protecting ourselves: that this is not the method in the age of globalisation, I fully agree with that. But when we get the opportunity, we do it often. For example, the government has gone to the brink to protect us from people from our nearby neighborhood coming here and getting work. One of the reasons I think the United States is still going to win in the world economy is because they have an openness to other people and thus suck innovative people from all over the world. In America, you can become an American pretty fast. In Europe, you can't become a Frenchman, a Norwegian, a Swedishman or anything, it's something you are, but you can never be. That's why we shut people out, and we can't win in competition with the rest of the world.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-05.ana.ud2486e989	At this last point, Thorbjørn Jagland clearly has a point, about how the international world works. The problem he has, of course, is that the Workers' Party was not particularly heavy on this matter, to say it mildly, I actually mean to remember that they were a little ahead of time. So he actually has a job to do in the group too – and that doesn't have to be the only question we've heard about the EU before today. But I agree so far with what he said, and I also believe that in the West we in many ways use rhetoric to the Third World labour force, which clearly appears to be not credible in the Third World. This is one of the most important sources of capital transfer to the Third World, and quite underestimated, but we are able to use arguments not to take in labour, which sounds ideal for us, but which are not perceived as otherwise. When it comes to the Tobin tax, I record the numbers that Thorbjørn Jagland gave me, and it makes it even more remarkable that there won't be any more of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-05.ana.ud2486e996	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-05.ana.ud2486e999	At the risk of being referred to as nostalgic by the Minister for Foreign Affairs, I will start by going back a hundred years in time. Then fought workers in Norway for a non-poverty society and class distinctions. And we'll remember that it was also a struggle from subjection to equivalency, from alms to justice. And laboriously, step by step, the Norwegian welfare society and welfare state were built up. The great masses worked away from oppression and poverty, and not least from the care services, they demanded fair wages and fair taxes. There was a commitment to school, health, participation, democracy and the rule of law. We got increased purchasing power and increased growth. At the turn of the century, global justice needs to be focused on: a fundamental redistribution of resources, values and not least of power in global institutions, and the design of rules for world trade, so that countries in the south can have their fair place in the international economy. But it also means systems of international taxation to secure revenues, both for the United Nations and other international institutions, and to build global common resources. The representative Lilletun did not like me to mention that the position of the Foreign Affairs Committee is a significantly better basis for further work on global distribution than the announcement of the Bondevik government – with all due respect for the rest – and that the Workers' Party and the SV have been left standing alone on essential instruments for redistribution between the poor and the rich in the world. However, the Communication states that the Government will not take any initiative on, for example: The Tobin tax, and that's probably the problem of the Christian People's Party. I guess the Christian People's Party really has a different starting point in this case. Globalisation means that borders are becoming less and less important for economic trade in the world, and that is something we need to take inwards. At that time, both regional and global governance tools are becoming important. Both economic and technical globalisation has developed seemingly uncontrolled. We cannot stop either technological or economic development. But what we need is the will and ability to also political globalisation. Globalisation also means that what happens in one place in the world is of importance to individuals, businesses and society elsewhere in the world. The World Bank has, and now I keep to the message, estimated that it takes less than three years for the world economy to produce the same amount of goods and services as it did in the 19th century. And of course, we have completely different products. In addition, production is becoming more and more multinational. This, in addition to the knowledge society, makes new demands both for enterprises, for framework conditions for enterprises and for the organisation of enterprises. It affects business both in Norway and in other parts of the world. Then we have to remember that knowledge is also divided differently. We see that knowledge has become a purely competitive factor for business start-up and production. For developing countries, it means that developing robust jobs is essential in addition to market shares in international trade. Transfer of knowledge and commitment to education will also be a prerequisite for growth and development in poor countries. And we have had important debates on aid policy in this Chamber for many years on the transfer of knowledge from the north to the south. The size of the population has dealt with absolutely necessary reforms in the United Nations system by means of various cross-sections. A few years ago, UN development aid coordinators were established in each beneficiary country, often under the auspices of UNDP, the United Nations Development Programme. I note that the Committee also calls for the financial institutions to be linked to cooperation. I think that's an interesting thought, because this may be necessary to achieve the ambition of halving poverty by 2015. Finally, let's remember that poverty is actually feminized. Two thirds of the world's poor are now women. This means that we need measures to help women of developing countries not only to receive development aid but to feed themselves by setting up small businesses in industry, crafts and agriculture. There are very many of the solutions for developing countries to get out of poverty.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-05.ana.ud2486e1028	At the end of the 1960s, two Swedish authors and filmmakers visited the Indian city of Saijani. There they became acquainted with the castless farm worker Bhagant. Thirty years later, they're moving back. The city has completely changed. Children go to school, the inhabitants have shoes on their feet, and the city has a sewer system and a renovation. But the greatest change has occurred in the thoughts and dreams. 30 years ago Bhagant didn't know that the country he lived in was India. Now he's following the world news on TV. Through TV and newspapers, the population acquires ideas and impressions from the other side of the globe, which expands the idea of what is possible. This has made deep sense in the global welfare indicators. According to UNDP, poverty in the world has decreased more in the last 50 years than in the 500 years before. In 30 years, average income in developing countries has doubled. Only in the 1990s, the number of extremely poor people in the world has dropped by 100 million. Infant mortality is falling. The proportion of illiterates is falling, and life expectancy in developing countries has increased from 46 to 65 years in the last forty years. Never before have so many people come out of poverty and politically closed regimes. Dictatorships fall because people show resistance, and because the information can no longer be controlled by the rulers. Market economy and growth promote democratic development and reduce the number of extremely poor. I'm proud to be able to call myself a capitalist. Globalization is driving the world forward. Just think about this: In 1943 the chairman of IBM said that he thought there was a world market for a maximum of five computers. Actually, this globalisation debate is about a positive or a negative view of development and the future. The distinction goes between those who think everything was better before, when politicians had even greater control, and those of us who think that less political power and more individual power are good. In Norwegian policy, this is the distinction between the left-hand side and the right-hand side, between the development optimists and the development specialists. Me and the Right believe that an open and borderless world is positive. A world of bars and regulations is negative. But some would like to return to the time when politics could fully determine developments. Then those who were put in power, whether they were trade unions, Bhagant's lands or politicians, could take control of the lives of the individuals. Then the policy was run from above. I'm glad that time is definitely over. I'm glad that globalisation gives individuals the power to control their lives from below. But when e.g. The SV and the Workers' Party do not understand that this is exactly what is going on, how can they invoke the competence and knowledge to provide political answers to the challenges facing us from globalisation? For the Right, trade is an extremely important instrument in the fight for freedom and against poverty. When UNDP calls trade barriers for development barriers, it obliges us. Developing countries lose several hundred billion dollars every year because they are not allowed to sell the goods they can sell, namely agricultural products and textiles, to us in the rich part of the world. They lose ten times as much on the barriers as they serve and get development assistance. That's why it's so disappointing, but by no means surprising, that the central party in the setting continues a policy of protectionism. They're in favour of a development that goes in the opposite direction to what the Government wants. The party claims that they speak on behalf of the poor countries, but they speak only on behalf of the special interests of the rich countries. They hold fast to the old enemy image of the World Trade Organisation, but now it is the poor countries of the WTO who are pushing for trade liberalisation. I would like to invite all those who believe that isolation is better than free trade, to visit Albania and get acquainted with our situation; we are now entering the WTO, said Albanian President when Albania became 138th member of the WTO. This opinion should also make an impression on the left-hand side. But unfortunately it doesn't. According to the comments of the SV and the Central Party, the requirements for cuts in western agricultural subsidies and the opening of western markets for goods from poor countries have never been promoted. But they have been promoted, loud and clear. But these parties have been too concerned about hiding behind solidarity paroles, about being the most benevolent over the aid budget and effectively building sky-high customs walls that keep poor countries away. A diplomat from Gabon, a country that dares to be known, was prevented by demonstrators from attending the WTO summit in Seattle in 1999 and stated: the demonstrators understand nothing, and they are as far away from our problems as one can expect from the white middle class from Washington. I think it speaks a very clear language. The language and the statements that Kofi Annan has made, that the only people who are losing on globalisation are those who are not part of it, is a line I hope Norway too will follow up.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-05.ana.ud2486e1061	We live in a troubled world where the struggle for the planet's natural resources is increasing. This is a major cause of war and conflict in many parts of the world today. Where there are petroleum resources, minerals, timbers and water resources around the globe, war and conflict tend to be ugly. In addition, direct environmental damage is enormous in these areas. The scarcity of earth's resources is increasing, and the disparity between those who get to participate in the creation of value and those who are outside is increasing, strongly increasing. This creates a sense of hopelessness and frustration for millions on this globe. This is like a time-adjusted bomb. Sooner or later it will go off, if nothing is done. We, who belong to one of the richest countries in the world, have an important responsibility to counter global developments in which the strongest is right and where all instruments are allowed to secure the prosperity of the richest. This is not just about making a settlement with Western countries' belief in our unspeakable right to consume most of the planet's resources and make the poorest pay the bill. It is also a matter of solidarity with those countries that are not allowed to participate in developments in all contexts where this is possible. We can do this in negotiating situations, in our oil wealth management and also when natural resources are collected at an ever-increasing commodity price. We need to contribute to this, too, in order to address the security challenges we face, not just to ensure our security here in the north, but to ensure people's security anywhere else on the globe. The United States is currently the leading exponent of a development in which military use of power to achieve political goals is increasing. The Iraq war is an example of this, where the United States alone chose to launch an attack war based on false arguments about alleged weapons of mass destruction, in order to achieve other goals. Such a development, in which the UN Charter of Power is not respected, is suitable for strong concern. It will lead to new armaments for military purposes, as we already see clear signs, and this will result in the work that has been going on for many decades on disarmament and non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction being put under heavy pressure. Norway needs to invest resources in this work. Globalisation demands greater national and international care and democratic governance, so that we can all take part in the positive aspects of globalisation. It is clear that the international institutions that can take a holistic view of the challenges, such as the United Nations, are strengthened and given the means to carry out such a role with democratic legitimacy. That will does not exist today, but it must be created. The proposals for reform of the United Nations system on restricted veto rights and an economic and social security council are the right steps in such a direction. Work within the UN on reform and increased democratisation offers hope for improvement. Norway must play a role in such work. There is a major problem that today more and more decision-making power is being shifted out of more and more national states and into enclosed governance. The work of increasing the democratisation of national decision-making authorities is a prerequisite for many countries to take political control of their own future. The road to becoming so-called failed states, or failed states, is too many countries quite short. These are the countries that fail to meet their national commitments. Such countries provide greater ground for major conflicts or for increased international terrorism. There is a great need to develop a global strategy for such countries, subject to the UN. I am pleased that a joint committee believes that Norway should take such an initiative.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-05.ana.ud2486e1082	As I mentioned in a reply earlier, the starting point is on regulation or not regulation, and on a lot of governance or little control, a kind of derailment of most debates, especially a debate on globalisation. Very few will think that there is no need for regulation at the global level; that is precisely regulation that is needed. It is not just about regulation, but about who it is that should be regulated. And then there is a normal ideological political debate about what kind of regulation to have. For example, the Progress Party emphasises that a non-regulation should be applied. It is clear that one should have regulations. Among other things, one of the major challenges facing world migration is people moving around. If one hangs on to the fact that all these homogeneous states – of which there are ten, to some extent – will survive as homogeneous states, then a completely lost war will be fought because people are moving on. We are happy that we get mixed states, where one can take advantage of the creativity – as the leader of the Foreign Affairs Committee was in it – by the fact that different people with different backgrounds move together. It leads to growth, but it also leads to new confrontations, to new conflicts. It's one example that we have to have some kind of international regulation, or else we're going to have a lot of fun. Secondly, we have to recognize that there is an area where it is too late to fight any of the wars. This is one of them. There we need regulation at the global level, but we also need to recognise that the change has taken place at national level, and that this time with the homogeneous states – the ten countries that we claimed – is over, including for us. We are in a multicultural phase, a multicultural phase – one can call it what it wants, but we are in a new phase, which is a result of globalisation. We also need to address this debate to a greater extent. Another example is that we need regulation, but that there may be different political positions to decide what kind of regulation we should have is the privatisation of countries that are, so to speak, under international economic administration. In general, privatisation of water, electricity, or anything else, will lead to growth and growth in a country. Some think privatisation is a safe way to progress. But there's a question of one in the political landscape. The Labour Party believes that it is not certain that privatisation itself is something that leads to progress. There may be a need for strong national governance, even public governance, across a number of such areas. What we have to ensure is that in those countries, there is a governance that is not corrupt, but that there is real competition, that there is real transparency, and that this is not part of a way for the power to provide. It must be effective, it must be transparent, it must be a good set of controls, but it is not necessarily so that there should be private solutions everywhere. There may be some places, some places might not. There is one view that the debate on globalisation has taken some strange sides, because some of these multilateral institutions are calling for privatisation in areas where privatisation is by no means a solution. They promote an ideological vision. Then one must also stand up and say that this is not a question of a natural way into a better society, but it is an ideological stand from those who decide in the multilateral organizations, whether it be the IMF or who it is. Governments, parliamentarians and others must also stand up and believe the opposite when one thinks it is necessary. There is no denying that such a development is something that leads to progress. One must also recognise that there are ideological differences with regard to the type of regulation to be made. In other words, it's not a matter of regulation or not regulation, it's a matter of what kind of regulation you should have. And no one wants a completely free world order where there are no regulations. What we have in common, some of us, on the other hand, is that we want strong global and regional organisations that can handle these regulations, and that we can fight these ideological discussions about what kind of regulations we're going to have within those bodies, whether it's regional in Europe or globally through the UN or others. It's a minimum of recognition that one uses the arenas that are available for the political change of words, and that one doesn't see them as God-given bodies that have a sense of wisdom in themselves. We are the ones who are going to fill them with the wisdom that must be there, from our political standpoint. There, the Government will start using the creativity of the government party in the setting, on different regulations and tax arrangements to finance the UN. There's no rejection, according to Lilletun, only creativity remains. And the government is now going to fill these institutions with creativity and new schemes.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-05.ana.ud2486e1095	Resistance to globalisation has used environmental considerations as an argument against globalisation. That's not a good argument. On the contrary: the consideration of the world's environment is a good argument for globalisation. I'll get back to that a little bit. It was also argued that globalisation leads industry to move to countries with poorer environmental requirements in order to reduce costs and thus push countries such as Norway to reduce environmental requirements in order to adapt to international competition. The problem with this reasoning is simply that it doesn't match reality. There has been no mass flow from western countries to countries with poorer environmental requirements. Worldwide, economic growth and growth are being followed by increased awareness of the environment and more stringent environmental requirements. Poor countries simply cannot afford to invest in environmental measures, that is the problem. As they become richer, as a result of free trade, market economy and integration into the world economy, they are also able to solve their environmental problems. Free trade and technology are the drivers of globalisation. At the same time, increased free trade contributes to the faster dissemination of new technologies. This is good for the environment, because new technologies are more environmentally friendly. Energy and the environment are closely linked. Here it's important to have an international perspective. Energy consumption with fossil energy sources causes greenhouse gas emissions and the greenhouse effect is a global problem. In the right, we believe that, after all, it must be better to produce electricity from gas power plants in Norway than first to use energy to export gas, then to import electricity from power plants in other countries, where it is produced either with the same gas or with much more environmentally harmful energy sources. It is the total greenhouse gas emissions in the world that affect our environment, not whether the power plants are in Norway, in Germany or, for that matter, in Gothenburg. The Kyoto Agreement opens up international greenhouse gas allowance trading. That's right. That's right. International emissions trading results in the imposition of measures with the greatest impact. International allowance trading is an example of market-based solutions and free cross-border trade producing the most effective results for the environment. I am proud and pleased that we have an Environment Minister who is sincerely involved in the world's environmental state and who has developed a solid international recognition. It's been a long time since we've had a politician of such a format in the field of environmental policy as Børge Burnde. In his honorable mission as Head of the World Commission on the Environment and Development, he is doing an important job. As you know, the World Commission will follow the work of the Rio and Johannesburg Summits and will continue the international environmental work. Our own government last reaped a national follow-up to the Rio and Johannesburg Summits – National Agenda 21, called the National Sustainable Development Action Plan. The focus here is on seven main areas: international cooperation for the sustainable development and fight against poverty, ozone layers and long-range transport of air pollutionbiological diversity and cultural memoriesresources for health and the environment, hazardous chemicals, sustainable economic development,sympathetic perspectives in environmental and resource management; Environment and development are closely linked. At the Johannesburg Summit, important progress was made in both of these areas, although we did not reach as far as we had visions on the Norwegian side. But in Johannesburg, we had confirmed the vision of a binding partnership between the south and the north. The Johannesburg Summit was therefore a step in the right direction to solve the world’s environmental and poverty problems. This shows that international cooperation is beneficial, but we need patience. It also shows that we are moving further by opening up to the rest of the world through integration and international global cooperation. We can conclude that the combination of free trade, market economy and close international cooperation also produces results in terms of the environment and development, in fact, especially here.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-05.ana.ud2486e1144	Global warming is the most serious challenge facing the world today. July last year was the warmest ever in Norway. At the same time, forest fires in southern Europe and in Italy, priority was required between water to cool power plants and water for households. The unusual heat wave that swept across Europe, which killed 20,000 people, was so extreme that such an event occurs only once every 46 000 years, and was the first taste of how the future can be shaped by global warming in a world. This was the conclusion of a number of Swiss researchers in an article recently published in the journal Nature. Climate change kills, not only in poor countries like Bangladesh, but in fact also in our neighbourhoods. Let me remind you of the obvious link between fossil resource consumption and greenhouse gas emissions. In December 2003, the report "Towards a Better Balance". The surprising critical report was the result of the ‘Extraactive Industries Review’ — a review of the benefits and disadvantages of the World Bank’s support for oil, gas and mining. The report is particularly relevant for Norway, due to Norwegian investment in the oil sector, for example in Angola, Iran and other countries in Central Asia. At the same time, Norway was one of the initiators of the Johannesburg World Summit to promote increased investment in renewable energy. This report therefore concludes as follows: 1st@item: inlistbox Increased investment has not necessarily helped the poor; in fact, the environment and the poor have often been further threatened by expansion in the oil or mineral extraction industry of a country.2. The World Bank does not appear to be designed to effectively promote poverty reduction through the sustainable development of extractive industries in the countries it supports.3. And, perhaps what is most important: the World Bank should phase out its support for coal and oil projects by 2008 and should use its limited resources to invest in the development of renewable energy, emission reduction projects, clean energy and renewable energy. Although it was the World Bank itself that in its time took the initiative of the «Extractive Industries Review», the recommendations of the panel are not binding and will soon be dealt with on the board of the bank. The signals from there have so far not been positive. It will therefore be essential for the various countries behind the World Bank to reach these conclusions and ensure that the advice given is effectively processed and implemented. Norway's active participation is also important here. In addition, Norway can take the consequences of this report on its own by clarifying Norway’s own project funding policy, through Norwegian institutions such as GIEK, Norwegian companies and Norway’s participation and voting in international or multilateral funding institutions. The rapporteur pointed out in his speech the importance of creating jobs, which in turn can create well-being. In my opinion, this is a good approach. In fact, it is not the case that business should only finance well-being – business should also produce well-being. This means that the creation of jobs does not matter, nor in the least developed countries. There is no point in poor countries going the same way to prosperity as we have done, in the sense that they should have to go the same polluting road as us, in relation to energy. In fact, due to large natural resources of hydropower, Norway has a highly renewable electricity production, but at the same time this has meant a massive reduction of Norwegian fossils, which has had to give way to the country’s and industry’s power needs. In my view, Norway should take the lead in ensuring that poor countries have the opportunity to invest in new renewable energy. The first major test of the ability and willingness to follow up the initiative of the panel I mentioned, with concrete measures and political reform, will be shown at the Bonn renewable conference at the beginning of June, where the Norwegian government will also be represented. That's how we can go through, among other things. technology transfer contributes to the development of these countries in addition to the fact that this could make a significant contribution to slowing down global warming that threatens us all, both in rich and poor countries. In fact, this is one of the areas in which Norway is able to take global responsibility for global development and take responsibility for ensuring that poor countries have access to new renewable energy. We have to take that responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-05.ana.ud2486e1178	We live in an age of growing global proximity. National boundaries are going to mean less — the free choice of individuals is going to mean much more. Globalisation therefore provides a ‘world of opportunities’, as the Government has called it. The opposition to globalisation often claims that it leads to inequalities in the world economy – it is wrong. There is a report on this, published in 2000, ‘Globalisation and inequality’. I will not go too far, but take one quote, where it says that there has been ‘a clear reduction in international income inequality between the 1960s and 1997’. Globalisation has thus made the world a better place to be both economically and democratically. Of course, there's a lot left, but we're on the right track. That may also be the reason why poor countries are so concerned that globalisation should continue. Several have been involved in the studies that have been carried out, and they show that there is a significant boost to globalisation in the poorest countries. Then you can wonder who the opponents are. Well, there are people from the richest part of the world, different groupings, but very often parties on the left side of the political landscape. Traditionally, socialists have been attached to social governance from top to bottom through state planning and management systems. Globalisation is driven by completely different forces, which are growing largely from the bottom to the width. This results in a collision between traditional socialist governance and the peculiar nature of globalisation. This is best seen when the debate is about free trade and the market economy. Today the setting confirms that the dividing lines also in this house go along the same lines – the opponents represented by the Centre Party and SV. It is no wonder that many in the poor countries see this as a desire from the rich world to go up the ladder and prevent others from attaining the same wealth as they do – thus excluding them from a ‘world of opportunity’. Especially provocative must it be for the people of poor countries who have lived in history. They probably remember that in the 1950s and 1960s Marx was the leading star on the left, and where the same arguments were used, but that only led these peoples into poverty and dictatorship. But globalisation is not problem-free, as the Foreign Minister was also involved in his intervention. It is a significant challenge for a nation such as Norway. Competition is getting tougher, migration requirements are increasing, and more efficient use of resources is becoming urgent. Norway is a small country, has an open economy and is particularly dependent on being competitive with its products. That is why globalisation also affects our everyday lives both in the short and long term. We must take advantage of the opportunities offered by globalisation, but also equip ourselves for the challenges it brings. It is necessary to maintain our well-being while also helping people in other countries to increase their standard of living. Being internationally competitive is demanding for a small country with scattered population and large distances to the market. The comfort is that in a globalized world it is not to be the largest, but the fastest. In this way, I have enough more faith in the conservative idea that we are changing to preserve than the system conservatism of the left-hand side. Experience suggests that countries cannot protect themselves for economic progress – for a short time: yes, in a longer perspective: no. The ability to change, to take challenges on the kick, to lie ahead while at the same time having the necessary predictability and long-termity of policy is therefore becoming important for a country such as Norway in an increasingly globalised world. In addition, globalisation also calls for involvement in areas where individual countries cannot solve this alone, but where it must be resolved jointly. It is important that globalisation in this context also calls for a nation such as Norway. There are opportunities for globalisation, but also obligations. I am pleased to note that there is a great deal of excitement about the message that has been presented. It is good, both in its analyses and in its approach. It is perhaps the best way to identify the challenges this poses for Norway and the solutions that must lie here for us. The message is called "A World of Opportunities". Maybe it could also be that when the icy wind blows, as a Chinese saying, builds some lescue, others build windmills. This government is planning to build windmills.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-05.ana.ud2486e1197	Our biggest political challenge today is all those who lack food. Four years ago, I was allowed to visit Malawi with the prime minister. It was incredibly strong contrasts with our everyday lives. Malawi showed up in Norwegian news again last month. Malawi is a tiny little country in South Africa with 10 million inhabitants. They are among the ten poorest in the world. It's 39 years old, and it's going down. 22 pst. of the children die before they reach the age of 4 and 16 pst. of all 14-49-year-olds with HIV infection. 29 of 193 in Parliament died or had to stop because of AIDS in that period. We met a female doctor who was the mother of one, but she was responsible for 19 to which she was an aunt. Their parents were dead. There were two great points of light – they had enough food, and there was no war there – in addition to the fact that they looked so pleased. That was 85 pst. who lived by agriculture, it was hacking agriculture, and it was very primitive. They had enough water, but they couldn't irrigation. For some years the authorities had had a program for free fertilizers and seeds for the farmers. The news now was that one third of the inhabitants of Malawi are starving. 3 million could die of hunger, it said in our newspapers. What they didn't tell me was that the World Bank and the IMF had stopped the free seed and fertilizer aid that made them have enough food when we were there. Inflation was too high, the budget had to be cut, so are the rules to be followed. At the same time, there was a global overproduction of what they could sell, namely tobacco, which had made the price of it fall straight down. This is as wrong as it suits, for exactly them. Food shortages make the infection stronger and the diseases become more dangerous. Several adults are going to die earlier from their children. Better nutrition is needed in such a country. But then tough demands are made in the name of globalisation. Earlier today, I have mentioned a new report from the University of Oslo, which says that there are no examples of commodity exports helping farmers out of poverty – studies in 23 countries in three parts of the world, from 1980 to 2000 – a report that also says that we, in countries, have become rich because we have used protective umbrellas, which the IMF prohibits those who are developing today. In Malawi we were told that if they wanted a processing industry there, they would have to be exempt for many, many years. They did not initially generate tax income from that industry. The Central Party wants the WTO, the World Bank and the IMF to use their power in a different way, and that they should aim what I say must be the greatest political challenge, better nutrition and better for the poorest in the world. The WTO has also, at its meeting in Marrakech some years ago, decided that we should have impact assessments to find out how our policy works for the poorest. I hope that Norway will continue to support such a system, and that we will reflect on what is the reason why we want protection for Norwegian fisheries today by ensuring that the fishing resources are under our control, why we have made demands in relation to the oil business, that there are Norwegian businesses to be given priority, why we have made demands in relation to the power-intensive industry, i.e. who will benefit from reasonable electricity prices in Norway. The result of that policy is the industrial locomotives we have today. That is the well-being that we can all share today. I will end by quoting Aslak Bonde in the evening post from 2 April 1996: "In a hundred years' time, historians may not want to present the fall of the Berlin Wall as the greatest event in the 1980s. Perhaps they will focus on Ronald Reagan and the US initiative in the GATT negotiations to get full free trade in food. Was it the beginning of a process in which humans – in naive belief in progress and science – ruin their own livelihood?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-05.ana.ud2486e1219	Globalization is about people getting closer together and becoming more dependent on each other, across borders and continents. This gives us enormous opportunities, but at the same time increasing challenges. Globalisation contributes to greater freedom, while calling for increased international responsibility. This leads us to experience something completely new: that the sufferings of others and the conflicts of others are getting closer to us, and thus concerns us to a greater extent than if Norway were to try to stand outside the rest of the world and globalisation. Norway alone cannot save the world from its challenges, but we can contribute economically, politically, diplomatically and militarily. In my view, for a resource-rich country like Norway, it is an obligation to contribute to stability and peace in other parts of the world. Security is created in cooperation with others. Contributing to the spread of democracy, human rights and the market economy is security building at its best. Today, therefore, security policy must be seen in a global perspective. We can no longer operate with national or regional perspectives in terms of security policy. The fight against terrorism has seriously made the need for a global perspective on our common security challenges visible. No one knows where the terror strikes next time. That it's going to hit again, is a prediction most unfortunately agree. Like all other countries, Norway is also exposed to this. I would therefore like to stress in today's debate that the work on peace and international terrorism must have an overall approach. One-sidedness in the use of instruments against international terrorism will in no way contribute to addressing the challenges of terrorism. The fight against terrorism must not in any way lead to a struggle between civilisations. In any case, people with another religion must not be perceived as a potential security risk, while in our own society we must not take measures that could compromise our own fundamental freedoms. In this context, international responsibility should appear as an aggregate key concept. There may not be any contradiction between assistance and military operations. The UN Secretary-General has stated that a military presence in Iraq is necessary to ensure peace, stability and, above all, security for the civilian population. The active involvement of military personnel in security construction, where cooperation with civil aid organisations, local authorities and other international organisations is prominent, also means something fundamentally new. This means that traditional security policies have a more normative character, where building security is a broad process covering all areas of society. That's why it's unfortunate, as the SV and the Central Party do, to make such a sharp distinction between humanitarian and military missions. In this perspective, there is also no necessary contrast between NATO and the UN, although both the SV and the Central Party are trying to highlight this to the best of their ability. In my opinion, SV has an idealized notion of what the UN is, and sees, among other things. not that the safety of other countries is also important for Norway. Norwegian security does not start at Svinesund, as the left-hand side and the centre part seem to believe. Geographical distance will, in the time of globalisation, be relatively less and less. But the less geographical distance, the greater the need for international responsibility. Participation in military operations is therefore a way of demonstrating international responsibility, while serving to increase security for more. In this perspective, we can also say that there is a close link between security and freedom for more people. We have to put off the left-hand side's be-seg-self-notices in relation to creating peace and stability throughout the world, i.e. refrain from believing that solidarity only applies to one's own and one's own. When globalisation means that we people get closer together and become more dependent on each other, it means that we as the North must actively participate in the fight against war and terror together with the rest of the world.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-05.ana.ud2486e1234	Globalisation and free trade are some of the most positive things that have happened to world society in the last 100 years, both for poor and rich parts of the world. Globalisation, of course, is a major challenge in many areas, but the experience we have gained from integrating technology, culture, labour, capital, knowledge and competences is clear: globalisation offers great opportunities for nations, businesses and individuals. Our job is to make sure that these possibilities are exploited as best as possible. Free trade and globalisation have brought many hundreds of millions of people out of need and poverty. Globalization, as some claim, has not benefited only the rich. On the contrary, the poorest parts of the world's population have had a stronger growth in income than the richest. Between 1965 and 1998, income increased to the poorest 20 pst. of the world's population by 100 pst, while the 20 pst. The richest got their income increased by 75 pst. Between 1960 and 1998, average life expectancy in developing countries increased from 46 years to 68 years. Globalisation and free trade have been important contributions to this. In many ways, I feel that the positive effects that globalisation has had on combating poverty are the ultimate proof that liberalisation, free trade and the market economy – called capitalism in general – have won a final and sovereign victory over alternative ways of organising the economy and society. That's why it's almost fascinating when wealthy white youth in the industrialised part of the world gather to fight against globalisation. Many of these have seen that failed experiments with communism, market regulation, plan economy and socialism have led to poverty, dictatorship and human suffering. However, the ability to learn is surprisingly small in some environments. In poor countries, on the other hand, the attitude is the opposite. It is quite illustrative to see that the emergence of globalisation is considerably greater among people in the Third World than in the industrialized world. In Africa, 75 pst. In a survey conducted by Pew Research Center, they asked that multinational companies have a positive impact on their countries, and that is 20 percentage points more than in the West. It's 72 pst. Africans believe that institutions such as the WTO are charitable mean only 28 pst. by the Africans that the anti-globalisation movement brings something good with it. Global taxation appears to be the main global redistribution measures on the left. Also in the global perspective, increased taxes appear to be target No. 1 for a number of lots. The basis of the International Attac movement, supported by many politicians, seems to be based alone on the introduction of so-called currency tax, also referred to as Tobin tax. On the one hand, the motive is to drive global cohesion and finance the UN, and on the other hand, to counter currency speculation and to curb globalisation and free trade. Taxes on currency will obviously counteract the purchase and sale of goods and services and will counteract foreign real investment, business start-ups and purchases worldwide. Tax will be a barrier to economic growth also in the poor part of the world. The result is that the poorest countries become even poorer and even less able to generate their own economic growth. This will strengthen the charity profile that has shaped development policy up to now. Monetary taxation has been seen as a measure that will reverse developments in many poor countries, and it is probably reflected in the attitude of these countries towards the so-called resistance to globalisation. A foreign exchange tax will also affect the functioning of the capital market. This is a risky experiment also for the open Norwegian economy. With currency tax, Norwegian currency will become even more peripheral than it is today. This would lead to significant competitive disadvantages for Norwegian companies. If, for example: a furniture manufacturer on Møre must pay 1 pst. In foreign exchange taxes — which have been used as an example by Tobin — to sell furniture to the United States or the EU — there is little news for people in More, to say the least. There is a high risk that a currency tax will eliminate thousands of Norwegian jobs. It could also be thought that currency tax was a high-powered thought experiment of young people in Attac. However, it is more interesting that the head of the Foreign Affairs Committee, Thorbjørn Jagland, writes in Dagbladet on 2 March that a so-called Tobin tax would be ‘ideal’. The comments in the setting state that the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre's party consider that the Tobin tax is «well justified». It might have been interesting to hear if this is actually what the Workers' Party is for, and if you also want to welcome the negative consequences of such a tax. The only good argument I have heard so far for Tobin tax is that it is likely to bring Norway fairly quickly into the EU. I think it is positive that a majority refers to the Kyoto mechanisms and to the possibilities for emissions from international aviation and shipping to be subject to the greenhouse gas allowances system under establishment in Norway as well as in the EU and other countries. With regard to the problems of carbon emissions, I believe that we need to find a solution to this problem within the corresponding regimes. But at the same time, it has to be stressed that these are complicated processes, which are difficult to get enough excitement about. We should therefore concentrate our efforts on implementing the agreements that have already been concluded. For Norway, globalisation represents exciting challenges and fantastic opportunities both for the nation, business and individuals. In a global context, the main challenge is to provide all countries with opportunities for growth and prosperity development similar to those we have had in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-05.ana.ud2486e1269	The President sees that we can risk having problems with today's meeting settlement. There are five speakers recorded, and we're going to have an interview afterwards, so the President sees the need to propose that the speakers who are given the floor will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-05.ana.ud2486e1274	There's been a race of Right-People on the pulpit, so I felt called to take the word again, especially after Ine Marie Eriksen's speeches earlier today. A number of representatives have now become very disillusioned with these globalisation-critical movements, which apparently consist only of white middle-class young people who stand in the way of the poor countries' delegates when they go into international trade negotiations. It's a funny presentation of the real situation in the world, when we look at who is at the heart of these movements: it's the international small user organisations that represent millions of small farmers from just poor countries around the world. There have been the movements of the landless in South America and the movements of the casteless in India, which Mrs Eriksen herself spoke about, and there have been representatives of the poorest and most oppressed in the developing countries who have been very central. The notion that these people are on the outside of globalisation and therefore have to be included again has been repeated several times. If we look at e.g. India, the 200 million casteless there are prerequisites that it can be so lucrative with the IT boom in India and for a number of international companies to invest there. You have 200 million people doing society's dirty work free of charge and making sure it's profitable in other sectors. When the representative Eriksen goes through different indicators of growth in a world of poverty, it is true that many people have been lifted out of poverty in the last ten years. But you have to have very dark blue glasses and some tunnel vision to interpret the numbers as unilaterally as Ine Marie Eriksen does. Looking at UNDP's figures, you can see that there are more poor people in the world today than ever before, that differences are increasing dramatically, and that those countries that have managed to lift most out of poverty are precisely those countries that have not conducted a typical liberalist economic policy, but countries like India and China, which have pursued a policy based on state activity and regulation of important economic sectors. When you hear Right-wing representatives today, you'd think that today's free trade system was really free markets, where everyone – if only they had the chance to participate – was on a level playing field. Several times today, Thomas Friedman, an American commentator from The New York Times, has been mentioned. He has summed up the invisible hand of the market and how it works, in a very good way, which I want to end with: "The invisible hand to the market can never function without an invisible fist. McDonald's can't bleed without McDonnell-Douglas, manufacturer of F 15. And the invisible fist that makes the world safe for Silicon Valley technology is called the US Army, Air Force, Navy and Marine Corps." I think that's well said.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-05.ana.ud2486e1291	It is a paradox that many of the globalisation opponents who are obviously keenly committed to improving the living conditions of the least-developed countries make themselves spokespersons to eliminate or limit the only real opportunity for poor countries to overcome poverty problems. Free trade is not a zero-sum game where some win and others lose. On the contrary, open markets are important for welfare growth in all countries. This is supported, inter alia, by: by a study at Harvard University, which showed that developing countries with open trade policies in the period 1970–90 had an economic growth of 4.5 pst. This year. The countries with closed borders had, for comparison, a growth of only 1 pst. Among the countries with an open trade policy, they had growth of 2.3 pst., while growth was 0.7 pst. in countries with restrictive trade policies. This shows that an open trade policy is an important step in the right direction, for developing countries, but also for countries. I don't think it's possible to ‘cancell’ parts of globalisation, as they on the left-hand side say they want to. Business and culture, immigration and emigration, the Internet and commerce go hand in hand. What we can do is establish new and better rules for cross-border movements, but the paradox here is also that the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, which are most concerned with having such rules of play, are simultaneously countering the organizations that can establish them, such as the United Nations. The EU and the WTO. Thanks to globalisation, people and nations have greater opportunities than ever to exchange information, to communicate and to hold an open and democratic debate to face the problems and to exploit the opportunities. Only it gives cause for optimism. For Norway, the situation is basically good: we are a prosperous, democratic and modern nation with few and small internal conflicts. This means that we are in a special position to seize the opportunities open to globalisation. But unfortunately, the left-hand side doesn't seem to be able to seize these possibilities. That is at least the impression you get after the debate today. No matter how many problems and challenges you can identify, it is important to bear in mind that globalization has so far produced very many positive results that we would not have been in the first place. It has contributed to wealth development, higher living standards and much higher life expectancy in developing countries. But it has also contributed to the democratisation of many countries, and it indirectly contributes to peace and fewer conflicts, because democratic countries that integrate and become dependent on each other are also inclined to resolve conflicts peacefully.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-05.ana.ud2486e1302	We have recently had several EU debates, and there is no reason to reiterate all the arguments that the EU and other regionalisation are a necessary factor in ensuring global commitment to cooperation in the long term. However, it is particularly true that some here today have dared to focus on the fact that this type of cooperation involves block formations that work negatively in relation to international cooperation, for example. in relation to environmental problems and the relationship between poor and rich countries, all the time when representatives of this type of approach simultaneously adopt a self-reliance on issues where the real willingness to commit cooperation with a fair distribution of benefits and, in particular, disadvantages is put to the test. And when I, for example, reader: ‘Significant parts of the prosperity growth in our part of the world in the last century took place under significant regulation and political governance’ – this is stated by the representative of the Centre Party in the Committee is – it is worth remembering that this welfare increase occurred logically at the expense of the poorest countries, which we chose to regulate and steer away from our markets. I record that the relationship between free trade on the one hand and democracy and wealth growth on the other hand for people on the other is interrelationships that you try to leave that which are not there, with explanations that are probably not exactly clear. However, increasing international trade, as it now works, is not without challenges. It can sometimes also lead to increased environmental problems. There is an explicit need to reform and strengthen the UN institutions responsible for ensuring the sustainable use and management of earth's environmental and natural resources. There is a need for basic environmental standards, but at the same time I think there is reason to stress the Committee's point that different environmental measures should serve not only as hidden trade barriers but with another and politically correct, and perhaps pretty, façade. In addition, there is reason to repeat that it's not the greatest vision descendants are going to judge us by when it comes to environmental challenges, but the visions and solutions we can realize. A good starting point for the environmental policies of Norway and the international community should be that we focus on implementing the agreements that we have already agreed on and that are challenging enough in itself before we embark on new ones. It is almost too tempting and almost impossible to finally comment that the Centre Party is concerned that ‘Norway must take a position in the WTO that involves a clearer commitment to the poor countries’. This is with respect to notifying almost in line with the above-and-down attitude of some when they were formerly musing in both one and the other ways in the developing world. When the Central Party talks about solidarity and helping the poor, but in reality rejects the developing countries' own most important solution by refusing them access to our markets, it is a clear commitment, but definitely for all interests other than foreign interests. I want to end with something a diplomat from Gabon said when he was prevented by demonstrators from attending the WTO meeting in Seattle in 1999. He then said that the demonstrators understand nothing, and are as distant from our problems as one can expect from the white middle class. That statement I believe today has a certain transfer value in relation to some representatives from the Central Party in this room.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-05.ana.ud2486e1313	Economic research reveals that the main cause of economic growth is growing globalisation. Much of the well-being created is the result of specialisation and international marketing of products. Without open international markets for sales, production, technology and credit, economic growth would be lower and far more people would not be able to participate in the increasing welfare. The historical trend shows that in the last 100 years, there have been many independent national states. One would think that this would lead to more isolationism and increasing economic barriers between countries. The trend shows, however, that most countries are seeking economic, cultural and political cooperation. The formation of the EU, NAFTA and/or other cooperation alliances is evolving towards a more integrated political and economic system, where individual national targets are reconciled with common transnational objectives. Not only does technology evolve, especially in telecommunications and biotechnology, at exponential speed and as more and more people on the most remote strata in the world. Globalisation is about seeing the opportunities that exist, and not being overwhelmed by all the dangers and obstacles. There will always be dark people who want to reverse the development of increased trade and interaction between nations and peoples. Increased globalisation also provides opportunities for a common international commitment to address important social problems. Diseases such as HIV/AIDS, diarrhoea, intestinal infections, diphtheria, malaria, etc. the least developed countries in the world, those with the least resources to deal with them. Without a global economic and research fight against these diseases, these countries will have a much longer way to participate in economic development. 80 pst. of all cases of disease in the world are the result of dangerous water and poor sanitary conditions. 2.2 million people die each year because of a lack of access to clean drinking water. These countries need considerable resources. Each year it is necessary about NOK 1 250 billion to meet the need of poor countries for drinking water, purification and irrigation. 90 pst. of all sewers, or 70 pst. all industrial waste, in developing countries, is discharged without any treatment. In fact, these environmental emissions contaminate important sources of drinking water, i.e. the source of good health. It goes without saying that without international contributions and international cooperation, the opportunities for the individual poor nation state will be very limited. Norway has a specific responsibility to contribute to further globalisation. Not because Norway serves it economically right now, but because Norway’s contribution along with other industrialized countries will strengthen the life base of millions of people. Norwegian competence, from public management to technological contributions, is perhaps what will be most important to make the least developed countries self-reliant over time, so that social and economic growth can take place on their own merits. It is the only dangerous way for economic growth, but also for combating diseases and environmental problems.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-05.ana.ud2486e1328	Today's debate has clearly shown that globalisation is the best option for a small country with an open economy and with great export potential. These opportunities overshadow the difficult challenges of globalisation. Then I think especially of organized crime. Increasingly, the trend is towards a raw, organised destabilization chain operating in the world community, from the opium sacres in Afghanistan to the backs of Oslo, from the rurals of Laos to the brothels in Bangkok, from the laboratories in the Netherlands to the youth environments in the Drammen. It deals with drugs, trafficking in human beings, arms trafficking and money laundering. Small farmers deliver the raw materials. Gerilja's movements and corrupt regimes provide jobs and money for new weapons. smugglers cross-border people, weapons, and drugs. Drug barons interacting with terrorists raise money, bribe public officials and redirect money back to new crime and terrorism. The challenge is to break the spirals of these evils. This is achieved only through close international police and intelligence cooperation. Norway participates in which Norway may participate. Europol is playing an increasingly important role in Europe. We participate as far as we can, but lack of EU membership limits. Schengen cooperation has positive effects on the fight against organised crime and Nordic police cooperation is very good. But there are formidable opponents we're facing. International organised crime aims at destabilising and breaking down democratic institutions. Weak institutions and lack of democracy are best served by corruption, bribery and money laundering. In our own part of the world, the EU is the best guarantor to reduce the vulnerability of societies. In poor countries, the possibility of democracy, trade and the marketing of agricultural products is the best guarantor of the exchange and extortion of society by organised criminals. We are facing major challenges in this area, and only through international cooperation, the exchange of information and the establishment of an international legal order can we combat this threat to the globalised world. The vulnerability of society is increasing with increased globalisation, but we must never draw the wrong conclusion and reverse developments. On the contrary, we need to work even harder to find ways to combat terrorist networks and organized criminal gangs. This is going to be a tough fight, but it's a fight that the world community has to win. The approach refers to organised crime and terrorism as two different issues. Unfortunately, there is a lot of evidence to suggest that the relationship between terrorism and organised crime is greater than we have so far believed. This is a formidable challenge, which must be taken seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-05.ana.ud2486e1341	Today's debate has shown that we are, at least, quite a few of them saying that we will be able to cope with carbon taxes on maritime transport. There will be no problem for Norway or Norwegian maritime industries. Why? Well, because we have the knowledge that's going on. There's knowledge that makes it possible for us to be competitive on just that. That's why it's a shame we have Norwegian bridal and machine officers working as ticket offices in ferry companies. There is nothing wrong with it, but it is clear that with their knowledge they should have been in international maritime transport. But there's so little pay that they can't afford it. If they pay the mortgage/bank loan, they can't afford it. Because we know that the things that lead to flexibility, as it is so nice called, are going to mean that the wages in Norway are going down, and maybe the international wages are not going to come up. If we look at this with national ownership, there is no doubt that it is also important in a period of globalisation. That's the balancing where we need to get, not least for Norway, where much of the value creation is tied up to natural resources. So even in areas where business is closest to globalization, as in the merchant fleet, we see signs that they're well-flagged to an even greater degree, or at worst they're selling out. One of Norway's largest rail crews was sold for 10 billion dollars. We need to put in place a business policy for those who want to feed, not for those who want to sell and invest. Targeted industrial policies will help to increase national competitiveness. Not least in many poor countries, globalisation has led to the loss of the role and ability of the state to create macro-economic stability and social protection for the poorest. It is in such States with a vacuum of power that the Grobot of so-called failed states, which has been up here before today, is the largest, and in which fundamental national tasks of a civil, legal and military nature do not function. That is why it is so important that, in globalisation too, we support under the national, the possibility of making our own nation state, as we were allowed to and free to do. We can't compete them out until they've built up and been able to compete. So I want to round off saying that next love has been mentioned here in the debate, and solidarity was called by the leader here only in the day. I'd like to add that we can get another find word, a good, conservative find word like propriety, into the globalization processes, and we've come very far.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-05.ana.ud2486e1352	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2078]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-05.ana.ud2486e1368	A new Nordic Convention on Social Security has been negotiated between Denmark, Finland, Iceland, Sweden and Norway. The main purpose of the Convention is to regulate the social security rights of persons who live or work in one or more Nordic countries during their lives and are not covered by the EEA rules. Furthermore, the Convention shall ensure that the regulation of internal social security issues does not conflict with EU/EEA rules. This Nordic cooperation has been in progress for nearly 50 years. The Convention includes, inter alia: health care, sickness, maternity and maternity cash benefits or adoption and occupational injury and unemployment benefits. This convention is a good illustration of how close the Nordic countries are to each other and how well cooperation can work. It is also a unanimous committee which agrees to the approval of this Convention.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-05.ana.ud2486e1379	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2078]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-05.ana.ud2486e1399	Wednesday, February 23, 1944, in the evening, nearly 60 years ago, a large part of the Chechen population was arrested by Soviet soldiers and the debt of treason. Nearly 400,000 men, women and children were loaded onto cars and forced displacements, and as many as 60,000-70,000 died before they arrived. When the survivors got back more than 13 years later, they discovered that their houses, curtains and possessions were taken over by others. This day marks one of the most monstrous actions in the long and often bloody history of the Chechen people. Unfortunately, she is not alone. The Chechens now live on the fifth year of the second war in ten years. The country is in conflict with the Russians in a raw and merciless war, a war that represents Europe's worst human rights crisis today. Innocent civilians, men and women, old and young, are tortured, selected, beaten, harassed or killed and often simply disappear. Live victims who turn to the authorities to obtain information about the missing or killed, or who have complained to the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg, have been subjected to the corresponding proceedings, have been killed or have simply disappeared. In addition, human rights fighters engaged in the work are being persecuted. For example, a member of the Russian/Czech Partnership Association was killed in January of this year, the fourth killed in the war. The Russians do not accept any international criticism of the Chechen war. They claim that there is an internal conflict and that it is part of the war on terrorism. The former rapporteur of the Council of Europe, Lord Frank Judd, says he believes the Russians at this point. Nevertheless, he goes on to say that if it is true, why are the Russians in Chechnya acting in a way that is only presumptuous to drive human beings into the arms of extreme groups and other terrorists against the Russian people? If there's something we've learned about war, it's at least that it has to be handled so that the opponents lose their ability to recruit more, while the Russians actually do the opposite today. When it comes to the question of whether it is an internal matter, our penance must be clear and clear: human rights are universal, human rights violations are unacceptable, without regard to whether they have been carried out as part of a war between two nations or as part of an internal conflict. Nothing, no circumstance, can justify such abuses as one sees in Chechnya, such as killing, torture and abductions. It must be an obligation to address them with the political leaders, even if it is unpleasant or may create temporary problems for bilateral cooperation. The solution to the conflict must come from the parties involved, and it must be political. So far, little has moved in the right direction. Political developments in the last year have not led to much improvement for the civilian population, rather on the contrary. The election that led the Russian friendly Akhmad Kadyrov to power last October has little or no legitimacy. Human rights organisations owe Kadyrov their private army for committing extensive violations against the civilian population. The army, ruled by the son Ramzan Kadyrov, consists of several thousand men. The heavily armed Chechens, which the Russians have prepared, must also have brought threats to people who will not vote for Kadyrov. A peace initiative must therefore, in my opinion, come from Russia, which one must encourage at every conceivable opportunity. Russians must be reminded that gross violations of human rights cannot be accepted, whatever their purpose. The situation in Chechnya is so serious that Norway, as a nation, must do absolutely everything we can to protect the civilian population from both Russian and Chechen abuse, and support those who work to improve human rights. The Russians must be informed that this is our vision, and that we will follow it up in the international forums where possible. The war in Chechnya has been called the forgotten war. In its foreign policy outreach in January of this year, the Foreign Minister named Russia 14 times, but he did not mention the conflict in Chechnya in one word. This seems strange to me at a time when a neighboring country is involved in a conflict where people are killed every day. I don't think the Foreign Minister is taking the conflict seriously, but it's not enough to take him seriously, we have to act too. The rest of the contribution will therefore be used for some policy challenges for the Foreign Minister. It is important to address the conflict in bilateral discussions. But perhaps even more important is taking Chechnya into multilateral contexts. A good opportunity for this is the forthcoming meeting of the UN Commission on Human Rights in Geneva from 15 to 23 April. Despite the fact that Norway is not a member, we have the right to vote, to speak and to make proposals. In addition, Norway has the responsibility for coordinating a resolution on human rights fighters. In this resolution, Norway can and should both refer to the situation in Chechnya, where work on human rights is work on life as an effort. Norway should also ensure that there is a resolution on the situation in Chechnya. The last time there was a plurality for such a resolution was in 2001. The page they have been voted down. However, nothing has made a resolution less topical and necessary. A resolution should condemn the abuse and Russia's lack of ability to stop them, and require the Russians to invite and cooperate with their UN Special Rapporteurs on torture and extrajudicial executions. The major problem in Chechnya is the impunity of the attackers. Human rights are violated without penalising those responsible, and the critics are regularly subjected to new abuses. This is unacceptable. Norway must take the initiative to ensure that those who complain of abuse are protected against further prosecution. Norway has a unique possibility here. In May of this year, we will take over the Presidency of the Council of Ministers of the Council of Europe. The Council of Europe can take the initiative to systematise complaints and to provide complainants with protection in Russia or, if necessary, beyond their borders. We as neighbouring countries should also be able to take initiatives to support moderate groups and organisations in Russia and Chechnya. An application for support is already made at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' table. The Chechnya Justice Initiative helps victims of human rights to bring their cases before a court in Russia or the European Court of Justice. This work is already bearing fruit, and it should be supported further. Another organisation that does an important job is the Russian human rights organisation Memorial, which also focuses on the situation in Chechnya. If the lack of support for these and similar organisations results from missing permission from Storting, this is something that should be done clearly. In any case, we are more than willing from SV's side to allow resources, so that moderate forces in the conflict get the necessary financial resources. We know that in a conflict, the solution usually lies with the least of those we might belong to, which is the most moderate, but the new image is often characterized by those who are not. As I said, one must persuade Russia to be able to invite the UN back as an observer in the conflict. This is particularly true of the UN's Special Rapporteurs on torture and executions. Another very important actor is the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe, the OSCE. The organisation was expelled from Chechnya in December 2002, after being particularly critical of the events in the conflict. Norway should therefore work actively to establish its presence in Chechnya, with the monitoring of human rights as part of its mandate. The organisation would also be able to provide some protection for human rights defenders operating in the area. The OSCE would also be able to play another important role in putting the search lights on the human rights situation in Chechnya, in the same way that the organisation did in Kosovo. In 1998, the OSCE set up a project to investigate the human rights situation in the country. The OSCE then prepared the report ‘As Seen, As Customs’ in 1999 which documented and published the infringement. An initiative for a related report for Chechnya would at least help put pressure on the Russians and target the international searchlight against a conflict that we cannot allow to continue.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-05.ana.ud2486e1437	I agree with the interpellant that this is a serious and dramatic conflict, and that it is important for the outside world to look for opportunities to assist in finding a solution. There is a conflict that has been with us for a long time, and I think the interpellant is right in saying that international attention is not always the way it should be. Therefore, he should be commended for bringing the matter up. As he also said, it is on our bilateral agenda, and then with a strong emphasis on human rights and the need to respect human rights. It is such that Russia has a legitimate right to fight terrorism in its own country. But at the same time, we maintain that this struggle must not be done in such a way as to override fundamental human rights, and as Jacobsen said, human rights are universal. And it's not only because human rights violations are contrary to Russia's international obligations, but also because respect for human rights is crucial to a genuine and necessary reconciliation process. There has been a serious problem in this regard in the absence of criminal prosecution of Russian soldiers accused of assault. It is also necessary from Norway to stress that we are taking a great deal of distance from bombing operations, kidnappings and all other forms of terrorist activity. A solution to the conflict must be found by peaceful means and within the framework of the Russian Federation, i.e. respect for the territorial integrity of Russia. Although the safety situation in Chechnya has improved somewhat, compared to a few years ago, it remains worrying. Norway will continue to follow developments closely in the future, not least with a view to contributing in a practical and constructive way to a normalised existence for the inhabitants of the Republic. The Russian federal and local authorities have a responsibility to develop a legitimate and democratic system of governance and to create trust between the population and the powers of government. In this regard, we have noted with interest that the Russian federal authorities have initiated a process of setting up a new government for the Republic, based on a new constitution and election of executive and legislative powers. While we hope, of course, that such a process can contribute to normalisation of development, it cannot yet be said to have fallen for continued violence and terror. Measures are also in place to repair the damaged infrastructure in Chechnya. Here the international community will be able to assist in facilitating it. As part of this work, Norway has recently pledged support for a project that UNESCO will implement together with the Russian authorities with a view to rebuilding the education system in Chechnya. Russia and the Council of Europe recently agreed to implement concrete projects in the field of human rights and democratisation. We hope that projects will contribute constructively to the development of the Republic and will follow this cooperation when we take over the Presidency of the Council of Europe in May. We also hope that the OSCE will gradually have the opportunity to contribute its expertise in Chechnya. The victims of the conflict in Chechnya still need humanitarian assistance. We therefore welcome the fact that different UN bodies are assessing the possibility of more active action in this area. Norway spent 25 million years ago. kr for humanitarian aid in Chechnya, and we have spent the same amount for the current year. The majority of the amount will continue to be channelled through Norwegian humanitarian organisations. We will repeat to the Russian authorities that they are responsible for the security situation of foreign auxiliary workers. We will maintain our commitment to the Chechnya question bilaterally to the Russian authorities and to the relevant multilateral forums. Our attention will continue to focus on the situation of internally displaced persons in and outside Chechnya, especially in the neighbouring Republic of Ingushetia. The Chechen internal refugees in Ingushetia must be free to choose when to return to Chechnya without any force or pressure. We are therefore very concerned that camps for internally displaced persons in Ingushetia should not be closed as long as there is a lack of sufficient alternative housing for those who do not want to return to Chechnya.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-05.ana.ud2486e1463	I thank the Foreign Minister for the answer. I thought the Foreign Minister would meet most of the challenges, but perhaps not very enough. I had seen that he could have promised even more, said it even more concretely than that this is something he sees positively. I'm not going to ask him to promise something right now in this room, but could he even more concretely put forward in the United Nations system, where within the OSCE and the Council of Europe Norway have actually intended to do something, not least when we come to the positions I call in my main post? What kind of grip can we think of in situations where we actually have the leadership and can really take the initiative? Can he then do more than just look positive, and just take the initiative?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-05.ana.ud2486e1470	I understood that Jacobsen felt satisfied on most points, and I appreciate that. I'm not quite sure what he's after with his question – because we're doing more than looking at things! I agree that what politicians are good at is looking at things. But it's also about doing something. As I have suggested, we, in cooperation with the Council of Europe, agree on concrete projects on the ground. We're going to spend $25 million. kr together with Norwegian humanitarian organisations, providing the necessary assistance. We have given concrete support to a UNESCO project. Where perhaps the question arises first, is precisely in the case of the OSCE, and at that point I used the wording that I hoped they could contribute with their expertise. But there's the problem, as Jacobsen himself said in his main post, that the OSCE's ability to work in the area has been limited, and that there has been a conflict between the OSCE and the Russians, where we have of course thought that the OSCE should play a role. We still believe that. It is not possible to be specific there until they have the opportunity to work. But at the other points, we go in and do things. We're not just looking at it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-05.ana.ud2486e1479	I'm not going to go into the conflict on my own. I believe that the delimitation, to which both the inter-pellant and the foreign minister refer, is realistic and important. The self conflict is complicated, and it is not given to deal with it in a simple word change like this. On the other hand, it is quite clear that Russian powers have a clear responsibility when it comes to the humanitarian situation and the legal security of those in the area. I also thought that one should focus on here, and that adds up to both the Foreign Minister and the interpellant. I thought it was important that there was a trace of the further Norwegian handling of this in this context. Other aspects of this could be addressed in different contexts, but this is the most important part of this word change, in my view, i.e. helping to improve the humanitarian situation and to improve the legal security of those in Chechnya, those in the neighbouring region, those in Russia, and those out of Russia. It applies to everyone, especially to those who have taken advantage of international and national instruments to make their demands and their issues known, that they can be safe for life and health. That's why I'm not so busy with what kind of organisations are handling these issues, but they're being handled. Of the specific points mentioned here, an international representative should be able to see and participate in the processes relating to the legal aspects of this, and that there is an international presence that makes individuals somewhat secure, whether they are in Chechnya, Ingushetia or Russia, so that they can freely take up and secure their personal rights. It requires international presence, it requires international transparency, and it requires a will from Russian governance to open and democratic processes around these issues. That's why it's important, as was said here, that there are no mass deportations back to Chechnya from Ingusjetia or other places, but that a pretense that this should be a voluntary return, that those who are out of Chechnya have reasonable living conditions, and that therefore, if necessary, there is also international assistance for these refugees or internally displaced persons, so that they don't bother where they might be. Those who return to Chechnya must have legal certainty and, of course, reasonable living conditions. I think it's important that we focus specifically on this, and that one follows up these very specific areas. The conclusion of this change of words through the well-founded interpellation of the representative Jacobsen should be that there will be concrete results and no declarations about things that we can hardly have any impact on.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-05.ana.ud2486e1495	The tragic history of the Chechens until the collapse of the Soviet Union is an important background for today's situation in Chechnya. In 1991, Dudaev Chechenia declared an independent state, but in 1994 Russian forces re-entered Chechnya. As during the wars of the 1800s, the Russians, with at least ten times the size of the forces, had problems dealing with the Chechen guerrilla tactics. In the summer of 1996, therefore, the Chechen forces regained Groznyj. The Russian authorities were forced to the negotiating table. The peace agreement was in place in August 1996. Although the Chechen people had won the war, the consequences were tragic. The war had completely destroyed the country. Groznyj had been bombed together. Russia had to endure harsh criticism of gross violations of human rights. The Chechens interpreted the war as a new attempt at genocide. They remembered well what happened in 1944, when they said that the entire Chechen population of almost 400,000 was deported to Central Asia. Only after Stalin's death in 1953 were they allowed to come back. Given the enormous resources that have been sacrificed in the attempt to keep little Chechnya as a part of Russia, one might wonder what the motives for going to war have really been. One motive may have been to maintain control over the oil pipelines passing through the Republic. Furthermore, it may have been that Russia feared that the liberation of Chechnya could trigger a domino effect, so that the State of Russia would suffer the same fate as the Soviet Union. Last but not least, there is a lot of talk that the conflict had a violent outcome as a result of the poor personal relationship between Yeltsin and Dudayev. President Maskhadov, elected in 1997, was unable to build a moderate Chechen state. In 1999, there was another war. In order to create legitimacy for the new war, the Chechens were made terrorists and bandits. President Putin wanted to show that he was able to restore order and order. Chechenia became Putin's main campaign case. The image of the enemy not only provoked the Russian population about the war, but has also made it impossible to get to the negotiating table, so far. The criminalisation of an entire ethnic group has legitimized an extremely brutal warfare, where widespread use of torture and extrajudicial executions has been part of the repertoire. The intransigent Russian policy has also received its counterpart on the Chechen side. The use of female suicide bombers is a method of combat that bears witness to desperation. The relationship between Chechnya and Russia is a fascination with violent confrontations. As the Minister for Foreign Affairs has explained today, Norway is already involved in Chechnya with humanitarian aid. However, Norway should also use all relevant international forums to bring forward the Chechen crisis, so that it is not overshadowed by the other major international crises. Norway should keep an eye on the Chechen people and remind the world of the total absence of human rights in that country. If the Chechen people are forgotten, they may disappear altogether. Norway shall not allow this.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-05.ana.ud2486e1516	The interpellation of the representative, Bjørn Jacobsen, addresses important issues relating to violence, crime and human rights. In this case, Chechnya, one of Russia’s 32 ethnic, self-governed areas, is concerned. This area of 10000 km2, with approx. 800,000 inhabitants, who are in Russia, on the north side of the Caucasus, have since the dissolution of the Soviet Union been in conflict with the Federation, with a desire for liberation and independence. The most dramatic was the bloody war from 1994 to 1996, which again flared up in 1999. In my opinion, this war has not yet ended and has led to the conditions mentioned by the interpellation. To attribute blame is not easy, as it is a violation of human rights on both sides. What cannot be accepted is violence, crime and terror – to achieve what you want. This applies not only to this area, but also to many other areas in the world. Here you are at the heart of the matter. Terrorism is becoming the way some think conflicts can be resolved. Norway has to say clearly that we distance ourselves from all the abuses against innocent people. Although it is pleasant to stick your head in the sand and hope that things will pass over, one has a responsibility to point out abuse and help to resolve conflicts by peaceful means. Of course, this applies to both parties, and a good and lasting solution can only be achieved over the negotiating table where one is willing to take and give. When a peaceful solution is agreed, the time has come for both parties to join forces to fight terrorism and crime, for the benefit of all implicators. My hope is that the sad situation in Chechnya will soon end, and that we who are outside the conflict will help to do so. Here Norway can contribute by listening to both parties, addressing the problem in appropriate diplomatic forums and providing, where appropriate, mediation and assistance. This applies not only to Chechnya, but also to many other countries where internal conflicts are ongoing. Terrorism, violence, crime and human rights violations can never be accepted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-05.ana.ud2486e1527	So in our own continent, Europe, many people just disappear every month. They're being abducted. Completely fundamental human rights are violated by torture and random imprisonment. Too many people are security in their everyday life a distant dream. The interpellant takes up an important matter. One should not be allowed to deal with such matters, one must have debates that clearly show that Norwegian spending follows and has clear meanings about the fractions that the interpellation is about. It is also important that we have received as clear a response as we have received from the Foreign Minister on Norway's view of the realities of this matter. Of course, this is a Russian case, which must be resolved within the framework, but it is also necessary to point out what needs to be taken care of. As the Foreign Minister said, Russia has a legitimate right to fight terrorism. But the fight against terrorism doesn't have to be a cover to put aside basic human rights. We cannot ignore the fact that Russian military and other groups can, in fact, almost without risk of punishment, carry out such abuses in Chechnya. The reality of Chechnya is that the armed conflict continues. I have been delighted to meet the political journalist Anna Politkovskaya, who has worked to document what is happening in Chechnya. What she had to tell me, what she could document, made a strong impression. It is important that she is backed up to continue her work, and it is important that we have contact with NGOs and groups in Chechnya who are working to improve the situation. It helps Europe to follow along. We must show Russian authorities that the European family has not forgotten the situation there, and that it has a consequence to perpetuate as now. The Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe adopted a strongly worded resolution in April 2003. This suggests that the Russian regime does not do much when it comes to protecting citizens from human rights violations. Furthermore, it is pointed out that the climate of penance-freeness is the main cause of assault by Russian and Chechen forces. I'm glad that the interpellation came up, that there was a good answer from the Foreign Minister, and that the hall here clearly tells you how to view the situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-05.ana.ud2486e1542	I am pleased with the contributions that have been made in this debate, and I am at least at the moment satisfied that the Government is saying that they should take up Chechnya multilaterally, whether it is in the United Nations, the OSCE or in the Council of Europe. And then we'll see how concrete this can be in the long term. I said in my post that there should be a multilateral solution to this. But we're not going to ignore the fact that we can bilaterally think of irritating the Russians a little bit with this. We're in good contact with the Russians, we have a lot of things we're discussing with the Russians, and then it's also important to mention this thing. I think most people in Norway are very upset and shocked by what's happening in Chechnya, and then it won't hurt if both the Foreign Minister and others take this up in bilateral talks when we meet the Russians. Finally, I would like to say that we should not forget that this too is a war among many wars going on in the shadow of the great war against terrorism. We should also bear in mind that the major powers, Russia or China, or who it may be, should not be allowed to hold in their backyards with so-called small wars. One must not – if one gives acceptance to the US's warfare in other areas – legitimize small wars in relation to the big ones going on. We should bear that in mind.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-05.ana.ud2486e1551	There is not so much to add after this debate, perhaps just a few remarks for the sake of order. One is the important emphasis that this is a conflict with, like all other such conflicts, quite a number of different facets. One of the unpleasant facets of this conflict is the very use of terrorism. I hope Jacobsen's articles are not to be understood in any other way than that there is something that needs to be taken a sharp distance from anyway. It is not a legitimate instrument, but I think we all agree on that. In the case of the other thing that was said – I think it was the term ‘multilateral solution’ – the solution must be within the framework of the Russian Federation, that is. that no questions are raised about the territorial integrity of the country. What we're asking is what channels we're going to use to influence, to find a solution to this conflict that the different actors can live with. There I agree that the channels must be bilateral, but that it will also be important in broader forums to address the matter, as I mentioned in my reply.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-05.ana.ud2486e1561	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-05.ana.ud2486e1567	Before we go to voting, the President would like to make a statement.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-05.ana.ud2486e1573	On the basis of the fourth paragraph of Section 26 of the Rules of Procedure, the President will propose that the scheduled weekly programme be amended for the next week, so that the minutes of the Odelstinget shall be held on Tuesday 9 March following the end of the Grand Meeting. – No objections have been raised to the President’s proposal and it is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-05.ana.ud2486e1596	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Bjørn Jacobsen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party proposal No. 3, from Bjørn Jacobsen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party. The proposals have been converted into transmission proposals and the wording of the proposals is amended accordingly. Proposal No. 1, from the Socialist Left Party and the Centre Party, in amended form reads: ‘It is recommended that the Government cooperate with other countries to ensure that emissions from international aviation and shipping are subject to a more stringent climate regime, for example through the Kyoto mechanisms.’ Proposal No. 2, from the Socialist Left Party and the Centre Party, reads as amended: ‘It is recommended that the Government examine the basis for the possibility of proposing a global strategy for failed states in relevant international forums.’ Proposal No. 3, from the Socialist Left Party and the Centre Party, in amended form reads: ‘It is recommended that the Government examine the basis for and submit proposals for an international debt court for poor countries under the control of the United Nations.’.» These proposals are proposed for transmission to the Government without any renunciation. – It is considered biphasic.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-05.ana.ud2486e1652	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-05.ana.ud2486e1663	There is no record.
